ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12154	I thank Dr. Orlic. Dear colleagues, it is now February and I will ask questions concerning these smaller environments, such as the Municipality of Srljig, which are less than 25,000 inhabitants, as regards the Ministry of Health. Otherwise, as an MP and as a man who has been in the Assembly for eight years, I can say that Minister Loncar is one of the few ministers who has shown himself in this difficult situation when the crown is in the best way, where we as a country have managed to do the best for our people, for our patients, for our citizens. We have done new clinical centres, new institutions, and all thanks to the minister, thanks to the government and our Serbian President, Aleksandr Vukic. I've talked here many times about the problems of small environments, specifically, emergency aids. Small environments with less than 25,000 inhabitants do not have the right to have emergency services, and these environments are a wave of environments that have a large area of mountain-mounted areas. One of these is my municipality, such is the municipality of Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Bolec, Meroshin, Kursumli. There may still be a lot of such municipalities that need to form an emergency service. Back maybe two or three months I had a call from the Life-Mary Association. It was a group of people who had problems, who had a slow event, where they had trouble calling for an ambulance because of their neighbor’s problem, and the ambulance didn’t arrive or arrive with a delay, and they lost someone close to them. The "Right to Life - Mary" association has tabled a proposal here and to all our parliamentary groups and MPs, sent a letter, which they wanted to initiate certain matters related to emergency assistance in Serbia. I speak for myself here, but I also want to say that this association that's formed wants to solve the emergency problem in the best way, that at any moment you can get to every patient faster, and for those smaller environments, such as my municipality and a larger number of such municipalities, that an ambulance is formed there too. As a man, I can say that Minister Loncar accepted, I was with him at the interview, and Mr. Dejan Zejnula, who is the president of this association "The Movement of Life - Mary", where we talked to the minister, where a working group has been formed to work on improving the conditions how to improve the work of emergency aid, and normally, and in a period likely after the election, I am sure that the Serbian President will continue to do what he has done so far, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have the opportunity and capacity, that the ministry will lead the minister who will also be quality, I hope that it will be Minister Loncar, to do all this, to get in the process and to prepare the emergency law. It's something we don't have at the moment. Otherwise, the emergency law was a solution, but in the meantime, the task force formed by our Minister Loncar, the task force is working on making proposals, adopting proposals to improve emergency work, both in large centres such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, and ensuring that emergency services are done in small areas, such as those municipalities that are in southeastern Serbia and can be in any part of Serbia. We all know when it's hard, when something bad happens, when a man hurts, he starts to choke, from that moment on, we call an ambulance where he exists, and where there's no ambulance we call our home of health. Now, because of such situations, and each of us can have such a situation, we want, I'm sure that's what our country wants, and also here in the Assembly, to improve the work of emergency aid and that's what I'm going to insist on and work on in the next period. I am sure that the competent ministry, headed by the competent minister, will provide conditions, find a solution and that the next period will be passed by a law defining the work of the emergency services. Once again, distinguished colleagues, I think our country, our president and our government are doing it the best way that our citizens know it, that our citizens see it, and also a great thing for all of us, is to fight corruption, crime. Great support to our minister Vulina, who also works with his strength to protect every citizen, to protect every man, even if he lives in Srlig, the White Palanca, Tutin, Prepolje or any other place. I thank you again. My question is directed towards the Ministry of Health - will there be a solution to improving the work of emergency aid, where a task force is formed, speed up, do it, to be for the benefit of every man, anywhere he lives?
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12155	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has a national emissary, Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12156	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in front of the parliamentary group of the Duke of Hungarians, I would like to refer a question to the Ministry of Finance. On the agenda of the 16th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly, which we started yesterday, there is also a proposal for a law amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. The proposal to amend the Law stems from the need for the evaluation of accompanying technical services in state bodies to be taken to the maximum extent possible to the value of comparable transactions carried out by civil servants. In other words, the content of the amendment of the Law is a correction of the coefficients of the substitutes from the third to the sixth pay group, with the aim of moving their material position, coloquially speaking, away from minimum earnings. The jobs carried out by the tenants are security jobs, reception and mail expeditions, dactylograph jobs, suppliers, couriers and others, which contribute significantly to the smooth functioning of state authorities. The fact is that the basis for the collection of employees' salaries in state authorities has grown slower than the growth of minimum earnings. The proposed correction of the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries creates conditions for adequate evaluation of different complexities of business. The draft law amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies is supported by our parliamentary group. However, I would like to point out that the regulations governing this matter remain, for the time being, unchanged in the organs of the AP Vojvodina. In order to address this problem, which is the evaluation of different complexity and improvement of the material position of employees in the authorities and services of the AP Vojvodina, it is necessary to coordinate the legal framework that would allow it. The province's government has repeatedly launched an initiative to address this problem. The latest initiative in the form of a conclusion by the province's government was brought and forwarded yesterday, February 2nd, to the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. How is the Government of the Republic of Serbia responsible for the adoption of acts governing the salaries of employees at the level of local authorities, I ask the Ministry of Finance – will it approach the making of the necessary act as soon as possible with the aim of carrying out the appropriate harmonisation of the legal framework governing the salaries of employees in the bodies and services of local authorities with salaries for the same or comparable jobs carried out by civil servants and tenants, and how is the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies? From possible solutions, do you consider the problem more comprehensively addressed, under one, by amending the Regulation on coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries of appointed and appointed persons and employees in state bodies, which would carry out the appropriate harmonisation of the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries of employees in territorial autonomy bodies or, under two, to provide, by means of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the basics for the calculation of salaries in the bodies and services of local authorities, the possibility of increasing the basics for employees in the bodies of territorial autonomy with lower and medium professional support based on the quality and performance of work for 10% and how this possibility is defined for the specified category of employees in the units of local self-government? I would take the opportunity to appeal to the Ministry of Finance to soon find an adequate solution with colleagues from the Regional Finance Secretariat, all in order to create conditions for improving the material position of employees with lower incomes in the authorities and services of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12157	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12158	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, today I would like to refer several questions to the health minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, on the proposal of the president of our parliamentary group, Djorđa Milicevic, who is justly absent. It is a sad fact that a large number of citizens die daily from the vicious pandemic Kovid-19 and that the pandemic does not subjugate. On the contrary, the crops that are spreading faster and whose contagion is increasing. That's why it's too much of a question whether to vaccinate. Of course you should, because despite the great contagion in the vaccines, the clinical picture is milder. The greatest heroes on a daily basis are certainly fellow doctors and other medical workers. As a doctor, I know how hard and dangerous it has been to work in the red zone for life and treat the most difficult bunch of patients. Some of our colleagues unfortunately lost their lives by treating others from the birds. It is that we are bound by the Hippocratic oath. My first question concerns just those fellow doctors who lost their lives. One of the earthquake cases that upset Serbia in the previous days is the death of young state-of-the-art Anna Choporda, from Belgrade, who, despite a severe illness, was selflessly curing the covids. In the context of this sad fate of the doctor and the mother left behind by the baby, but also the fate of other deceased doctors and medical workers, I would ask the Government – is it considered that this year, too, doctors were posthumously decorated from the herds, since the previous year, the President of the Republic, in connection with the State Day, was posthumously decorated by doctors who died from the herds? I would also ask the Minister of Health – is there any possibility for doctors and other employees in the health care system to be recognised as a professional disease? I would also suggest asking the minister at the same time – is there any possibility of providing doctors with official status to provide them with certain protection at work? I also suggest that the Government's programme on building apartments under privileged conditions and such apartments are foreseen for both health workers, as has been done for members of the security forces, because health workers are heroes of this fight against the herds, and we are all grateful to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12159	Thank you. Anyone else answer for a word in this part of the session? The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12160	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have several questions on behalf of the parliamentary group today, primarily concerning Zdravko Ponos, Dragan Šolak and Vladeta Jankovic. I am referring to the question to the competent institutions of the Serbian government and Serbia's military to announce data on the destruction of Serbia's Army during the time General Ponos was the head of Serbia's General Staff and, of course, between 2000 and 2012, when DOS and other personnel were at the head of the defence ministry, whether the SCG and later Serbia. In doing so, I am looking for concrete information on how the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence have been saved, and it is in the period from 2012 to today, and that Serbian citizens clearly see how the progress of both the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence has taken place since 2012 and as regards the acquisition of military equipment, weapons, the conclusion of international agreements, the raising of military standards and the strengthening of the military in general, as one of the most important institutions in Serbia. Also, I ask the competent institutions to report all data, as regards the performance of Pogos at the time when he was Chief of Staff, as regards illegal listening to Serbia's military summit, and as confirmed by his fellow Members and those of the DS headed by the Ministry of Defence and in the period when he was Chief of Staff. Let's see how this "famous" general and Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponos wanted and listened to his colleagues, how he wanted to manage the military and how he had a relationship with the military and that simply the citizens of Serbia knew what he had done and about the destruction of Serbia's Army. Afterwards, Gilas' candidate for the President of the Republic of General Zdravko Ponos is a co-investor of the building on Vrakara in Metohijska Street. I ask the competent institutions to supply all information concerning the operation of this tycoon between the generals or generals among the tycoons – Zdravko Ponoša and, of course, to see the origin of his money and to report his family. If one of the state officials, our MPs, doesn't report his income or property in time, then he suffers from the law of a certain sanction. In the case of Gilas and Posha, it didn't happen. Furthermore, I have the next question, and as for the functioning of the yellow tycoon and Gilas's fellow worker Dragan Šolak, how did Solak become one of the richest Serbs by illegal use and usurpation of public resources? The competent institutions should deal with this and supply data to Serbian citizens, so let's see how Solak gained hundreds of millions of euros and where he got the money to buy Southampton. If an official, a politician enters the administration or assembly of a sports club, he is exposed to a pillar of shame and is forbidden to him. When it comes to Gilas' tycoon, he can buy hundreds of millions of pounds of clubs and in the prime minister's league of England. The next issue concerns Gilas' candidate for mayor of Belgrade, Vladeta Jankovic. Let's see how Vladeta Jankovic thinks she can tear down Stefan Nemanja's monument or move it to another location. It only confirms that Gilasova, Šolakova, Poposeva and Jankovic's policy is to bring down and destroy and destroy it. On the other hand, our policy, SNS policy is building, style, unification, Serbia's interest in the first place. Therefore, citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have more choices on April 3rd, but one choice is clear that citizens determine whether they are for this destructive, destructive policy of Ponos, Solak, Djilas, Jeremic and Vladeta Jankovic, or whether they are for that policy concerning Serbia's future, which is the best possible policy, President Aleksandar Vukic's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12161	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Jelena Mihailovic. We are moving on to a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 12 to 22 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Branko Ruzic, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Branislav Nedimovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister Nikola Selaković, Foreign Minister, Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Irena Vujović, Minister of Environment Protection, Tatjana Matić, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Sasa Stevanović, State Secretary, Milena Rakić and Biljana Vuksanovic, State Secretary, Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary, Milan Dobrijevic, State Secretary, Daniel Vazura, State Secretary, Ognje Popović, v.d. Assistant Minister Milutin Đurkovic and Dr Gabriela Grujic Garić, V.d. Assistant Minister Ana Tripovic, Director of Public Debt Administration Natasa Milic, V.d. Director of the Republic Water Directorate, Tatjana Stanic, senior adviser at the Customs System and Policy Sector, Dragan Babic, senior adviser at the Public Debt Administration and Stefan Dragojevic, adviser at the Ministry of Finance. I welcome the representatives of the government present. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on items 12 to 22 of the agenda. Do the proposing representatives want a word at the very beginning? Yeah. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12162	Dear chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are facing a number of draft laws on the validation of financial agreements of different kinds. Most of these agreements concern funding for infrastructure works that will take place in Serbia and are all contained under the "Serbia 20/25" programme. After the adoption of these agreements and the realisation, full implementation of all infrastructure projects, Serbia will no longer look the same in an infrastructure sense. It will be Serbia with hundreds of kilometers of new highways, Serbia with a bunch of problems solved in the environmental sector, above all I mean municipal waste dumps, the construction of sewage systems, waste water purifiers and anything that makes life of citizens more quality and which promotes the entire infrastructure potential of the Republic of Serbia. Let's go one by one bill at a time. The first refers to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank. With this ratification of the Agreement, Serbia is becoming a full member of the international financial institution. This is a specific financial institution covering both EU and Eastern countries such as Russia, Vietnam and other countries. Serbia would, if you vote to accept it, be ready to assume the role of an active member in that organisation and contribute to its work and growth. Our country's membership in this financial institution is another proof that Serbia is becoming one of the key partners in the big club of international financial institutions thanks to its good financial situation. The next bill is about confirming the loan agreement, to cut it short, about building the Moravia Corridor. The construction of the Moravian Corridor, i.e. part of Pojate-Preljina, is one of the most important infrastructure projects Serbia is conducting at the moment and the agreement we are talking about today is 400m euros. The funds will be used to build the E-761 highway infrastructure corridor. The total length of the Moravian Corridor, which is part of Serbia's 20/25 plan, which was presented nearly two years ago, is about 112km, of which Pojate-Kruševac 26.5km, Kruševac-Adrani 53km and Adrina-Mrčaevci and Mrčaevci-Preljina 30.6km. I don't need to talk about the importance of this corridor connecting Belgrade's highway -- Nis, the highway "Milos Veliki". The largest number, the largest population concentration in one area of Serbia, is right on that space, in the building space of the Moravia Corridor. I don't need to tell you how important it is for the construction of this sea corridor, first of all for the Rasinski district, for Kruševac, how important it is for Čačak, how important it is for Kragujevac, for Kraljevo, for all the large cities located in that area, and not to talk about small local communities, which, with the construction of this highway, get the possibility of fast transfer to these large highways, Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, plus the possibility of their economic development, with the opening of new industrial zones located along the highway. Not to mention the tourism potentials that can further develop with fast communication that will be achieved by building the Moravia Corridor. Another thing that is very important is that the Moravia Corridor will be the first digital highway, because along its route optical cables and digital equipment will be installed, allowing free wireless internet and the most modern traffic management system. We've never had so much investment in such capital investments in recent history. The 2022 budget has been allocated for these needs of 485.8 billion dinars. Almost never, or ever this many Serbia has invested in infrastructure. This is about 7.3% of Serbia's GDP, to be implemented into infrastructure projects. The next proposal for a law confirming the Treaty refers to the first phase of a project to collect and clean up waste water from the central sewerage system of the City of Belgrade worth 203m 775 000 euros. I don't need to talk about how important it is to protect the environment of the City of Belgrade, to preserve both Sava and Danube, as well as the final recipients who will benefit from the realization of this project. This project is projected to be implemented in two phases, to extend the facility to an area of 97 hectares. The first will include the missing infrastructure, the new sewerage station "Uštinova", as well as the reconstruction of the Mostar pump station. In the second phase of wastewater processing, it will be based on primary and secondary treatment, which will be separated in primary waterways, while nitrogen and phosphorus will be removed by advanced active mud-based procedures. These are the most modern technological processes for cities in the world, for cities of this capacity like our capital. I, you will understand, perhaps, for one reason, would especially focus on another draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is about climate resistance, but to translate it into Serbian, it is about building primary infrastructure to irrigate the accumulated lakes of Pavlovci and Borkovac in Frusko Gora. The southern slope of Fruska Gora represents and is one of the locations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia where so many modern apple plantations, modern vineyards, blueberry plantations and all other fruit cultures have been built, someone in the 1970s well designed to build artificial accumulations on the southern slope of Fruska Mountain. However, that was enough for the needs of that moment. Today, the amount of these modern orchards is thousands of hectares and they need new quantities of will, because without water in the 21st century agriculture is gone. So we're going to speed up the capacity of these artificial accumulations, and now you're going to hear how. It's quite unusual, this is phase one, and we'll go there later, according to Shid, and we'll cover that so-called. The Western Srem transverse. The same will be done in the space between Ruma and the Indji Municipality, it is already a irrigation system in the area of the Staropazova Municipality, but here for the first time from the Sava River 17 kilometers underground system, by underground pipeline we will push water through the pumping stations on the Borkovačka and Pavlovska lake because there is not enough water for new plantations. This project is being implemented through our Public Enterprise "Vode Vojvodina", we already have a building permit for this. The approval of this bill is awaited and to be put into effect. Guys, this is gonna be such a modern system, we're gonna be able to show the whole world how this works. By gravity, we will be able to irrigate new fruit plantations from the Borkovack and the Pavlovic lake for hundreds of years, not to say, almost maybe 2,000 acres. This undoubtedly encourages quantity, or more production, because to remind you, modern plantations today can, for example, apple 70, 80 tons per hectare can be offered. It used to be 20-30 because there wasn't enough irrigation, no modern agro technical measures were applied. With this irrigation system, with this amount of water, we create the possibility that literally on each plot, if the most modern production methods are applied, this amount of yields can be made. Today it's up to 100 acres going, but let's not talk about extremes now, but we're talking about averages. This is just going to be the first phase, the Pavlovac and the Borkovak Lake because they are real and the biggest. It was one idea for these two lakes to be cleaned up first, which will be done. But there's not enough water. There's not enough new outcast water. You can clean the lake as long as you want, but you don't have this water flow, and there's more fruit, and we want to have profits per hectare much bigger than we have, not to be angry with the warlords, but it's corn and wheat. Do not forget the southern slope of Fruska above, the prob Roman emperor in the second century brought the vine to the southern slope of Fruska Mountain, where he first planted the vine, and today there is no modern viticulture without a irrigation system. This phase covers these two lakes, and I'll remind you that the first phase covers the municipalities of Negotin and Svilajnac, the same thing there from the Danube gravity road to the area of Negotin region we're releasing water. There's a Danube on a higher level than the agricultural area, as I would say, higher altitudes and simple gravity water just falls. It's necessary to do new pumping stations and make new trafo stations. Also, the Svilian, the gardening end, makes sense with Morava doing it, there already the works are slowly coming to an end. The next phase is going to be, the rest of the parts where we can get out of the river in the land of Shida, now we're looking for a possibility from the Danube to transfer the water to this side of Frusche up. Maybe we'll drill through the Frusch Mountain to build a tunnel, or a pipeline that will go through the Frusch Mountain and irrigate this part of Fruska up by gravity. With the development of fruit growing tourism. With the development of tourism you saw in the crown what happened, rural tourism, house prices, right here in the Pavlovians you can't exactly find a house. Houses costing 12.13,000 euros now cost 35,000 euros just by investing in infrastructure. It's not just the Pavlovians. And so in Bishenovo, it is in Mangelos, so it is in Gugurevci, anywhere on the south slope of Fruska up, because the southern slope of Fruska up there is indeed the Lord God made, and if we know correctly that we are managing it to be a serious resource that can be seriously irrigated. Not to be a patriot's bar now to move on to the second bill of law. It concerns the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Credit Arrangement No CRS 1022 01 A between the French Agency for Development, as the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, as the Borrower for the realisation of the Solid Waste Programme in the Republic of Serbia. These are environmental projects, environmental improvements. Serbia is in such a financial condition that it can, that it has moved on to this high-level video game of economic development and that it can complete the entire projects concerning solid waste management. The total project value for regional dumps related to this story is 150m euros, from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 75, the French Agency for Development 75m euros. The project consists of two parts. The first includes building four new regional waste management centres, municipal waste. We have several of these, in Dubokje near Užica, next to Piroth, a joint dump of Sapca and Sremska Mitrovica, but these regional dumps, Kalenić, Sombor, Nova Varoš, with the existing modernisation of these existing regional dumps will give a whole new dimension to the management of municipal waste in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The implementation of the first part of the project is expected by 31 December 2027. In this second phase, it would be more phases in the management of municipal waste related to the reuse of materials, composting biodegradable waste and the use of those most likely to be in agriculture, as well as the development of a primary waste sorting system. That's what we need. That's what we talk about all the time, and without the waste selection being done on the doorstep, it's impossible to completely circle this system. That's when you have three different bins and one waste in one bucket, one in the other, one in the third in the third, so if you throw it in the counter bucket, I saw in one in Basel over there from utility companies and municipal inspectors chasing those bags who threw something to find who threw the counter-waste into what should be thrown. We're getting closer to that time. That's why we have to develop these dumps so we can get to it. We're all untrustworthy of that. We all think it'll never get there. We thought the drones wouldn't spray the agricultural surfaces, so there they sprayed to shoot everyone. Let's move on. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas. This is primarily important first for schools, for homes of culture that exist, for the development of rural tourism because today, in the 21st century, whoever is doing this is looking for the Internet. He's looking for a broadband internet, asking it to be a developed system, because today, I guess two people can't sit if they don't knock on the phone. Now, I'm simplifying this a little bit, but look, now two years ago, when we started the covid, when we started this teaching remotely, if you don't have the Internet, and we're going to make this possible for 1,200 new schools and public institutions broadband internet, if you don't have a fast internet, you're always behind, and you can't end things very quickly. Not to mention where this world goes with electronic commerce and other things, how much this will mean for our country, and that this kind of infrastructure that up until a few years ago we haven't even looked at in one way because no one thought we were going to go in at a time when we're going to study at a distance. We thought it was some film of science fiction or who knows what, but it became reality, and look how fast we moved on to that reality. The crown came, and after a month we already had a distance class. Maybe even before, I can't really talk about days right now. We also have a proposal for a law on the approval of the Treaty, called the Clean Serbia Project, aimed at building municipal infrastructure and infrastructure for the disposal of municipal solid waste. This is about 250 wastewater processing plants, seven thousand kilometers of sewerage network. This is the project "Serbia 20-25" we talked about. By adopting this bill, you will allow investments to be realised throughout the Republic of Serbia and in the smallest and largest local self-governments. We are also coming to the Fruskogorski Corridor, the draft law confirming the loan agreement for credit to build a fast traffic station Novi Sad-Rum, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender. The fast traffic station Novi Sad – Ruma, i.e. the Fruskogorski Corridor, represents one thing that many people from the space of Backa, the space of Srema fantasized about. There was always talk about that Irish curve, the elbow of the curves, which you would say in some popular series, it was always a transport problem, it was always a problem with the houses that are in the space of the traffic, with the slowness of traffic, especially when it comes to first or second snow, and then the columns come, and everything slows down. Here we will have a tunnel through the Fruška gora, a modern-made, fast-traffic which will be connected on one side to the highway Novi Sad – Subotica, which is an important international corridor, we will have a bridge near Kovilj, so a fully regulated traffic system, 85% of the value of financing this traffic station goes from this loan. The total value is 608,384,610 U.S. dollars. I would ask you in the voting day when the time comes, honourable MPs, to support these bill proposals, as we call them on ratification, so that we can implement these infrastructure projects from the "Serbia 20-25" programme. After the implementation of these projects, we will talk about another more quality Serbia, another place that is better for life, the most modern infrastructure Europe knows today. Thank you very much and I am available for all the necessary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12163	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12164	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we discussed on the Committee yesterday this set of agreements on the agenda and what we can say unitedly, it is that, in addition to eight agreements that are directly financially conditioned agreements with international institutions, in order for many strategic projects to end in this year, which have been defined by the budget, we have three other agreements that are of great importance. At this point, it should be said, it is the establishment of an International Investment Bank, where Serbia was accepted at a session on 8 December last year to be a member of that international institution because these are countries that are in the region, such as Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and Russia. The headquarters of the International Investment Bank is in Budapest, Hungary and 10 years ago, according to ministry assistants, this international institution, or caught an investment step in the world, which showed a great ability to finance very large projects, not only in the region but also in the European Union. It is one of the international investment institutions of Central and Eastern Europe. So it is important that Serbia became a member of it. We here ratify our membership in this international institution and we think it's the future that awaits us. To simply build roads, infrastructure is practically our daily job in the coming years. That's what we see from these suggestions. So credits for the Moravia Corridor, for the Fruskogorski Corridor, for the municipal infrastructure, for a broadband area that refers to the internet in rural areas, but we see large projects in the field of environmental protection. All those who are telling a green story so far should, in fact, support such projects that Serbia is doing, and that is primarily the part that concerns the collection and treatment of waste water and sewers that will be in Belgrade, then climate change resistance, as well as the regulation of solid waste through certain dumps. In addition to these agreements, we also have an agreement relating to the establishment of a training centre for dual education, but also to the protocols of the SAA that we have already had and discussed, relating to products of origin, to facilitate and facilitate the practical export of our products to the countries of the region, but above all to the EU. So we believe that in today's major investment investment days, especially when many EU countries are struggling to come up with the consequences of Kovid last year and the pandemic still under way, Serbia thinks there is no reason to worry, because only such strategic investments are a safe path to the future that will give high growth rates. We had 7.5% last year, for this year it is projected by a budget of 4.5% of growth and what is in fact a guarantee of higher salaries and pensions, a higher standard of our citizens, is in fact that this programme that we presented to the citizens "Serbia 20-25" is very real and feasible. And with that, I think everyone here will be in front of the citizens when the elections come and say what are all these concrete projects that we're talking about today, which will give us and our children better tomorrow. That is why, as well as the Committee, we call on the Members to vote in favour of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12165	Thank you. Anyone else from the board of directors want a word? Do the presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The president of the parliamentary group Samir Tandir has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12166	The esteemed chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, respected representatives of the Ministry, citizens and citizens, the SPP parliamentary club and the USS will support legal solutions in the voting day, as all loans and laws we are talking about today will essentially affect the improvement of the lives of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Before I look back at the legal solutions myself, I want to remind myself of what was done or what had to be done in order to talk about these topics today. In the past year, someone liked it or not, the figures, statistics, the facts say that we had a 7.5% economic growth and that this is due to the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, the SPP supports the government of the Republic of Serbia. We are proud of the fact that the biggest challenge since World War II, the global pandemic, has been passed by protecting primarily citizens, invested a lot in our country's health system, but we have also preserved jobs and preserved our economy. The programmed economic growth this year is a minimum of 4.5%, and these are indicators that are a prerequisite for these loans that we are talking about now, because no one would give us money, no one in us would see a serious partner, that we do not have economic growth and that we do not have that as a guarantee that we will be able to make all obligations towards international creditors, to international partners in time to serve. Also, in the last year when we adopted the budget for this year, we predicted an increase in both salaries and pensions, we ran a socially responsible policy, especially for healthcare professionals, we have one-time assistance both towards healthcare professionals and towards pensioners. So these are indicators that say that our country's economic system is healthy, stable and that we can then enter into one investment cycle, and these are the laws that we're talking about today. I want to point out that the infrastructure is something that the Justice and Reconciliation Party has always insisted on, especially the rickety president of Mufti Muamer Zukorlic. Part of our coalition agreement with our SNS partners never concerned the position, I don't know, the function, etc., was always about the vision of making this country the best place to live. That's why what I must especially stress because of the truth is that the rickety mufti Zukorlic never fought for the function primarily for himself, but only for the projects, and primarily for the projects concerning the part of the country where we come from, and these are the Sanjak municipalities. What I can happily say is that by September 1st of this year, Novi Pazar and Tutin will have the pipeline, and in a year and a half Prepolje, Pryboy and Nova Varoš, they will also get the pipeline. When we meet this infrastructure precondition, then we won't have a problem talking about investors. Investors will come alone, so we'll give them a prerequisite, we have a political one stability, we have a clear state policy, we have economic growth, and when we make infrastructure, like the highway, like the railway, like the pipeline, and it's all completely unimaginable to us five or ten years ago, and it's very often spoken in our municipalities, in Sandzak, never the highway from Požega will go any further, because there is such a single policy, and that's the highway to Požega. I would like to remind you that during his visit to Sjenica, Novi Varoša, Tutin and Novi Pazar, President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic signed an agreement in Sjenica that envisions construction, the construction of a highway from Požega towards the Montenegrin border. The value of the investment is a billion and 500m euros minimum. So it's a new 75km highway. I want to congratulate both the President and the Government and us and all the citizens of the new 11.5km from Preljina to Pakorraqa. So, Chuck's going around, it might seem a little small to someone, it might seem a lot to someone, but trust me, who we're going down that highway is life to us. That man who has not been through Cačak during the summer season for the first holiday, the New Year's holidays, that is best known to citizens and citizens in Chačka, of course, but all of us who travel to know this route for a few hours, especially on the Preljina payment ramp to last. Now we're solving that problem. It will simply affect not only the development of the economy, but also the development of tourism and when it comes to Zlatibor and when it comes to Zlatar and Prijepolje and Pestarska visorvan, but also this second leg when we talk about the Moravski Corridor loan will affect the development of our spas, Kopalnika, as the largest winter tourist center. What I especially want to point out is that when we talk about broadband. So the end of where I come from is a mountain-mounted area, and it's very important that we invest in broadband. We talk very often about the development of the village, about the rest of the young people in the country, we can't do it if these people, primarily young people and their families, don't do everything we can to make sure that they can stay in the country. Mostly when it comes to education, because as much as any of us likes, I don't know, my village, my hometown, but children are what you very often refer to as migration. Because you want to give your children the best possible education and the best living conditions. It is up to us both as parliament and as someone who supports executive power, and primarily the executive authority to make it possible for these people, regardless of whether they are in the mosquito area, the Cave, the Shumadi, the Vojvodjan village, to allow conditions for people not to leave their home area, their birth group so that they can have adequate education and in this case the broadband internet. Excellent, Deputy Prime Minister, you also spoke of broadband as a chance to develop tourism. It's very important when it comes to where I come from. We're simply a mountain end and a major accent, we don't have five-star hotels, but we're dealing with the development of tourism and then the accent is placed on rural tourism. Now, if you want to develop rural tourism on the Cave, if you want to develop villages around Prepolje, Kamena Gora, the mosquito region, the Apple or the Novvaro area, Zlatar, we need to have a broadband internet and I think that this law that we are voting on today, this loan, is essential to help these people and these rural households who are trying, pioneering ventures work on the development of rural tourism, to provide them with certain conditions. As for loans related to waste management, it also concerns the Banjica dump at Nova Varosha. It's something you absolutely need to support. I want to say that the Justice and Reconciliation Party since its founding, but even before we were activists, we fought for environmentalism in our country, we stopped, in co-operation with citizens, building, on their request, during the former government in 2009 and 2010 construction of the "Brodarevo 1 and 2" hydrocenter. We have always insisted that there must be a balance between economic development and ecology. So, we didn't start to deal with the ecology of the moment when, by the looks of it, environmental activists didn't give us permission for a little hydrocentrale, so you became an environmental activist from some rage, but we're essentially dealing with this problem. What I also want to point out, and it's very important, is the problem of irrigation. When it comes to Vojvodina, when it comes to the southern slope of Fruska above, it is known what agricultural potential that part of our country has. However, we are not all from the southern slope of Fruska up, nor from Vojvodina, and I absolutely support this, but what is very important to us is to look back a little on the Cave, on the New Year's End, you know that there were people there who had a problem with livestock and irrigation. It simply may not belong to a group of priorities right now, but my duty as a MP coming from that part of our country is to point to that problem. Prefield, Priboj is an area known for its malin plantation. Part of the municipality, like the mosquito neighborhood of Nova Varosh, is watering cubes. These may not be large funds, such as these here, but they are important for continuing agricultural production and for one, how do I say, systemically solving their problems. So I would use your presence to introduce you to this and appeal that in the next period and solve it. As I said, in voting day, our parliamentary group will support these legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12167	I would like to thank the president of the Parliament Group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the United Peasant Party. I assume the Deputy Prime Minister wants to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12168	Dear Chairman, I'm just going to take a brief look at this issue of the Cave and about the Novovaro municipality. In this contract is the story of irrigation the area of Fruska up, and besides that, we finance this year the cave water that connects Sjenica and Tutin and where we have allocated about a million and a half euros this year to finish the whole story, and if everything is okay with the local self-governments of Tutin and Sjenica, we end everything right, I expect in the autumn, that is, for the next winter that we have no more water supply problems. Not only with the construction of master water and primary water, but also with connections to the village and to the houses. We have all agreed with representatives of the Municipality of Sjenica, with the municipality of Tutin. The other thing, when we talk about the Novovarosk municipality, we are currently funding a water supply project in Bozici. It's one of the most populated villages in the area, with a huge amount of cattle stock. The state, along with local self-government, is funding it, and that should be over by six months, and then we move on. Let's go one village at a time. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12169	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12170	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I expected that answer and that is why our party is partnering with the Serbian Progressive Party and other coalition partners. It is a policy to address the specific problems of people, regardless of whether they are in Belgrade, whether they are located in Bozici, whether they are located at the Cave High. I am really proud that we fellow Members of our parliamentary group and I voted in favour of this budget, which will solve this decades-old problem. If that were easy to solve, it wouldn't have been waiting for us. However, it was extremely difficult to solve, but when we have one responsible local community, when we have a responsible ministry and when we have one vision and politics at the top of the state, which treats all citizens and citizens as equal, it is possible to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12171	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Jasmina Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12172	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. Dear Minister Nedimovic, respected members of the agriculture, co-workers and fellow MPs, we are talking today about the funds needed to build and complete large infrastructure projects, i.e. the means to continue highway construction through Serbia, to improve the environment, improve agriculture, the means needed to build a wide-ranging infrastructure in rural areas of Serbia that still have no good or no internet at all. These are all projects that facilitate life and raise the standard of living for citizens, whose realisation requires huge financial resources. In Serbia, around 1,300km of modern traffic, eight highways and 16 fast roads are being designed and built at the moment. We must remember that the 2022 current budget for these purposes provides for as many as 486 billion dinars and that investment in capital projects represents one of the carrying pillars of our economy's development. A few days ago Milos Velika highway was opened from Preljina to Pakovra, and by the end of the year a complete portion of the highway to Požega will be completed. You had a chance the first day after this stock was opened to see that twice as many vehicles went through the loading ramp of the Pack than through the Prelin. That's the best indicator of how important this stock is. The opening of this section is also of particular importance because it will reduce the crowds created through Cačak on the way to Zlatibor and Montenegro and waiting on the payment ramp in Preljina, and it will now be carried by only vehicles heading towards the King and further towards Novi Pazar. Also, the importance of this highway is that the cities of western Serbia will get closer to Belgrade, i.e. much faster and safer will reach Belgrade from Požega, Užica, Luciana, Ivanjica. This time, it will also contribute to the greater development of tourism in western Serbia, as much less time will be spent to get to Zlatibor, Tara, Zlatara, Uvac, Ovčar Banje, or Ovčar-cablar cuneurs in which the state also invests significant funds and which, together with the mountain Kablar, there are increasingly more visited and more significant tourist destinations. The construction of this section of the highway removes traffic from Ovcar Banja, i.e. reduces traffic traffic on one of the most dangerous shares along the West Morava and Lake Medavrje, which has taken many human lives as well as the Ibar highway. There could be a lot more talk about the importance of Milos Veli highway that will allow much more investment in this part of Serbia, but it is important to mention the other roads that are being built through our country at the moment. On the highway Milos the Great will also reach the highway from Požega to Duga Poljana further towards Bolar, i.e. the border with Montenegro. The road will pass through Ariel and Ivanjica, and that share will begin to be built in March this year. This time it will go over the Cave and it is vital for the inhabitants of Sjenica, Tutina and Novi Pazar, which will be only 20 kilometers to the highway. The highway will mean a faster, better and safer connection with Belgrade, tomorrow with Montenegro and Sarajevo, but also better conditions for the arrival of investors and remaining young people in those areas, which have huge potential both in the area of tourism and in the production of healthy food. The start of construction of this section of the highway was also announced by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic during a recent visit to Sjenica and Novi Pazar, speaking of the importance of this road and the huge potentials of the country's region. We today need to confirm the loan agreement relating to the construction of the Moravia Corridor from Preljina to Pojat. These are huge investments, and no country can financially handle building this number of highways from its own resources at the same time. We need to understand that. It is therefore important to confirm this contract that will allow for the completion of the 112km highway that will pass through the Royal and Kruševac and connect the corridors 10 and 11, but also 500 000 people living along the route of the future highway. What is characteristic and why more important is the Moravski Corridor is that this will be a modern highway, it will have a flood defence system that will protect all places along the entire highway, and this direction will be fully digitised, because along the route it will set optical cables and that will enable the digitisation of that part of Serbia, which will be a good signal and a great basis for investors to invest in this country's neighbourhood. Today, we also have confirmation of the loan agreement for the construction of the fast traffic station Novi Sad – Ruma, i.e. the Fruskogorski Corridor. This route is important in economic terms, because it will link Vojvodina to the western and northwest parts of Serbia, to Sapac, Loznica, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is also important because it will solve the huge problem of passing freight vehicles and trucks across Fruska Gora and through Irig, where one of the busiest and most crowded traffic in Serbia is currently passing through the tunnel. Not to mention the problems in the winter period, when if a truck gets in the way of the Irish wreath, then there's a complete collapse. By building this fast traffic station, such problems will be the past. Experts stress that a huge number of trucks and cars passing this route also have a significant impact on the environment, i.e. air pollution, and that the pollution problem will be successfully solved by breaking through the tunnels and will benefit from the conservation of the environment of Fruska Gora. This fast traffic station, as I said, will bring multiple benefits, from reduction of pollution, reduction of traffic congestion, to faster and safer travel. It is therefore important to confirm the agreement ahead of us with the Chinese Export-Amport Bank, so that this fast traffic station is completed in early 2024, as planned. We also need to confirm today a few loan agreements for funds to improve the environment that has taken a high place on the list of priorities of this government. One of these contracts concerns funds from the Chinese arrangement for the first phase of collection and treatment of waste water, i.e. the construction of collectors, followed by the construction of the first wastewater treatment plant in Belgrade, in Velika Sel. The project is of enormous importance to Belgrade, which is dropping all its wastewaters in Sava and Danube and is the only city in Europe that does not have a wastewater treatment system. It's not fast, it's not a simple job, it takes both time and huge money. The figure of several billion euros is even cited, that Belgrade fully solves the problem of waste water and sewers over the next decade. This is a project of exceptional importance, because it is a question of the environment and better quality of life of citizens, and that is why this arrangement with China is important, because building the first and largest of the five planned wastewater treatment plants by 80% will reduce wastewater emissions in Sava and Danube. We here today also have several arrangements between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the French Agency for the Development of Solid Waste Management Programmes. These are important projects, and it concerns the construction of eight regional waste management centres that will take care of and select waste from 30 cities in Serbia. Building a centre in Kalenic is planned to provide waste from 11 units of local self-government, Sombor, which includes five units of local self-government, Duboko nine, Novi Varosa with four units of local self-government. Then, in the second phase, the construction of the centre in Piroth, Pozarevac, Indjija, Sremska Mitrovica was planned. These funds are also intended for the purchase of containers and vehicles for the transport of garbage, which is currently one of the weakest kari, since local self-government often lacks sufficient number of vehicles or are mostly a few decades old. The importance of such waste management is also reflected in the introduction of a practice of sustainable management of solid waste through the construction of sanitary dumps, the construction of a facility for the reuse of materials, composting plants and the primary sorting of waste. So this project aims to address the burning challenges in the solid waste sector across Serbia. I'm just going to do a little depression and give an example that at the end of last year, together with my colleagues from the Green Parliament Group, I stayed in Slovenia for a study visit. There we visited their waste processing centre that processes two-thirds of the waste that generates all of Slovenia and 43 municipalities from Slovenia takes waste to the centre. The centre cost 155m euros. People in Slovenia have told us that no state is able to finance such an investment from its own resources and that 70% of these funds are secured from EU funds. This system is sustainable and it is financed from the money citizens pay for waste disposal, then, this centre itself produces the gas needed to launch this centre, so it is self-sustainable, as future recycling centres in Serbia will be. By building such modern and modern centres, we fully meet the standards that apply in EU countries and I therefore expect that MPs will support these agreements. It is important for the end to say that I will give full support to these, but also to all contracts that are on the Parliament's agenda today, as they concern investment in infrastructure, which is the best driver of economic growth and GDP growth. My parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, will support these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12173	I thank the authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12174	Respected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected Minister Nedimovic and his associates, respected fellow MPs. Today we are discussing a series of agreements with relevant European financial institutions related to the financial support of major infrastructure projects, such as the project of the Moravski Corridor Pojate-Preljin, such as the Fruškogorska Corridor of the shares of Novi Sad-Rum, as well as projects related to ecology, such as the project of building a wastewater treatment system in the city of Belgrade, such as projects of solid waste management, but also of course such as projects that are important for agriculture, such as projects for watering southern coasts and slopes of Fruška gora, i.e. northern Srema. These are all important infrastructure facilities. A unique Serbia believes that the development of infrastructure is a basic precondition for Serbia's economic development, and that Serbia's economic development must be monitored by both adequate and appropriate environmental protection policies and therefore, in the voting day, we will support all these agreements. We are witnessing strong economic growth and Serbia's development in the last decade, even at the time of the coronary pandemic of the virus. Serbia registered economic growth more than 7% in 2021. The current rate of duty of the Republic of Serbia is 51.7%, well below the level of Mastricht and therefore we are the country that is the leader of the region. It is known that on December 10th, the well-known rating agency Standard and Poor's confirmed Serbia's BB plus credit rating, with positive prospects. Serbia's credit rating is extremely stable, with growth trend. I can say we're one step away from getting an investment credit rating. Of course, the consequence is that in 2021, we had 3.5 billion foreign direct investments again, and we also have leaders in the region, and thanks to that fact and the fact that such a situation is back years ago, we managed to bring unemployment down. Let me remind you that there was over 25% unemployment there in 2011, and that today below 10%, or currently at around 9%. The Republic of Serbia, according to the IBM Global Location Trends report, has been a world leader for years back by the number of job openings, seen according to population. They're all great economic indicators. The prerequisite for this trend to continue is the country's strong infrastructure development, in all its parts, which is a prerequisite for even regional development, and for what we in the Single Serbia are particularly in favour of. During his arrival in Jagodina in 2004, Dragan Markovic Palma began an economic rebirth, so to speak, of Jagodine with a minimum of 12,000 employees. How do you minus 12,000 employees? It was this number of people who were fired from 2000 to 2004 by bad business in the cable factory, Moravi, Palasa, brewery and other businesses, and so many people were practically out of work. When he persistently, persistently and traveling everywhere he heard of a potential investor in this way brought in 12 foreign investors, opened two industrial zones and created conditions to employ thousands and thousands of people, we today practically in Jagodina even have a problem with the workforce for certain activities and constantly open ads and competitions for job openings. From that devastated town, we came to the conclusion that Fisher, the fifth company in power in Germany, opened one factory last year, and here he will be building and opening another factory where another 600 young people will be employed. In addition to all these, and we see that factories are opening up everywhere in Serbia, we can see and we could see in the past few months some people who at the Sava Center, breaking the Constitution and the right to freedom of movement and all the laws, block the highway. And what is their biggest transparency during these protests? Their biggest transparency was "Investors, get out". So that means "Fisher" - march out, "Boss", "Mischelin", "Simens", "Panasonic", "Continental" - march out, "Fiat Chrysler", "Svarovski", "Aunde" - march out. Will the citizens of Serbia vote for such a policy? Of course not. Serbia will not return and Serbia's citizens will not allow Serbia to return to those who over-indebted Serbia, who brought Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy, which left tens and tens of thousands without work and existence. Citizens want Serbia that is perspective, Serbia that is employed, economically strong, because only economically strong Serbia can be independent and its Serbia. This is why these infrastructure projects are very important, from the highway from Pojat to Preljina, etc. The Moravia Corridor, which is the state path of the first A order and has a very significant role to play for the development of the Republic of Serbia. This route plays a role in connecting this area with the E75 highway and with the Belgrade-South Adriatic E763 highway and with ports in Montenegro, with the Bar port, with southern Italy, etc. It will connect large cities such as Kruševac, Kraljevo, Cačak and the rest of western Serbia, which will make the region in which a very large number of people live an investment and economically more attractive region. Along with the construction of the highway, hydrotechnical planning of the West Morava River will be dealt with in parallel, which will also pose a minor threat to floods and other natural disasters. Of course, there will also be a digital corridor, and this area will not differ from any other part of Serbia. And that's a real example of even regional development. When it comes to a project to build a wastewater treatment system and main sewerage lines in the city of Belgrade, the project is essential to preserve the environment. Belgrade went to the rivers, "Belgrade on Water" was built, that part of the city is an elite part of Belgrade and can compete for the beauty and functionality of any other world metropolis. That's good. But in order for all of this to be even better, in order for Belgrade, apart from Sava and Danube, to be truly elite, is necessary, this wastewater treatment system and not only this project, but all of these similar and similar projects should be done throughout Serbia, because they are important for the preservation of a healthy environment, for clean waters and are one real, real and true environmental policy. Jagodina has a long-standing wastewater treatment system since 1993, but we are now building a new, modern wastewater treatment system, along with a German development bank, a 22m-euro project that includes, apart from the new, modern wastewater treatment system, the construction of sewers in the villages of Ribara, Rakitovo and Končarevo, which protects the well area and only the water spring near the river Morava. Along the way to say that we've reconstructed that water source, expanded the original capacity, built new wells, but we've also done all the highways from the spring to the city, and in the city, we've replaced the entire system of pipes, we've removed old asbestos pipes from the new, cleaner and greener pipes, so there's a big job done. We are facing agreements that also involve managing solid waste. Serbia is working to solve the problem of wild dumps, working on building regional dumps, and it is certainly good and also real green policy, environmental protection policy, and not some ecological demagogy that we can hear on the streets. As far as Jagodina is concerned, she has built among the first regional dump "Gigos", a tenkm away from Jagodina and a recycling centre. The regional dump extends to an area of 15.5 hectares and the volume is about two million cc's of waste. The duration is about 20 to 25 years old, while a recycling centre that employs 20 workers processes about 25 tons of waste material a day. About eightm euros were invested in the project. In this way, a decades-long ecological bomb was solved in Jagodina, because we had a dump that was only a few hundred meters away from the city center, not to say a half mile away, and that is, once again, the real, real environmental or green policy, not the ecological demagogy we can hear lately, trying to place citizens on the streets. When it comes to the Srema irrigation project, it is a good project and such projects, ministers, we have to work everywhere in Serbia. Because, to be realistic, since the construction of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav system, there have been no capital projects in irrigation, and this is a necessary prerequisite for intensive agricultural production. For our country, characterized by highly variable climate conditions, where rainfall is very variable and varying from year to year, irrigation is an important factor in increasing and stabilising agricultural production. The application of irrigation gives high production results, and the economy of investment in irigation systems indicates that this measure should be given priority in agricultural production. In fact, irrigation can stabilise, i.e. increase food production and the existing development of livestock, processing and other sectors of agriculture. As you know, ministers, in the composition of the irrigation system, other buildings are being built, which can directly or indirectly affect the development of the economy and standards of the population, but while we're already here at agriculture, I'd only like to do one little digression and to appeal that the state, as far as possible, is responding to the fact, and often we agricultural producers, have been signalling, in the last few days, a terrible collection of artificial fertilizers, that the urea has been collected from 2,200 dinars, at 6,000 dinars for a 50kg bag. Secondly, let's say that fruit fertilisers are 35,000 per 70,000 per tonne, and we try to intervene on the market somehow, to stop that growth and prevent it. To conclude, JS, in contrast, JS is for Serbia being built, for Serbia being created, and these agreements are aimed right at building and creating one better and stronger Serbia. These agreements are for the benefit of the citizens, and that is why we will support these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12175	I would like to thank the deputy president of the JS parliamentary group. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12176	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, citizens of Serbia, we are talking about a package of credit arrangements proposed by the government and will definitely be decided by the National Assembly on the day of the vote. They are intended primarily to realise the start of infrastructure projects, as well as new projects to realise, above all, Serbia's development goals. That's why I think we can and must put these loans into developmental loans, not consumer loans at all. So, there are several loans related to infrastructure projects in the area of traffic, and we are facing loans also related to so-called. A circular, or green economy, which is part of, above all, a green agenda. To remind myself that by opening Cluster 4 which includes the Green Agenda, which is part of Chapter 27, which is the protection of the environment, we have taken the obligation to bring our planet Earth much faster and more actively, first of all to bring economic development into line with the requirements of the conservation of the environment, i.e. to realise the global goals of sustainable development, in order to preserve our planet Earth, from further destruction, in which, unfortunately, man plays a key and key role. Serbia has defined itself as a member of the UN, for the concept of sustainable development, and part of this is certainly a waste management policy, which is one of the great polluters sincerely and should be recognised as a green agenda, that environmental and environmental protection, and responsible management of natural resources is extremely expensive. In this context, I personally observe the loans Serbia is taking, above all, for the realization of several projects, or programmes. We are talking above all about a climate-resistance and irrigation programme in Serbia, which is in phase 2 as well as a solid waste programme, which will be financed from two sources. Waste management in Serbia has been regulated by law, and the implementation of the law requires significant investments, as it is not only about waste disposal in a safe way, but also recycling, i.e. waste observation, as raw materials in so-called waste. The circulatory economy, which we have not had as a practice so far, for example for energy production, the problem of storage and recycling of solid waste is our big problem and its resolution must be both strategic and long-term, and this really requires huge financial resources. What is important, when the recycling centres are finished, they will be largely self-sustainable. One debt for the European Development Bank's solid waste programme, amounting to 75m euros, and another loan of the same amount from the French Development Agency, and both are intended specifically to build four regional waste management systems in Sombor, Novi Varoša, Duboko and Kalenić. The third loan from this group that Serbia is taking, which is secured by the Chinese financial corporation, is intended for a major project to collect and clean up waste water from the central sewerage system of the city of Belgrade. The problem with wastewater seems to me to be one of the biggest problems of the modern era and is nothing new if we say that Belgrade has a problem with it and that it has a problem. In the future, unfortunately, the whole world can monitor, primarily the issue of water supply and wastewater treatment. Serbia, unfortunately for us, today uses drinking water for technical purposes as well. Belgrade as one major metropolis is a great consumer, and thus an unequivocally large wastewater producer that is not being cleaned into our two largest rivers. This further pollutes the clean waters of our rivers, and therefore it is extremely important to systematically resolve waste sewage treatment in Belgrade, which will be done precisely by a project that Belgrade will implement with the help of this loan. When it comes to loans for infrastructure projects, I would refer to a loan relating to a 400m-euro loan that will be used by the Serbian corridors, for the purpose of building a section of the highway E-761 Pojate – Preljina, known as the Moravski Corridor. Construction of this corridor, and it's not the first time we've talked about it, in the length of 112.3 kilometers, started at the end of 2019, and its completion will be one big relief for Western Serbia's traffic communications with the rest of the state, because this part of Serbia will have to be highlighted by the huge natural and economic resources associated with Corridor 10. As it is said at the opening of works on this route, the Moravski Corridor will be more than a highway because it will have an integrated flood defence system, which is the first such system in the Balkans. The second loan refers to the project of building a fast traffic station Novi Sad – Ruma, i.e. It's a French corridor. The Republic of Serbia is borrowing from China's Export-Import Bank of $608m to provide funds for the realisation of this important project because, I'm sure, our friend Mrka, who unfortunately is no longer among us, said it was important to build roads and railways without them, we would be cut off from the world and from each other. It is these two infrastructure loans that allow for timely and no financial difficulties to end traffic to be started, which should contribute to an even better and faster connection between these parts of Serbia and Corridor 10, i.e. with all neighbouring countries, above all. Serbia's transit position will be more adequately valorised with better traffic, which will ultimately mean higher revenues, not only than transit traffic, but also a better business and tourist position for Serbia. I will also look back at another important loan project, which is investing in a training centre for dual education, in Belgrade and Vrsac. In particular, this investment refers to the creation of space-technical training conditions in the field of civil aviation, which will cover all young people interested in this type of business. Serbia has so far been known for the Vrsac Pilot Academy as a prestigious and primarily internationally recognised educational centre in the area of civil aviation that ended, if the data are correct, more than 2,500 pilots. Since May 2021, the academy has therefore become the authority of the Ministry of Education and has become the first national school of civil aviation and is immediately involved in a dual education system. For these reasons, training centres in Vrsac and Belgrade need to be well equipped and adequate conditions for dual education that can also be attractive for foreign students, which can certainly bring to Serbia both significant financial revenues from foreign education. In this sense, the project loan on which the National Assembly will declare itself will have a full effect, since every investment in education is an unequivocalally the best investment in the future of society. I will also refer to another draft law, which is a law confirming the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank, which is very important to me. In fact, the Republic of Serbia has decided to join this significant international institution that enjoys a large international rating. It specializes in medium- and long-term financing of projects aimed primarily at supporting Member States' economic development and a positive social, economic and environmental impact. At the same time, the International Investment Bank offers direct funding and credit in partnership with other financial institutions, as well as through partner banks, of course. The International Investment Bank's membership today is, I would say, not a small negligible state, such as the Russian Federation, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Cuba, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, the Slovak Republic, so it is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia to become a member of this prestigious international institution. In this regard, indeed as a parliamentary group of SPS, we support the confirmation of an agreement that will ensure Serbia's status as members of this bank. In the end, let me conclude, how much to accept a proposal like this, which means additional borrowing, these are loans that will be profitable first, because, as I said at the outset, it concerns infrastructure projects and environmental protection projects. On the other hand, when you start implementing these projects, you can unequivocally say that the state is financially and economically fully stable and that it can plan in the long term and thus be in debt to improve the status of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12177	Thank you. The word has the power of representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, the National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12178	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, as we have the opportunity to see Serbia will end this mandate, practically by ratifying an agreement that represents an investment step in the future with which Serbia has practically won as a result of the past ten years of hard work. I remind you that in 2012, Serbia was one step towards an economic ambition in which it was a question of whether the state would pay off its pension within 15 days to its pensioners, whether they would pay for healthcare workers, educational workers. After these difficult moments in which Serbia fell when the Serbian Progressive Party led Alexander Vukic took the responsibility of leading the state, after all the reforms and the difficult measures that we had implemented at the time, today we can say that we could not talk at all about a major investment momentum that was not such a difficult reform and such a responsible policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party at that time. You will remember that in 2012, there were over 16 political options in this House. Of course, it is the citizens of Serbia who are in 2014. 2016, 2017 and 2020 were defined precisely as a policy of progress, as they saw in Alexander Vukić a policy that would bring improvement to themselves and to their families. Anyone who went to the polls, whether it was defined for Alexander Vukic or not, had a responsibility to make decisions about what Serbia would look like today, in 2022, but also what it would look like tomorrow, in 2025 and 2030. Today, when we talk about these important contracts and agreements, we have to say that Serbia today, when we talk about road infrastructure, looks completely different. So Serbia is building 12, making fast traffic, making highways, which corridors that didn't exist at all in 2012. Today, when we talk about the infrastructure in this municipal part being very important and that Serbia is developing and that Serbia is completely different from 2012, we can responsibly say that there was only research at that time, as far as local self-government does not exist and there is no urban, municipal infrastructure that respects high standards of environmental protection and when we talk about the fact that broadband Internet is actually something that is a way of functioning in the world at all, that digitalisation didn't exist and in 2012, and today we're talking about the second stage of the introduction of a broadband telecommunications network in rural areas, so we're talking about villages, then we're talking about a completely different Serbia 10 years ago and today. When we compare it then we see that it's really important who runs the country, that it's important when you have responsible politicians when they lead both foreign and domestic policies in one extremely responsible way. Why? Because if we're talking about foreign policy, you have to create conditions as a leader, as a statesman, that you can attract foreign direct investment from both east and west. If you define yourself for any option, you simply, at that moment, limit a number of investors who do not want to or do not want to come precisely for these reasons because you have limited your specific foreign policy towards certain countries. That's what I'm talking about right now for those of you who stand for the West so much, and on the other hand, they don't want to talk to the East. On the third hand, when you have those who want to co-operate with the east, they don't want to go west, then at that point you punish your citizens of Serbia for a high standard, for such good results, and that's what we're talking about today. We're talking about citizens' interests, that they have developed infrastructure. Today, we all forgot, simply, to travel modern highways such as "Milish the Great", that today we will no longer take the Ibar highway, but rather define ourselves for the Milos the Great highway, but tomorrow, after two or three years, we will talk about going to Novi Sad on a fast track, a train that will connect Belgrade and Novi Sad in 30 minutes. We are talking about the Moravian Corridor being a major link in Serbia in a few years, many places that we could not even dream of today being able to carry out the traffic of goods and services to these corridors. We're talking about the Frushkogorian Corridor and these are today in these agreements somewhere and the biggest agreements we're talking about. We are talking today about a 400m-euro Moravian Corridor and a 400m-euro contract, a French corridor worth almost $608m, a municipal infrastructure worth over 200, means 203.4m euros, a broadband infrastructure in villages, a project of about 100m euros. When we talk about the area of environmental protection, we are also talking about the collection and treatment of waste water and sewerage networks of 203,775m euros, which will be invested in the City of Belgrade. Then, we are also talking about climate resistance and irrigation, which is also an area of agriculture, after all, here is Minister Nedimovic, of 15m euros. We're talking about the recovery and formation of solid waste stations, which will be in local self-government. These are two projects from two international different organisations. One is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the other is the French Development Agency, of 15m euros. So here is the indication that both from the East and from the West, international financial institutions are very interested in funding such strategically important projects. We are also talking, of course, about the borrowing of "Srbigas" through a certain type of guarantee, which shows that we are not only in the pandemic era, which has affected the whole world, but we are both in times and times of energy crisis. This energy crisis, of course, affects very many countries in the region, including the most developed EU countries, but Serbia is precisely, thanks to what I talked about from the beginning, because it has led one responsible foreign and internal policy, thanks to Mr. Vukic, today we can say that we are overcoming this energy crisis with the least possible damage that would be potential damage, i.e. the cost for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because when you look at the budgets of the countries in the region, they are almost on the verge of collapse precisely because of the energy crisis. Our borrowing, when we talk about "Srbigas", is precisely due to the intervention of imports, because in Bulgaria in November of last year, there was a huge havary, and Serbia was not able, simply, to carry with Bulgaria the transport of natural gas that is very much needed to Serbia, especially when it comes to business and therefore we had intervention imports with Hungary, and therefore you cannot from current business, of course, when you have such problems to do imports of gas and from the current liquidity of a public enterprise, it is necessary to really do intervention imports and that import is done exactly this way, through guarantees from banks that "Srbigas" withdraws, and the state approves. Among other things, all these projects, except for the intervention of gas imports, are also part of the budget plan for this year, which is of great importance, because we believe that this session today is an indication that there are interested financial institutions from both the East and the West, both from China, and from France, and from the European Investment Bank and from America simply... We also have the establishment of an International Investment Bank that refers to a multilateral organisation that is now being established in Budapest. So there are all the interested entities who are representatives of financial institutions in the world who simply want to participate in such strategic projects and what has proved to be these infrastructure projects... Of course, we're on the Finance Committee, and we're considering how long these credit repayment periods are, which are interest rates. Of course, these infrastructure projects that are related to Fruskogorski and Moravski corridor for a long period of 13 to 30 years, of course this part relating to municipal infrastructure and environmental protection goes from five to ten years and of course the most favourable interest rates that you look at today at this time of borrowing to Serbia precisely because of this high rating of BB+ credit rating, we have the lowest interest rates. What's he saying? That we cannot, however, as Serbia does not constantly repeat that the good financial results, the stability of the exchange rate, the high rate of foreign direct investment, which at the time of the pandemic was nearly three billion euros at the end of 2020, and today we are talking about 3.9 billion euros for last year, simply cannot be ignored. All those who will go to a political match today with the Serbian Progressive Party and our candidate, President Aleksandar Vukic, should simply give their own court on what the results of the past ten years have been, what Serbia has been through, to compare these results with the countries in the region, to compare even with the results, as you see more and more that certain critics of this economic policy are comparing us with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, as if we are already a member of the EU. No problem, we also have financial results that we can compare with EU members and simply tell citizens how much work and effort was needed to really achieve these results. They know it best, especially at a time of difficult problems that have hit the whole world and what the state has shown that these good results are shared with its citizens, and then let each of the residents of the Republic of Serbia before going to the polls to imagine what all Serbia has done, where all those who led Serbia until 2012, whether they shared those results with their citizens or obviously became rich overnight. And today they simply run their private companies in the way they ran this country by 2012, treating public finances as if they were private private finances. And today, when you have a political scene on which, on the one hand, you run against SNS Alexander Vukic, you have quasi-green politicians, who simply don't see what's been done in the field of environmental protection, they don't see how much Serbia has actually done in its 2025 plan and how much it's projected nearly 36.8 billion dinars in this year and they don't see this investment cycle that needs to bring good to each of us when it comes to the environment. You have, on the other hand, opposition representatives, who we have had the opportunity to see, representatives of General Ponos, who is an advocate of Serbia to join NATO, Marinika Tepic, who is an advocate to run one republican list that we had the opportunity to hear here in parliament that he asks all of us to admit that Srebrenica was genocide. Finally, you have a representative, or candidate for mayor of 80-year-old Prof. Jankovic, who himself said he was simply not an adequate candidate for the place, but to rely on this team and to see in all his programmes that Belgrade needs to be destroyed, to transfer the monument to Stefan Nemanja in Marinko's bar, to move Lesce, to hitch a ride to Lesce, to stop Makish and to review decisions relating to "Rio Tinto". Is it possible that the candidate for mayor of Belgrade does not know that Rio Tinto is interested in certain projects located in the municipality of Loznica and the town of Loznica, not in the city of Belgrade? I mean, I just want to tell the citizens who are opposed to the results of Serbia that were achieved today after 10 years. So, an entirely irresponsible policy that would lead us to this kind of contract that we couldn't even think about. First, because from the beginning, what I said, the moment when you simply define yourself to become a NATO member, which is the wish of Mr. Ponos, as a candidate for the president of Serbia, 5% of citizens only when they were doing the survey would support the idea that Serbia should be a NATO member, you would cut yourself, of course, many branches in economic terms to which Serbia today achieves high results. On the other hand, if, for example, the citizens were to really define themselves as Marinika Tepic, who wants us to simply support this idea as a state if Serbia had committed genocide, it would therefore turn itself and their children black for the next 50 years, and therefore no investor, believe me, would want to talk to Serbia at all. And on the third hand, if the mayoral proposals for Belgrade to collapse and become Belgrade after World War II were truly true, Serbia should surely rise and establish again for the next 20 years, to be a metropolis like today, shoulder to shoulder with all the developed, not only the metropolis in the EU countries, but also in the east and west, where simply all the world agencies today view Belgrade in a completely different way than it was observed ten years ago. This is why Alexander Vukic's policy really needs to show in the next campaign, which is why we have all supported and talked in this House for the past ten years why it is important to have a statesman who runs one responsible foreign and internal policy. The internal policy, when it comes to relations and talks with opposition parties, also showed that Mr. Vukic is leading a highly responsible policy, because he is ready to talk to them at any time. And you had this dialogue here in the Assembly partyly, and that's where it turned out that we went out and you almost saw it yesterday based on legal proposals, even at your own expense, when it comes to SNS, you adopted many legislative proposals. We don't have a problem with one way or another, when it comes to our party's interest, going to the public with our results and going to the polls. That's what counts great statesmen, not just local politicians. And because of this, we think that it is the citizens of Serbia who will be the main judges in the April 3rd elections, where they will say what they will vote for when it comes to the future of their family and the future of their children. So I think what we have as a topic today is actually Serbia's future. With these agreements, we are in fact building a new face of Serbia, creating a new future for Serbia, which I think Serbian citizens will have to say on April 3rd, but I think it is very important that we have shown that what a single state policy should not be held hostage to the petty own interests of certain tycoons, who have now pawned their firms and put their employees as candidates for the president of the state, as mayor, in order to regain those registers of the state, in order to enrich their private firms. When certain problems arise in the country, they would all remain in the domains of solving the problems of their private companies, their wealth, never deal with citizens' interests and never deal with the interests of the state. Imagine what it would look like if in one extremely irresponsible way they were to take on different state issues when it comes to Ponos, when it comes to the Marinika, when it comes to problems in the city, which should be tackled without delay, so that this would look like a problem for each of the citizens and each target group to whom the SNS is also extremely responsible today, when the difficult moments have passed when it comes to the Kovida 19 pandemic, and when the most difficult moments have passed when it comes to the energy crisis. Serbia has a unique price for electricity and there is no problem in the part. When it comes to health care and solving the problem of Kovid 19, new hospitals, new equipment, new medications and all that brings about solving each citizen's problems. (President: Time. ) The question is only asked – will those participating in this year's elections be in a position to recognise these results when the vote count is complete? We think it is very important now to immediately say that these results will indeed be the relevant strength of every political option because it says in advance that someone is going to steal the elections is an indicator of how weak and aware they are of who the citizens support. It is up to us to be extremely responsible politicians and to make decisions and solve problems in the interests of citizens. And we've been doing it for 10 years. All those who now want to play with their irresponsibility with the election process and the election cycle are actually those who will show how irresponsible politics they want to lead in Serbia and how much they want to create a kind of instability. As for this instability, Serbia will try to be decent, appropriate in implementing all the legal procedures that we have adopted here based on all the dialogues that were here in the National Assembly. This will indeed show how far Serbia has progressed in its democratic capacity and when it comes to the human rights relationship, how much they have respected us. (President: Time. Thank you, I'm done. This will show where Serbia is in the world. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandar Vukic, I am sure it will have enough power and brains to continue to show its responsibility to its citizens and support all their demands. It is therefore important that we today invite all MPs to plead and support all these proposals of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12179	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Since there are no more registered presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12180	The Serbian Progressive Party is a large party and has many personnel from former political options. I was hoping Minister Mali would be here today, so let's continue the controversy we couldn't when he called me a liar and when he said he was never anything but a member of the SNS. I did not dispute that he may have, I didn't even deal with the team, he was the only member of the SNS, but what I respected him was about those regimes that left Serbia in an economic disaster, is, for example, participation in the Privatisation Agency and in other positions where you were much more important, but that you were a member of some of the ruling parties since then. I have to admit it's normal to say what it is and what it is. It is true that these laws, i.e. This ratification of a contract where we take on international obligations to build the country's infrastructure, necessary and that's good. However, realistically, when all this is over, when one day the SNS is not in power, then those who are going to investigate whether there has been any installation, where these funds have gone and others say whether, besides one good intention and good accomplishment, there has been and something that will be criticised, as many of your parties today criticise "the bridge on Adi" or Gilas bridge, how much funds have been spent, and this bridge is good, it will need and will remain as "Belgrade on water", as well as many of the things that have been done. Every normal person in this country won't think that something needs to be torn down or played with such things, because every generation leaves a mark behind, both good and bad, and ultimately measures what remains in hard material and what remains for all future generations. There are some statistics that show in various ways what our current situation looks like. What's true is that many things are better than they were and I'm just going to read some of the statistics, and it's about comparing how it was in 2008 and what it is today. Why did I take 2008? Minister Nedimovic, like myself, then supported that power. This was at the time of Vojislav Kostunica's rule, which in 2008 left some of its mark and everything that came from 2008 to 2012, and we and all of us here together find it wrong in many segments, especially in segments of the economy. It is said that the average salary in 2008 was 410 euros, and in 2022 it was 550 euros. Minimalac was 210 euros in 2008, and in 2022 it was 290 euros. The average pension in 2008 was 237 euros and in 2022, 246 euros. When you look at this data, you see that improvement is made, and no one can dispute it. However, Serbia's external debt in 2008 was 8.8 billion euros, while in 2021 it was 29.6 billion euros. Now, if this data is correct, and I think it is, we are coming up with a question -- is it this much borrowing, in addition to going into infrastructure and what's good, because it's going to make it possible to make a new GDP, are we maybe because we were so sensitive to external investors, according to their corporations and other things, that we didn't get very far away, given how much we're in debt? I know that this government will say that this is a world trend, that we have entered into a strange situation as economists, like Goran Nikolic, say that for the first time we come into a long-term positioning, that interest rates on retail debts are negative, that you actually don't pay for the money you take but someone pays you to take that money, but consider that those who print money in Washington, Brussels, that they hold other levers as hard as they can to transfer it to countries like us. We don't have that kind of impact on these printing centres and their inflation when it comes to us can be very problematic. Anyway, I think all these indicators listed here are good, but they're not good enough, and I think the moment we unpack the SNS government, we'll have a lot of unpleasant things to see. That's one thing. Another thing about Mr. Sinisha Mali, whom I am sorry he is not here, so that he can answer me, regardless of what I had objections to him, is that on behalf of the Association "Protectator of Entrepreneurs and Businessmen of Serbia" who sought his shift... I have to remind myself that still these people are asking to see why, through e-fiscalization, the businessmen who had so far been in debt to the fiscalization were only 480 dinars a month, and their costs to 2,600 dinars, although they were promised it would not happen, and the Minister's shift itself sought because billions of dinars were spent on some software that was very strange and could be made at a much lower price than spending so much on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12181	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12182	The Serbian Progressive Party, and when it spoke, since it is your criticism the biggest, said of Gilas's bridge that we could have built two, three bridges instead of one. So that's what we've established to be a subscription. When we talk about borrowing Serbia, you are in debt based on financial power, not on whether you want to do something. Therefore, GDP in 2012 was 33.4 billion euros, the total GDP today is 53 billion euros. Debt on a percentage relative to that value, and today we're in charge, if we're talking public debt, somewhere at 53%, right, Minister? It is important to say that in 2012, you read in 2008, you were in charge of 15 billion euros, and today 29. That's exactly what we were talking about. Those who ruled lied about how much responsibility it was, because they kept their debts on public enterprises' debts, on the debts of the restructuring company, on sanctions that were brought through military, war pensioners, and there were approximately, a minimum, from five to eight billion euros, lying about what debt it was. Our borrowing at this point allows us to be extremely liquid, because our ability is so financial that we have succeeded in these 10 years to come from 33 billion euros in GDP to 53 billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12183	Thank you. It's the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12184	Dear President, honourable MPs, I just want to say a few things, referring to Mrs Tomic. You've brought up another thing that doesn't stand, which is the average profit in the Republic of Serbia. It is now over 610 euros. I think it's very important for the public, that people know, since you mentioned some figures about 500, I think you read the data from two, three years ago. The second thing, the public debt at this point is about 53.8%, and it's still much less under the Mastricht, which is 60%. Not taking it as a sacred cow, but simply as a trend considered by the EU countries below, they should maintain their debt level. It's some rapper that serves in the space we live in, and it's still Europe, as far as I know. Next thing. That debt was over 70% there around 2012. Public debt was made for consumption, not infrastructure. The only thing that's true in the whole story is that infrastructure facilities stay forever. You have two options in life, as well as at home. If you want to grow faster, to get to the end of the road faster, then you, if you have enough capacity in your house, raise your loan to do something faster. If you've solved it in a year, two, you don't have to wait 20, 30 years, you can do it from the budget, it's not controversial, but then that investment takes a lot longer. This is how you created the potential for yourself. The growth of GDP. By assembling all the values that a society makes in a year, you've created 70 percent more than you had a few years ago. And that's the only truth and the only thing. From there we have the potential to do this quickly because we have created much greater value and there is “Milos the Great” and there is a highway from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, from there is the end of the highway all the way to the border with Northern Macedonia, from there the Moravski corridor, from there the Fruskogorski corridor, from Kuzmin-Rač, from there Preljina - Pakorja and everything else. There's all these sewers we're going to do. It could've been from the budget, but it could've been a lot slower. This is how you have the potential not to make a new debt, because you're going to make a GDP that will absorb all of this, and that's the only truth, and that's what I needed to say. And there's one thing, thanks for the positive assessment of many projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12185	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12186	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers with associates, we have today an important set of laws, I would say, a key confirmation that everything we have promised citizens in previous elections through our "Serbia 2025" plan and we will meet. In this way, we confirm that in 2022, as President Aleksandar Vukic announced, a year of record investment in infrastructure throughout our country. What is certainly important to mention, the citizens did not vote to block us, to bring down something, to move cemeteries and move monuments, but to invest and to build and just what we're talking about here today is to confirm and correct policies that we've routed back to 2012 and what day-to-day and how many citizens and the growing number of citizens in the elections support and what we, of course, have the obligation to represent. All we've promised the citizens will be done, it's absolutely certain that today will be over because President Aleksandar Vukic when he says something, we know that it will be done. It's not the case, as it was before 2012, you know how many promises we had, so nothing was done. Here, for example, you mentioned a section of Preljina – Pakorraž, so for years we say that this road, I say, before 2012, we were persuaded to make the highway to Cačka, of course not one foot before 2012 would have done so, no aces did not hurt. They weren't able to make even the most ordinary reconstructions of existing traffic that we had in our region. Here, we took that route today. In an hour we approached Zlatibor today from Belgrade. Today when you're going to the entire Goldibors end, it takes an hour less. This is what citizens require of us to improve the life of an ordinary man with concrete measures, and in this way we also help the economy, help and tourism, give us the opportunity to develop the entire district. We couldn't talk about serious investment, serious investment when you didn't have the most basic infrastructure. That's why we, therefore, and just when we're talking about credit lines, which you were just talking about, we're doing it, but not to be in debt to pay our salaries and pensions, as did experts from the former regime today who are taking our mind off the height of public debt, but we're holding public debt below the level of the Mastrict. We have, we say, 53.8% of the public debt, today the participation of GDP, and they left 79% of the public debt, and today these experts are telling you that we shouldn't be in debt, and you just made a good introduction to what I'm about to say. Today when we take loans, we only do that to invest in infrastructure. We take loans at a minimum interest rate of 1% and 2%, unlike the time when interest rates here were taken of 7.5%, the green interest rates that we today have to pay back because this country's policy has been irresponsibly conducted. And first of all, what I still want to mention, when I mentioned my region of goldiboric from which I came, not only did we finish the highway, or that we brought the highway to, practically, near Požega, we move on. We've finished a complete traffic stop from Chuck to Zlatibor. We are investing in the health center of Uzica next year, where 80m euros will be invested. We're still working on revitalising all the regional routes, we've solved the problem of a wild dump in Prepolje, and people see it today. You can see that all over the place today. So in Serbia, you have huge infrastructure, investment and these agreements that we have on the agenda here today are just a confirmation of the continuation of such a policy. The minister spoke in detail about all the points that are on the agenda today, I would just point out what I think is most important. So the Moravia Corridor is the heart, that is, the breadth of our country's housewives when it comes to connecting the infrastructure east and west of the country. We've never had a connection like this between our East and the West before. You know, the people who live, say, in Chačka and who live in our region, that it was so hard to get there, that they were more of a lot of traffic to get to, say, Nis and to the east, the south of our country. Today, we're working out the Moravia Corridor thing. Not only is that important only for the people to move, it's important for the economy. You've got on that Moravia corridor track that we're confirming here today, 12 kilometers of that route will connect over half a million people. The largest cities in central Serbia will be connected and thus the economy will also get an even greater impulse to be able to employ even more, to export even more. That's how we show that we really care about every part of our country. What's important is that you're also talking about ecology, we're hearing various experts who are salting our minds so that something can be invested in environmental science, and we have concrete measures here. We are building a wastewater treatment system in Belgrade, building eight regional dumps, rehabilitating existing regional dumps. I mentioned just before Prepolje, it was an ecological bomb on its way into town. That's settled today. It's never occurred to anyone before. You have also talked about important infrastructure projects when it comes to irrigation, i.e. creating artificial accumulation on the southern slope of Fruska Gora, in order to encourage wine growing. Also, about investments in Negotin, the Svilian, wherever we can, we will, of course, provide our people with the opportunity to further expand their plantings. That's how the state takes care of them. You can't do it out of your own resources, no state does it out of its own resources. You have to be in charge of the international market, but at low interest rates as the government does today and thus invest. Ask the ordinary businessman how the company expands, how the capacity expands. No one can do this from their own income, no country can do it from its own income, but through favourable credit lines it is possible to further develop our country and thus we show that we also think about the needs of our citizens. What did we also say today was very important? Building a broadband internet. We can talk here that we want to develop tourism, that we want to develop agriculture, that we want people to stay in smaller places, but if you don't let them have what's most basic, which is today the Internet, so this digital connection around the world, if you don't let every school have the Internet, we're doing this 1,200 schools and public institutions today we're going to attach it to the fast internet. That's how we show that we think about every part of our country. What was also mentioned to be very important? Of course, all the projects that we're talking about here today are just an indication that in 2022 there's really going to be a year of turning point, after which absolutely nothing is going to be the same. We, as I speak here, are speaking here in this National Assembly hall, 1,200 kilometers of highways are running, machines are on 12 routes of fast traffic, highways. That's how you show that you care, not only about citizens living in big cities, but every man in our country is important to you. We don't share people, you know how the other night we could hear whether someone was born here or there, you have representatives of the opposition who, with ridicule, talk about people living in the centre of Belgrade. They say Marinko's bar, so it's out there somewhere. They say - we'll move the monument to the Marink Bar of Stefan Nemanje or some Borch there. Can you imagine, respected citizens of Serbia, what about us from Chajetina, Ivanjica, Arlja, Chačka, I don't know, Surdulice, what they think about people from Kosovo and Metohija, when about the people of those civil elites who represent the opposition here today, when about people living in Belgrade themselves, I don't know if the citizens of Serbia know that Marinko's bar is two kilometers away from the temple of St Sava, Borca is a few kilometers away from downtown Belgrade, when they talk about these people with ridicule? Then what do they think of us in Serbia's interior? Of course they don't understand this story of ours that we're talking about here today, we're building some broadband Internet in rural areas. What do they care about rural areas? What do they care about over there, some Fruska Gora that you've instructed, some Negotin and a Svilian? Why would they care about the rest of Serbia? For them, Serbia only comes down to a circle of two. It's never gonna be a case for us. Every man, wherever he lives, matters to us. Also, we should note that what you just said when it comes to public debt, we have already said a few things about it, but it is important to note, Serbia is now in debt at the lowest interest rates. We are not irresponsible as they were experts, such as Nikezic, who every day with tycoon television has given us the sense and says that the amount of public debt, I don't know, is bigger than it was in their time. Well, my colleague Tomic used to say, "You're in debt as much as you're solvable, that's what the citizens know." If you don't work, you don't have a job, when you go to the bank, they won't give you credit or if you're registered to a minimumer, you'll get much less credit than when you have good receipts. So those of you who are sorely minded are the same ones who left the state, or public debt at 79% level, and when they talk about public debt, they keep making that same trap to convince the citizens that, I don't know, what a catastrophic public debt situation they're talking about, absolute numbers. It's not done that way anywhere in the world. When you talk about public debt, you talk about the percentage of GDP's participation in public debt. Today it's 53.8%, they left us 79% of the public debt. When you talk about absolute numbers, you should also say the data -- today GDP is 53 billion, and it was only 10 years ago only 33 billion euros. So that's how we showed that the state over the past 10 years, we've increased GDP twice today when we translate what you're saying into Serbian to let citizens know -- we're making twice as much money today as we were in 2012. Of course we have the potential to borrow at better interest rates and thus invest in what is needed, which is infrastructure. This is certainly not employment, i.e. wages and pensions like they did from credit, at green interest rates. Yesterday we also had here, and I have to look at that briefly, a set of election laws that will also be on the polls tomorrow. I hope most of us here adopt electoral laws. To remind the citizens of Serbia, two years ago we had some changes here, when it comes to electoral legislation. In co-operation with the EU, but also in the inter-party dialogue that was then led us to a solution that was absolutely then a major impulse to the opposition above all because the electoral threshold was down from five to three percent. We helped and we made a great contribution to them, and those who are even an extra-parliamentary opposition access to state media. Today, absolutely no one can say that his media access has been blocked anywhere. You have a situation where the other day the famous TV host said that, in turn, everyone from Ponos to Lutovac refused to host on a famous show on the morning program. Thus, they show that they absolutely do not want and are not interested in election conditions. We were talking about electoral conditions yesterday and tomorrow, of course, everything that's agreed on will be adopted. Therefore, it should be mentioned that the opposition will have 16,000 observers in the next election. We have made it possible for those who have a non-parliamentary status to be in the permanent composition of the RIK. There's a lot of other newspapers -- from how to control the records. We are absolutely making a maximum contribution that no one can say that the elections, I don't know, were irregular, that the election race was like this or like this. We are doing everything possible to contribute to the victory that Alexander Vukic and SNS will surely win on April 3rd because they will have 16,000 observers. No one will be able to say that the election was like this or that. To remind the citizens of Serbia, we, when we came to power in 2012, won their 2009 election rules. We didn't mind election rules because we knew we had the support of the people. First of all, to come to power, you have to have the support of the people, they don't have it today and there are no electoral conditions that we can vote and bring here, and that they will be satisfied and that citizens should know. There are no electoral conditions that will suit them, because of course they do not have the support of citizens and they will not have it. We have to look back briefly, over the past few days you've had the presentation of these, as I would say, the fig leaves of Dragan Gilas and the mayor of that current gentleman from 82 years of Jankovic who said in his first statement - we're going to tear down the monument, we're going to transfer it to Marinkov's bar, and that's some, I guess, that they're experiencing selendra, as they say. I say again -- it's the centre of Belgrade, citizens who do not live in Belgrade, it's the centre of Belgrade. How would they treat us from within Serbia when they talk about people living in Belgrade? Then you had Marinika Tepic. How do they convince Serbian citizens, what electoral conditions do they need to win with a woman who here in the National Assembly publicly asked for Serbs to be branded as a genocide people? What election conditions should we bring them to their satisfaction? Well, of course with such candidates, they don't stand a chance. They have run for NATO candidate Zdravko Ponos, a man who has been directly in the US dispatch since 25 June, seems to me, in 2006, characterised as an American man in the heart of the state's defence reform system. They therefore go with three feathers, Gilas, i.e., as we said, Ponoš for the president - NATO candidate, Marinika for the head of the parliamentary list and Mr Jankovic would like to tear down the cemetery and move monuments for the first man of the capital. Then we say, "Let's just make sure they show up in public." It is my appeal to everyone that as many of them as possible appear in public and that the state media is calling them to appear, because with every appearance as it was on that tycoon TV, they only raise our ratings and they only contribute to making that victory as much of a difference as possible. We are quite certain that with their candidates whom they have presented our victory is absolutely not questionable. So we're sure we're going to the election completely clean, honestly. We will present our results to the citizens. We'll talk about new kilometers, talk about new stripes. What kind of special electoral conditions do you need to explain to the citizens that you will be arriving from Novi Sad to Belgrade in 20 minutes, as will be the case in two weeks? What special electoral conditions do we have here to bring citizens to vote for us when the results are more than obvious? The one from Cačka who comes to Belgrade knows that he's going an hour shorter today than he did 10 years ago. We don't need any special election conditions. We have clear policy, visible, measurable, precisely measurable results from President Alexander Vukic, and we are quite certain that citizens will do so and how to support the elections. I am absolutely sure that the citizens of Serbia will not support the policy of destruction, the policy of blocking, the policy of returning Serbia to that dark age when the country was managed by foreign embassies, from certain offices of domestic tycoons. So today we have an honest, responsible policy, and I'm pretty sure that victory will be convincing. However, what is quite certain is that their victory, neither election conditions nor of course do not dream of winning, on April 3rd they will do everything to challenge the destabilising of the state, that on April 3rd they will try to try to close the polling stations, and we already have information about it, that they will try to challenge certain instability, to say that in Serbia they have committed theft as they did in a referendum where we have neither special nor participated, we have not made too much effort to go public now and to explain to the citizens why they should vote. There were enough two appearances by President Alexander Vukic, who urged the people to vote in a referendum for – yes and you see for yourself that the choice is such that 60% of the people supported what he said. If we had been more actively involved in the campaign, if the SNS had run a more aggressive campaign, the result would certainly have been over 75%. The next election will show the people's strength above all that supports President Aleksandar Vukic's policies. It will be important that we maintain peace and order in our country on 3 April. I call on our security services to make sure that no one on the side or inside on that day is thinking of carrying out any action aimed at destabilizing our country, and what is quite certain is that we from the SNS and the next policy of Alexander Vukic will use a pen to beat all the representatives of the former regime that would return to the full state register today, but it is even more certain that we will know that we will defend the election will of the citizens, I say, and a pencil, but even if it is necessary in any other place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12187	I thank the honourable MP, George Dabic. I give the word to the honourable MP Jasmine Karanac, representatives of the SDPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12188	Thank you, Vice President Krkobic. Dear Minister Nedimovic, honored guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will refer in this part of my presentation to the loan agreement concerning the introduction of a broadband internet into rural parts of Serbia. The project of building communication infrastructure in the rural area has been set up to accelerate the development of broadband networks in areas that have no internet, mainly villages that are far from large cities. Namely, the plan is to provide in these villages a speed connection of at least 100 megabytes per second, which enables quite reliable and secure internet, and as access points schools will be used and it is mainly in 90% of cases, and in places where there are unfortunately no schools other public institutions will be used. This project will connect 1,200 schools and public institutions in Serbia and is one of the strategically important projects. When we talk about the importance of this venture, we should bear in mind that half a million households in Serbia do not have internet, and you will agree that in the 21st century life without the internet is unimaginable. This proved especially at the time of the pandemic when children attended online school and when many people worked from home. Here I must commend the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications which launched a project to build broadband communication infrastructure with the aim of getting the last house in the village online. In this way thousands of young people will be given the opportunity of modern education, and it will enable businesses and farmers from such rural areas to do better business. This is of crucial importance for balanced regional development and to curb the digital gap between urban and rural environments. In this context, I have to point out here that in developed economies the division of urban-rural is negligible and that 89% of urban area residents use the Internet compared to 85% of rural people. In developing countries, images are drastically different and this relationship is 72% urban compared to 34% in rural areas. That is why it is important for this project in Serbia, as I have already said, to reduce the digital gap to the lowest possible extent. What is a good point of this contract between Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, from which we are taking a loan is training on digital literacy, i.e. training people in the country to use the Internet, as well as other services of the EGG. This project gives a range of benefits to people in remote areas, that they can electronically pay their bills, apply for various projects, subsidies, especially from agriculture, inform themselves, use internet television that allows them many channels and different programs, etc. Simply without the internet, you cannot develop tourism, economy, and modern agricultural production. Without the Internet, there is no modern way of life. Finally, when we talk about the importance of the Internet in the modern world, I want to point out one interesting fact, which is that Finland is the first country in the world to set Internet access on the list of basic human rights in 2010. The following year, the UN report said that access to the internet is a human right and that one of the priorities of all countries must be to provide internet for all citizens. The project to build communication broadband infrastructure in rural parts of Serbia is a good indicator that our country also manages these recommendations. I hope that, as soon as possible, Serbia will draw closer to developed countries of the world when it comes to accessing the internet of its citizens. That is why I call upon fellow Members of the People to support this proposal as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12189	I thank the honourable MP, Jasmine Karanac. The word has a representative of the Single Serbia Parliament Club, Mr. Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Associates, honourable Members of the People. Today we have several significant draft laws on contracts and agreements. I'll look back on just some of them. With the bill passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the state will give "Serbia" guarantees to settle new credit obligations with six banks, a total of 200m euros. Due to the chaos that took place in November last year in Bulgaria, regular natural gas supply was cut off, so "Srbigas" had to import the intervention quantities of gas from Hungary. This led to the use of its own resources. This borrowing is necessary for further safety and continuous supply of natural gas to our country, which means continuing imports of this energy. "Srbigas" is forced to continue to import additional quantities of gas, and now at significantly higher prices. State intervention, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was needed. It is also important to highlight the big job that our country has done when it comes to the price of gas for six months, as well as for the next period, where we have shown that we are a reliable and strategic partner of Russia in the Western Balkans. We have shown that we have a strategy for our further independence when it comes to energy policy. I believe the project is one of the largest and most significant projects in the last decades in our country. It will only take us years to understand the importance of a major project when it comes to our energy independence. We all know that our country is the leader in this part of Europe in bringing new foreign investment and certainly one of the most significant conditions for new investment is the gasification of Serbia as a whole. The state has determined to change Serbia's gas map by changing some standards on local self-government taxes and various other reliefs, and "Srbigas" has provided correct prices for connections, so that every household will be able to join the gas. As the best example, the city of Jagodina, which has been completely gassed and all 52 villages that are gravitating, has been gassed to the end, and this has significantly helped the president of my parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Markovic Palma, to bring in 12 significant foreign and direct investments in the city of Jagodin in the last nine years, and thus contributes significantly to the development of the entire Moravian district. In any case, this task is something that is really needed at this point, for further supply and regular natural gas, and we certainly need to support this decision. When it comes to the Law confirming a loan agreement with the Chinese bank "Export-Import", it is part of an agreement on economic co-operation in the area of infrastructure projects between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China that began 12 years ago. In this way, various capital projects have been financed, including the Borca-Zemun Bridge, Obrenovac-Surcin road, Obrenovac-Ljig, a bypass around Belgrade, investment in railway infrastructure and various other and large projects. We have already spoken many times how important the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor is and how important it is for the economic development of this part of Vojvodina. This is one of the busiest cars with daily traffic from 10,000 to 12,000 vehicles, and this has really become unbearable. I'm often in a position to go through this section and know how big a problem this is and how much it's going to mean to relieve traffic and all routes, as well as to preserve the environment. The French corridor is 48 km away and there will be the longest two-way tunnel in our country, in the length of 3.5 km, if the bridge over the Danube, length 1.8 km. It will significantly reduce travel time, make traffic flow faster. Traffic security will be a significant increase. The route is linked to the existing state road, Ruma-Sabac-Loznica, which is also reconstructed and will become a fast roadway, and thus Vojvodina will better connect with western and northwest Serbia, and thus also with BiH. When it comes to the draft law establishing the International Investment Bank, which we are joining as a state, it is another indication that the Republic of Serbia has become a desirable investment destination and that this will result in the inflow of new foreign investment and thus a better life for our citizens. The International Investment Bank is one of the leading and best rated international institutions made up of nine countries, the most significant of which is the Russian Federation. It is a multilateral development bank with a centre in Central Eastern Europe, which specializes in medium- and long-term financing of large projects. The aim is to support the economic development of the Member States and our membership in this organisation to demonstrate that we are a relevant international partner and part of world and financial flows, and now also part of the decision-making process. Our membership will certainly contribute to strengthening our entire financial system, which is certainly the goal of all this. In any case, the JS parliamentary group will support all today's draft laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12191	Thank you. The word has an important folk MP Diana Radovic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12192	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers of Nedimovic, colleagues and fellow MPs, during the previous year and a half, since the constitution of this National Assembly, we have had the opportunity to adopt a number of laws that regulate and improve the financial segment of our country. For the ultimate goal, the result has also had positive effects for all of our citizens. Today, the points on the agenda are the continuation of these activities, i.e. the promotion and provision of funds so that we can finance important projects that are of great importance to all our citizens and to our country. The area of infrastructure, ecology, education, as well as the area of telecommunications are all areas in which significant funds have been invested over the past year and a half. We have made serious moves in these areas and thus provided our citizens with a better and better quality of life. I will talk today about the agenda point relating to the project of building broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas and of course we know that this is the continuation of the same-named project that was the subject of the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We also know that it was a loan that provided Internet access for over 500 settlements, or 80,000 households in rural areas, in the first phase. The second stage is certainly today's loan we're talking about. It's important that as many rural environments as possible be covered by the Internet network. In this way, we will make it easier for all residents in these areas to live better, better quality, simpler and easier life, but by doing so, we will create a better economic environment. I will agree with you, Minister, that what you said, that the biggest benefits of this project will be the education sector, or access points used for this project, are certainly primary and secondary schools in rural areas. This way, at the end of all phases of this project, we will have the opportunity to access the Internet over 1,200 schools, which will be really important, especially if we have in mind that during the pandemic of the corona, the education sector had the biggest difficulties in rural areas, in those areas where it was not covered by the Internet network. Of course it's very important, that we have seen this deficit in certain environments and that through these projects we are removing these shortcomings and ensuring that all pupils of primary and secondary schools living in rural areas are in equal terms with their urban community friends. In addition to the benefits that the education sector will have in this type of project, i.e. the implementation of this project, it is certainly necessary to draw particular attention to how much more favourable the economic environment will be in rural areas. It is extremely important for me that agriculture will also have large benefits. All agricultural producers will also be able to use the Internet as an electronic means of communication, i.e. a means and instrument where they will be able to use electronic banking, the electronic portal "E-agrar" that we have introduced and which will soon be in circulation. In this way, all agricultural producers will also be able to inform themselves of the status of their agricultural holdings, they will be able to submit requests for subsidies, to inform themselves of all those measures and incentives that the Ministry of Agriculture is carrying out and apply in time for these projects, taking into account that they will not even have to go to the city, they will all do so electronically. Today, the Internet is the need for business communication, and we talked about it, but it is important that agricultural producers do this way, which will enable them to use the Internet network in all parts of the world, to be able to get to their customers much faster, but also to make it easier, easier and better to promote all their products. It is important to note that in the previous period, we have adopted a number of legislative solutions aimed at a more operational and competitive economy, at curbing the grey economy, but also at creating all those conditions that we have a legally secure and transparent financial system. These are certainly new e-fiscalisation laws, the new e-booking law, the new marketing regulation law on agricultural products. That is why it is important to create an environment for one legislative regulation to be at such an envious and ambitious level, in real application, that our citizens can apply all of this. Simply put, all of these laws that we have passed in the past were designed to speed up existing work processes, to make our business and business of all businesses in the economic sector as best, more operational and quality, and by taking care of the repression of the grey economy, which is what we are going to make certain savings here. In our state budget there will also be more money, which we will also use to build new roads, new schools, new preschool institutions, where we will focus money on all those local self-governments to ensure better and better quality status. All this is important so that all citizens can live in a better quality, and perhaps the freshest and best example is for us who come from western Serbia an open section of the highway "Milos Veliki", where we have the opportunity to see how important it is for Zlatiborski and Moravička district, how much it will affect every mile of the highway we have made for a better economy, where we will have the opportunity to see and how all the potentials of this region will be used, and indeed in these parts of Serbia there are many. This is why it is extremely important that in the previous period, through different measures and projects, we have managed to stimulate economic development in all parts of Serbia. This is extremely important because we have taken care of both local and regional potentials and thus managed to move towards the goal we are seeking, which is a balanced regional development throughout Serbia. I'll just say one more thing about the new fiscalization law, where we have a chance to see that there is a great deal in the course of all the subsidies that the state has provided to our businessmen to move as easily, simpler and cheaper as possible in this new way of fiscalization. It is important that more than 130,000 taxpayers are registered and that the economy itself will be more modern, in line with modern liquids. But what I have to say is that we are from the SPS parliamentary group and during the adoption of this law, we have to have a special understanding for rural entrepreneurs when it comes to the application of this law, and it is good that today we are talking about this project, which will eliminate these shortcomings, that all rural environments are covered by the Internet network, the fast internet network, which will also mean that entrepreneurs from rural areas will also be able to adapt in a better, simpler and faster way to this new business model, which is important for the business activities they are dealing with. The SPS parliamentary group will, of course, support all points of the agenda that we discussed today. We believe in the rapid and successful implementation of all the projects that we have discussed today, we believe that both citizens and businesses will have significant benefits from these projects that we will realise in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12193	Thank you. Ljiljana Malušić has the word, in front of the Parliament Club “Alexandar Vucic – For Our Children”.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12194	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I'm going to talk about building a highway and a fast traffic station, because I think infrastructure is something you can't do without. If we want foreign investors, of course we have to do infrastructure, which is what Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have done since 2012, and intensively. Thanks to the fact that we have an extremely developed now than 50 years ago, because no one cared whether infrastructure should be done slowly, but we certainly do. It's currently in the projects of 1,300km of highways and fast traffic and I'll be on my way. I'm going to take a cab to list what's going to be built, because people need to know. Since 2012, only complete infrastructure has been built. We currently have 65,000 construction sites in Serbia. Serbia was once on its knees, and today it is like a phoenix, thanks to Mr. Vukic, the president and this government. Today we have direct foreign investments 3.9 billion. We have 320,000 employees today. Let's just remember in 2008, when 400,000 people were fired. Then unemployment was 26%. That's what I'm gonna say all the time, because people need to know how it used to be and how it is now. So today unemployment is 10.5%, because we had Kovid for two years. If we didn't, unemployment would be 7.5%, and the European average is 5%. That's how it works. It's being built in Serbia. Everything's being built. Let's take it in a row. The highway is built from Pojat to Preljina or Moravski Corridor, fast traffic from Novi Sad to Ruma or Fruskogorski Corridor. What does that mean? Well, we'll connect, as far as the Moravia Corridor, central Serbia is concerned with Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. What does that mean again? The development of the economy, the development of tourism, the integration of local self-government, the bringing of investors, the absolute improvement for the Republic of Serbia. Also, for the French Corridor. There hasn't been anyone in years for infrastructure in Vojvodina, in that beautiful province of ours, in the north. When you leave, transport traffic next to Irig just rocking those houses, only they don't collapse. There will be no more of that. So, we connect Novi Sad to Ruma, they'll connect local self-government, we'll work on tourism. Because there, on the Mount of France, we have 22 beautiful monasteries, there's our little Hilandar. Finally Serbia lives, finally Serbia develops. What hit me terribly. Yeah, one more sentence. The other day, a section of the road was opened from Preljina to Pakorja, 11.5 kilometers. So we only have 20 kilometers to Požega, and then we go further to Boler. We're connecting with all the republics. That's how it works. Mr. Vukic signed "small Schengen", four types of freedom with Northern Macedonia and Albania. What does that mean? Well, four types of freedom. Once again, economic independence, power. When people are satisfied with their salaries and their standards will not conflict with each other, there are no wars. People, one Switzerland with its cantons, I asked how is there no conflict there? Well, there isn't. They have a good standard, people are satisfied with their salaries. That's how it's gonna be in Serbia. We have four types of freedom, capital, goods, services, recognition of qualifications. Guys, speed. There's only one place to do the customs work, there won't be a 75-hour delay, there won't be any spoils. That's how it works. Let's move on. Renovated all schools in Serbia, renovated hospitals. Something that hasn't been done in 50 years. That's what people need to know. Here, look at Belgrade. The first phase of the clinic center will be completed, which is extraordinary. ‘Tirshaw 2’ shall be built. We made three Kovid hospitals. We have five kinds of vaccines. Until about a month ago, two days four, now five. Well, we have the most vaccine in Europe. People, this little country that was on its knees just a few years ago is being built, it's getting powerful. Why? Because we have a leader who's a patriot. When I hear someone quasi calling himself an elite, who says the monument to Stefan Nemanja, who is the progeny of the Nemonic Dynasty should be in Marinko's bar. Shame on him. Why is he insulting my Marink bar? I'm with the Leader. It's one of the most beautiful parts of the Leader. There live my friends Roma who help everyone, who are one cheerful and good people. What did he mean by that? Shame on him. He'll figure out where he'll be. It's supposed to be where he is the heir to the dynasty. The other day we heard an announcement in all the media that our president was about to be assassinated. You're a disgrace. Why? Well, because it's the thousandth time he's been threatened. Because it's powerful, because we have a stability factor in the Balkans, because we have the biggest economy, because from 78% of the debt of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, we came to 52%, because it breaks the drug cartels, because it chases criminals, and that's why it wants that strong man who has crossed Serbia's borders to disappear. He can rule any country he wants. The ultimate intellectual, speaks languages, the greatest patriot. Come on, tell me back 50 years who's stood up for Serbia this much. His goal is to do something, and he's done a lot of things. Digitalization. Who? Well, the SNS, or the government. Education, education, all SNS, i.e. Mr. Vukic and Government. Quick stripes. Well, we built and revitalised 750 kilometers of track. My dear colleague traveled eight hours from Priboj to Belgrade, today 5.5 hours. They'll travel for two hours when they've made the high-speed rails. Here's a fast track the other day, testing. A fast track will end from Belgrade to Novi Sad by March of the month, and then we go to the border. The Hungarian side also works. We'll be able to get to Budapest in three hours. Is there anything better? A modern country of good people. This is where we build bridges, railroads, roads. We connect people, we don't separate. Anyone who wants to harm this country should stay away from us. We didn't deserve it. There's a lot to say. First of all, we have the biggest projects in this part of the world. These are the construction of the metros, then the "Beograd on the Water", and there was a cry about that, that "Belgrade on the Water" would be brought down. God, Lord, sometimes I think that these people, come on, I mean, it's not my vocabulary to insult someone, but it's got them either with a code or they're not normal. What do you want them to tear down? That's what people paid for. That's what people bought. It is the most beautiful promenade in Serbia, not only in Serbia, but in this part of the world. It's not just me, it's all those people who spit and say such ugly things I saw them there, walking there, because it's beautiful. Every one of them fantasize about having an apartment there. We have good, high-quality personnel, we do good work, we don't steal unlike them. Let's try to remember what they were doing. Where did 619m euros go? Who took them? Well, Gilas. How? A little bit on the bridge, his little saying, as he said, his engineering brain, thanks to the machine's brain because he's so much steam. It is not only 619m euros, 35 apartments, 65 accounts from Montenegro, Macedonia, and so on. How is it possible for someone to explain it to me? You know what 619 million is? Here, the corridor costs 400 million. So we can make a corridor and we can make a railroad, we can finish one 10 stripes. Give back the money, Gilas, give back the money. You will be judged by this people. Not only Gilasu, anyone who stole, took from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The best way to talk about how we do is by those young people who are in the congregation today that we respect, who appreciate, who know so much, the intellectuals themselves. They call us sandwichers. Who's the sandwich boy here? Elita, this is the elite. One of us has never respected them for their credentials, that they are illiterate, that they are like this. These kids sitting here have colleges, masters, Ph.D.s, they work, they all work and they don't have butter on their heads like they do. They need to wonder why they're doing this, this is our country. Why did they go to foreign ambassadors all the time? Why? This is an independent independent country where young people slowly, but surely return. What I keep in my mind is procreation. They say people went into the world during the Wolf. Shame on them, so they left in 2008 when 400,000 people were fired, which means a million and 200,000 people had nothing to eat. They fired a thousand judges, so we had to pay back their debts. We paid over 40m euros in damages to those people. It's normal. Just because they weren't in office at the time. The first is M.M., Judge Majic, I guess we'll have another one who said rape was folklore, which was released by the Gjilan group. I don't know where to start talking. I want to tax the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on everything. We build kindergartens, we build schools, and they're for "Hetherland" only for the board they set up, which costs a million euros, where the millions of euros are due. Now we're done. Then, "Pazl City", a missed investment, a replica of Belgrade, all nonsense itself, underground containers, cutting trees. That should reconsider a little bit. Every one of us who's stolen should be behind bars for years. I could talk all day about what we've done, but there are other colleagues. What's very important to me is birth-stimulating stimuli, for procreation. We've already said that, but I have to point out that we've bought a building that's being renovated and that's going to be a clinic for artificial insemination. So far it's been two, then four times free to go to fertilization, and from now on this government and Mr. Wolf, while you can stand it, because this country lacks children. We're gonna end it and we're gonna end it, we're gonna end up doing a lot of whatever it takes to keep us alive and healthy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12195	I thank the honourable People's Parliament. The word has a respected MP, Nenad Filipovic, in front of the Single Serbia Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12196	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear People's MPs, respected ministers with their associates, in my presentation, I will refer to the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and about the project to build broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas, which is in fact part of a larger project and is a continuation of the first phase of the realisation of broadband internet, which aimed at the first phase of the integration of 600 schools and public facilities. At that time, the 18m-euro contract was voted in the National Assembly, and today we have a 100m-euro agreement to speed up the development of fast broadband networks across rural areas, focusing on schools as access points. It's 1,200 access points, so about 900 schools and 300 public facilities. So when we talk about schools, we're also talking about their out-of-state departments. Realisation of such projects is essentially not possible without State intervention, because such projects are not commercially profitable and investors are not paid to invest in such areas if they cannot return them. One real question is, is the fundamental need of society a broadband internet in such rural areas, and are these tasks that are essentially not small, 100 million euros needed? We in Unity Serbia believe this is a good move by the government, for several reasons, and we as the Parliamentary Group of the Single Serbia will support this project in the day to vote and we will vote for it. What are the reasons that justify a project like this? I wouldn't look back, and I don't want to talk about reasons that are obvious, but I'd like to say what you can't see at first sight. You may not see it at first sight, but this project opens up many areas that we as a state will be dealing with in the coming years and decades and can trigger an avalanche of good things. First of all, the natal policy is what this country will be dealing with in the coming years and decades and where large funds will be invested, and this is one part of that whole puzzle that will need to solve this problem, because I would remind you that this year alone we have 70,000 fewer newborns than the dead. In fact, since it is rural areas, it is mostly rural areas where the older population prevails, with the tendency to shut down these villages, and in this way we are now investing, we are making the first move towards reducing the migration of the population from the village to the city. With the help of the Internet, therefore, in such environments the return of young people, and the staying of those in those villages, is much easier. The introduction of a fast internet in rural areas and the feeling that this fast internet is causing in young people and can even be compared to the feeling that the first electrification of these same villages, i.e. when the first light bulb lighted up. Secondly, what is very important and I think that we should throw the accent, which is if we know that these rural environments are the foundations of an ecologically healthy environment and we see only then what is the potential to start and reverse the migration process, i.e. that people are coming back from the city to the village, because if we know that now is the era of ecologicals, we have such potentials that we need to exploit. This ecologically healthy environment that I'm talking about opens the door to a strong tourist potential, i.e. rural or rural tourism, where the natives can prosper, and the doors to the return of many who have left these villages are opened. This strengthens both family and traditional values. That is why we need infrastructure, but not only broadband infrastructure, but also road infrastructure. That is why local self-government should also exploit these potentials that I was talking about to improve its environment, and if they are not able, the state itself must jump in with certain financial support. If we know that with good road infrastructure from rural areas we can reach the city centre in 15 minutes, if we know that these areas are a healthy environment, if we know that we have the potential to develop rural tourism and if we have a fast internet, there is no reason why such places are not being revived and revitalised. In southern Serbia, Jablani and the Pcini district are abundant in these environments and that is good news for us. Of course, we expect the state's assistance in terms of road infrastructure to these rural areas, since we, for example, have 144 inhabited places in Leskovac and you will agree that these are huge funds for local self-government, but that is why there is a state that can solve these problems. In the end, I would say another sentence, that's what I've been saying all the time, when we're at the road infrastructure, the Leskovac-Vučje road, I've commended the beginning of the work, but I have to say that people are a little dissatisfied because these works are stopped, so I expect those who need to hear – to hear – and to hear that these works continue so that this year we have the end of that road. In any case, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of these contracts and these agenda points that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12197	I thank the honourable MP Filipovic. The word is by Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12198	Thank you, Your Honor. All draft laws that go in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve not only support, but respect for all MPs, because these are the laws that allow further investment in the improvement of life especially of those citizens who are in the middle of the country's central parts. They encourage these laws for the reason why we expect these funds to allocate significant funds from these loans to those areas that have been neglected for decades earlier, and which only these last years, especially in these partnership relations between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the Serbian Progressive Party, have been given importance, and this has been almost implemented by those meetings in Sjenica, Novi Pazar, and Priboj, where it is very much promised to the citizens and where President Aleksandar Vucic has given more investment for the region than perhaps in the previous five or six decades ever invested in that environment. Of course, the process of building everything that is promised will last, but every day it is done intensively. What is most important is this road infrastructure, especially the highway that will open that space for all those foreign investors who will contribute greatly to us to preserve the population at that end, because otherwise, unless something is done to preserve all that remains of the population, unless further invested by the state, I fear that this end will remain a wasteland for some decades or two, such as many mountains, many mountainous and mountainous areas, because the lack of infrastructure projects and insufficient quality of each life have contributed simply to people going for a more comfortable life going to other parts. So it's very important that all of this is happening, and it's very important that this fast internet that will come into these mountainous and mountainous areas, and it's very important that every investment that opens up that space, which allows people from that space to simply see themselves and the future of their families in those parts that are infinitely, and sometimes unreally beautiful, but are also cruel, like these winter moments in the cave highlands, where it's not easy to survive under these minuses, in all that the harsh cave winter implies. Of course, it encourages all that is promised. They encourage these beginnings of solving all these important projects, and it encourages us to start enjoying the first results of all these projects at very fast times. But all that's said is that all that's already started to do is just the basics to go back to the surface, that everything that's been left to make up for six or seven decades, so that we can and in order to bring that end to the level of the republican average. I want to point out here that all of this creates preconditions for the arrival of foreign investors, for the employment of people in these environments, in these areas, and that is what we all need together in the future to do much more, much more concrete and more directly and insist on. Of course, in addition to these foreign investors, this aspect of environmental protection is also very important to us for the reasons that we have talked very much about many projects in this area, some of which have been done as is the setting up of dumps in Prepolje, but much remains to be done in order to simply have the whole space that I come from, from which we as MPs come, been with healthy air for all citizens because today Novi Pazar as the city of Republika Srpska, the most polluted, not only in this country but also in the Balkans, is probably one of the most polluted in Europe. That's what the previous research is talking about. We have mentioned this many times in Parliament, we have asked the ministry, the minister to initiate processes to stop it because they have indicators that are the greatest polluters, I have been asked as a folk MP that, let's say, this Pelletar who is the most significant air polluter, does not work by regulations, does not have permission to work, but persists from day to day, drives are included, and the citizens of New Market are increasingly inhaling unhealthy air, unskilled air, and what is unhealthy has entered both the country and the water and simply, we have been exposed to a kind of ecological threat, an ecological disaster, which can happen if something is not done, to prevent and simply prevent further pollution and to cure all the damage done, and at the expense of citizens, their rights, to breathe into the health and quality of their families where they are safe to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12199	I thank Professor Fehratovic. The word has a folk letter from the SPS parliamentary club Dr Nina Pavicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12200	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Today, we have more important agreements on the agenda, of which I would refer to two that are in a tight relationship and are related to the management of solid waste and agreement relating to the climate resistance programme and irrigation in Serbia. When we talk about agreements on the implementation of the solid waste project, one of our governments concluded with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the other with the French Development Agency. The total value of the project is 150m euros allocated to the co-financer's equal honor. In my previous presentations, I have repeatedly pointed to the importance of climate change and environmentalism. For the past century and modern times, human activities that led from one side to technological and economic progress, but on the other hand to the degradation of the environment, to the extent that healthy air has become a privilege. This problem is a global scale and requires the reaction and co-operation of all countries on a global scale, as well as the resolution of each individual local problem. It is a very important ecological awareness of each individual, so that humanity is not condemned to disappear, and in accordance with this we think that we should act globally locally. The long-term strategic goal of the Republic of Serbia is and is EU membership and it is very important for us to make progress on that path. What is important today for all of us is that at the end of last year we opened a "Class 4" Green Agenda and a sustainable link covering four chapters between Chapter 27 and Chapter 27, which is the environment and climate change. This paves the way for Serbia to improve the state of the environment through greater investment in green projects. Waste management, which is our subject today, represents the implementation of the prescribed waste management measures in the context of the collection of storage, treatment, disposal of waste including monitoring of these activities as well as the care of facilities after their closure. It is very important to establish an integrated waste management system that implies a further range of activities such as waste prevention, reduction of the amount of the same, its treatment, transport, as well as monitoring. In our country, there has not been much more importance in collecting delays, especially waste processing. A certain shift in this plan has been made in the last few years. Today, there is still no sureness to talk about the structure and quantity, and despite the large amount of processed waste, it is believed that even half of us remain in our courtyards, along the roads, in the roots of our rivers, which you will agree worryingly. Observed in the whole recycling of waste in our country is insufficient and this is one of the problems we certainly need to solve in the near future, from an economic perspective it is a chance to form in our economy a special business branch that will open a space for new jobs, increasing profits and general prosperity. Given that the costs of implementing such programmes are very high and that they require an efficient and effective waste management system, we will be supported by the experience of our partners, above all by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as by the French Development Agency. This project aims to provide modern waste management systems, contribute to a higher level of municipal services and respond to environmental challenges and situations in the solid waste sector across our country. The project consists of two parts. As part of the first, the construction of regional waste management centres in Kalenic, Sombor and Novi Varoša is projected to build four more regional centres this time in Piroth, Pozarevac, Indjija and Sremska Mitrovica. These centers will have more than 50 cities and municipalities in our country. Serbia is committed to resolving the issue of waste management and the green agenda, and the opening of Chapter 27 is an additional incentive in this direction. I would take the opportunity to praise the town of Kruševac where a major ecological issue has been solved where the most modern wastewater treatment plant has been opened. This is one of the state-of-the-art plants not in Serbia but also the wider one that solves the problem of collecting and cleaning waste water. Within this dump, the collection and all treatment of municipal waste will be brought together for six local self-governments of Rasinski and Toplici County. When we talk about an agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a concrete programme for climate resistance and irrigation in Serbia, it is important to say that Serbia is a country where agriculture is an extremely important activity with significant participation in the overall GDP with a total of 6%. Climate change, dry periods, and other disasters reflect negatively on agricultural yields. Waters are getting smaller, and in this segment is one of the key adaptation mechanisms for emerging circumstances and climate change, building irrigation infrastructures. More than 50% of the working surface is subject to flood hazards. With further work and improvement of the system, new opportunities will create economic gains and an increase in crop yields. The use of water resources to irrigate agricultural areas and of unmistakable importance not only for agriculture but also for the national economy at all. Especially today when the amount of rainfall and their timetables are increasingly a limiting factor for the organisation of agricultural production. The project between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the second phase of a climate change and irrigation programme in Serbia and concerns building a basic irrigation infrastructure in Ruma and Sremska Mitrovica, totaling 15m euros. The possibility of developing a irrigation system in Serbia is high, but development is largely dependent on available funding. For this reason, it is very important to confirm these agreements, because ecologically being pure will be imperative in the period ahead of us. From that, the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposals on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12201	I thank Dr. Pavicevic. The word is made by Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12202	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers today are before us the draft laws concerning most of the loans concerning the construction of infrastructure projects that are of great and immeasurable importance for both the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, because infrastructure projects are directly linked to the better quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and the better standard of living of every man in the Republic of Serbia. What I have to point out is that there are over 65,000 construction sites in the Republic of Serbia today. Serbia is one big construction site where it works, not only in Belgrade, but throughout Serbia. There is almost no place and municipality in which, since the Serbian Progressive Party took responsibility for the exercise of power, some of the facilities that are in the general interest of citizens of the local self-government have not been built. I must point out that by 2012 at the time of the national money robbers, the tycoon Dragan Gilas in Serbia was only a total of 1,500 sites. Well, respected citizens, make the difference between 1,500 construction sites and 65,000 construction sites, as much as there are today in Serbia. Of course, I must point out that by 2012, a yellow tycoon company headed by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic robbed Serbia and Serbian citizens of 100 billion euros. Everything that generations have created and should have left their children a yellow tycoon power in 12 years has destroyed. And not only destroyed, in their time they conducted robbery privatisations. At the time, workers shut themselves down in their factories, strike hunger, but there were those workers who cut off body parts to show one complete infirmity in front of what was happening to them, and that was that their factories were given into debauchery, and they were going out on the street. More than 400,000 workers by 2012 at the time of the government of Dragan Gilas, the one who would like to return to power today, but not for the sake of Serbian citizens, but solely for the sake of his personal interest, approach to the budget and put that budget in his personal pockets. At that time 400,000 people were out of work, but it's not just 400,000 people, it's mostly times four, because all these people had their families. Also, I must point out that the yellow tycoon and the bank robber, Dragan Gilas, who would like to return to power today left a debt in the Belgrade budget of one billion and 200m euros. I also have to point out that, except that he was absolutely insensitive to the needs of the citizens, he was particularly insensitive to the most vulnerable and vulnerable categories of the population, and these were both pregnant women and families who he left with 400 million in debt, those were users of social protection that he had left with a debt of 120 million, they were parents of children who were enrolling in kindergartens, and he was charging that price at double the amount, of course parents sued it, and the state, the city of Belgrade had to pay it back, but Gilasa was not perfectly interested because he didn't return it from his own pocket. Dragan Djilas, a man who would now be through Ponos, by means of Jankovic, by means of Marinika Tepic, is the destroyer and destroyer, and the hater of this country and this people. The only thing he has sympathy and empathy for is his own pocket, because he's got a fortune of 617m euros at the time of government. I will now move on to these infrastructure projects, to the politics of Alexander Vukic, to the policy of progress, to development policy, to the policy of connecting every municipality and city in the Republic of Serbia, to the politics of new jobs, to the politics of new cradles and to the politics of life in the Republic of Serbia. Infrastructure projects related to both Moravsky and the Fruskogorski Corridor are of immeasurable importance to all residents living on this road for the reason that new highways will come to investors, which will create new jobs, which people will remain in their seats and will have no need to go anywhere further. Moravia corridor at 112km is the most modern highway and the widest highway. It's two metres longer than any other highway, it's 30 meters wide. He's completely digitized. Half a million people live on the route from Pojat to Preljina, but there are 20,000 businesses to whom this highway means. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know, is that people in Čačka, Kraljen, Vrnjačka Banja, Tristenik, Kraševec, Stalać, Ćivac, will no longer have to look at the sky when they sow their crops in the fields for the purpose of making a 68km coastal fort, which will certainly mean the inability to swim the fields and the inability to sow crops that farmers in this location, on this part of the crew's highway. Also, I would like to say that apart from the Moravia Corridor located in the heart of Serbia, it connects three districts and is located on three Morava, South, West and Great. It is, in fact, a bond between Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, and it is of immeasurable importance for both passengers and business businessmen, as well as for business speeds, as well as for citizens as regards safety and security. Also, I must point out that it is of immeasurable importance and highway "Milos Veliki", of the immeasurable importance of opening the 11.5km highway Preljina - Pakorache, which means for all of us who come from that part of Serbia, that means for the citizens of Cačka, because this will mean traffic releases, but of course another 11km of this time faster reach Požega, to Užica, to Prepolje, to Priboj, to Nova Varosha. I must point out that the municipality from which I come, Pryboy, and at all, that end of Prepolje, Nova Varosh, Sjenica, the municipalities in which yellow tycoons and those representing themselves as quasi elite, almost never came, or when they came, would mostly come before the elections, scattered some dust and lie, because the lie was the basis of the policy of the yellow tycoon enterprise, there was nothing of it. The only one who has come and visited these places many times, who has listened to the citizens and listened to their needs is Alexander Vukic. During his visit to Novi Varoša, he also visited the newly opened "Zivko Ljujic" elementary school. It's one of the most modern schools in Serbia. It's a school with new cabinets, it's a school that has a new pool, it's a school that can, in any case, boast with many schools located in much larger cities. Also, I would like to say that when President Aleksandar Vukic went to the villages to hear the villagers, to hear the ordinary citizen, to hear what their problems were and to find solutions to those problems. Everything he's promised has come true. By 2012, among other things, those who would return to power today were not keeping any of the promised. Unfortunately, citizens, they lied, but the citizens recognized it, and in 2012, they sent them into history. I think that citizens know well that there is no major disaster that has hit the Republic of Serbia since the disaster of the rule of the yellow Thai company Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Jeremic, Stefanovic, Boris Tadic, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia know well whose side and work and responsibility it is that the politics of Aleksandra Vukic that Serbia is first, that the policy of Aleksandra Vukic is the opening of new factories, that the creation of new jobs, that the politics of Aleksandra Vukic would not be employed and that people live from their work, that the politics of Aleksandra Vukic is that each municipality has optimal conditions for development and optimal conditions for employment so that people from these less developed municipalities would not go to bigger places. At the time of Dragan Gilas Pribo, Prijepolje, Nova Varas and Sjenica, they were called the valleys of famine and they were the valleys of famine. Once again, if by some chance, which is not possible, Dragan Gilas, the hater and destroyer of Serbia, would have returned to power again, it would have been the valleys of hunger, but I think the whole of Serbia would have been, in fact, one starving and devastated country, and Dragan Gilas would have been even richer, richer to buy another football club. Also, I would like to point out that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic was also coming to Sjenica and there to talk to these hillbillies, with these citizens, one of the few statesmen who came to the area. Dragan Djilas and Boris Tadic were probably afraid of the high and low temperatures that are characteristic of the region. I must point out that thanks to Alexander Vukic's policy in Sjenica, the state's most modern elementary school will cost 10.5m euros. It's a 21st century school. Also, I must point out that both Sjenica and Pryboy and Prepolje and Nova Varosh will be connected to the pipeline, to the cheapest, of course, and purest fuel. What was done in the field of ecology right in this area of Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varosh is that. For 20 years, they watched a dump in “Stavina. ” It was an environmental bomb. The "Steins" are otherwise located near the Prepolje on the main road to the southern Adriatic, on the main road leading to the Millesev monastery, where there is a fresco of the White Angel. Twenty-year-old yellow tycoons at the time of the government were looking at it and didn't do anything. This government and this government have done everything, that is, the dump has been rescheduled. The greenery was planted, the coast was built for Lima fort and, of course, it was still done. These bill proposals also approve funds for a recycling centre that will be in Banjaca, Nova Varoš municipality and which will cover four municipalities – Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš and Sjenica, and there is a regional dump “Deep” in Užica, which is also being invested by the state in order to extend and restore it. I don't think Serbian citizens have a dilemma on April 3rd. Serbian citizens are due to vote in favour of labour, order, responsibility and progress policy on April 3rd, which is the politics of Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. That policy has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12203	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15 hours and five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12204	We're going back to work. The next reported MP is Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12205	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens who follow television transmission from the National Assembly, here come another election and often in Serbia the elections are fateful. Unfortunately, we don't have this normal electoral political cycle to negotiate, talk about programmes, talk about ideas, talk about Serbia's vision, maybe accept some criticism by the opposition, maybe look at it, see where something wasn't good, fix it, because every criticism, as well as in life, well-intentioned criticism, a positive and well-intentioned man, changes it for the better. Unfortunately, we do not have it in Serbia and so much is the job that Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia are doing here and all the officials of the ruling majority are trying, because on the other hand there are no well-intentioned ones who are willing to support the good thing and that they are criticising maybe something that is not good or because they think that they can do better or have an idea that we can do better, but on the other hand we have an opponent, I would say, not a political opponent, but a real enemy and an opponent who wants to bring down this country, who wants to bring Serbia down in the right sense of that word, who wants to ride again on the back of Serbian citizens, who wants to put their hands, dirty hands, in the pockets of citizens, who felt that the register is full of state, that there is money. Now, you'd be the same to come back and ride again at everything that Serbia and the Serbian people have done in the past ten years. All the hard and difficult reforms that have been carried out, all the roads that have been built, all over 300 factories, all these hundreds of thousands of new jobs that have been opened in the last decade, someone wants to put back on the state it was until 2012. Often in Belgrade, too, we hear that if they, and I say don't give God, come to power again in the city of Belgrade that everything will be returned to what it was like to leave Dragan Gilas as mayor, or as mayor of Belgrade. He was never the mayor, the mayor took care of his city, took care of the needs of citizens. He was a thief because he only stole, kidnapped and robbed citizens of Belgrade, including those from a circle of two who are calling for him to be back with some people, as they say, they do not have experts but have teams, have teams for robbery and kidnapping, teams that will come back and crash in Belgrade, destroy, break down what was built and built in previous years. Citizens of Serbia, it was not easy to build. It was meant to be squeezed, to have the guts, to carry out heavy reforms, to be painful, to not be popular, to people who don't like them at that moment, but that's why citizens always like the result, because that means more money for them, that means better health care, better schooling, that means safer country, a safer future for every man who lives in it. This is the result of reforms implemented by Aleksandar Vukic, a brave statesman in Serbia, I would say perhaps the best and greatest statesman Serbia has in its modern history. The biggest is because he had the courage to stand up to the mob and crime in the last 30 years alone, and when you do, when you declare war on criminals, and not only the target of the tycoon, not the target of the paid tabloids, portals and everyone else who can't wait to fire on a statesman like Vukic, you really become the target of the real mob, the one who lives to take your head off. What would that mean for Serbia I shouldn't even speak? For Serbia, if Alexander Vukic were not in the position of the President of the Republic, it would mean a return to the worst time of this country. At a time when Serbia may not even have been a state anymore, when Serbia was only fulfilling what was delivered to it on the right hand that it had to implement, when Serbia was fulfilling and working for other people's interests not for its own, when Serbia was actually working for someone else's interest in the interests of some other people, other countries. There is no more in Serbia today. Today we have a president of the Republic who doesn't meet the requirements, doesn't meet the directives that someone would like, but who meets the wishes of his people, and above all, that desire to live better in this country, and that is seen through the standard, it is seen through the growth that we have achieved, only in the previous year, 7.5%. In this year we expect 4.5%. I believe more than 4.5%. You can see that through those 300 factories that I mentioned, through hundreds of miles of highways, through 10 highways and other fast traffic that we do, a total of 12. That's what you can see through the fact that we didn't have a railroad once, so they said I was crazy and silly, because I said we didn't have a railroad at the time. I don't know if the train goes 30 an hour when you're a few hours late. Is that a railroad when you have in the modern world trains that go 200-300 an hour? It certainly wasn't a railroad. They had time to take care of the train station too, to take care of trains, but their trains passed and left and never came back, because the order of the Serbian citizens is being arranged. Now that citizens of Serbia are wondering about the biggest among us and when Alexander Vukic is asked, the mafia will no longer be in power in Serbia, nor will those who cheer for the mafia, nor will those who help the mafia, nor will those who have common jobs and dealings with them. They will not be able to remove Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who will not be able to bring Serbia down, will not be able to bring her back to the darkest times we remember in Serbia from 2000 to 2012 when various shifts were taking place, but essentially one and the same yellow story has ruled for 12 years. They won't be able to fool us now, I don't know who else they can fool with the story when Gilas comes out and runs for office and says who can win the election, who has the least negative points. When you suggest, that one has the worst points, everyone you propose. The one behind you, as the biggest thief in this country, with 619 million stolen, surely that person has no morals and honor in himself if she allowed the biggest thief in Serbia to propose for any function. She has neither morale nor honor in herself nor the person who agreed that Marinika Tepic, who believes that the Serb people are a genocide people, the one who agrees to be on that list, has no morals or honors and is certainly not fair and certainly not well-intentioned, so he was wronged to be on those lists and to be a candidate and such coalitions that he wants to mark Serbia as a genocide state. You know what that would mean for Serbia. That would be the end of this country. It would be devised further any policy-making in Serbia if you had the authority to say -- yes, Serbs committed genocide, the state of Serbia took part in that. That would be the end for all of us. There would be no future for anyone in this country. They don't care. They're looking at everything in the short term, so they're arming themselves for six months. There, we'll have six months, Serbian citizens, to show you what we can do. We saw it in 12 years. Now with all the experience they have, the robbery experience, in six months more, faster and stronger, they would rob this country. This is what Serbian citizens cannot possibly allow to happen on April 3rd. Also, you see their intentions towards the country they live in and towards the people, when they announce bloody conflicts, when they announce the rekindling of Belgrade, when they announce they will destroy, destroy. They announce it for April 3rd, after polling stations are closed. They say in advance – we won the elections. They want chaos in the streets because they know the elections cannot win the votes of Serbian citizens. That's quite clear. Why do you need aggression? Any announcement of any conflict, any threat, if you have any chance of winning the election? And who can win the election when they have candidates like they have? Look at this unfortunate pride. He is unhappy for the citizens of Serbia, and he is very happy for himself, because we have heard about all the properties he has acquired on Vratsar and who knows what else will reveal to him in the next period of time about what everything is and how he acquires, because surely the Army is not destroyed for free. It all had a price to pay. Surely it wasn't he who had the Croatian passport and led the Serbian Army who didn't accidentally destroy that army. He wasn't doing it out of love, he was doing it out of love for money. On the other hand, you have a candidate for mayor of Belgrade who says himself -- I have no idea how to run the city, but I know I'm going to set up professional people who are going to resurrect this city. How is it that if you have no idea what you're doing, you know how to choose professional people to lead it? He knows who will choose him and who will choose him. They already say and speak. We will propose to the unfortunate drunk Jankovic a team who will lead, and he will say what he thinks. He's no longer in a position to say what he thinks objectively for many reasons, because someone who says - I need to consult with a doctor whether I'm going to accept some candidacy. Sam said he's not professional, he's out of health. There's a lot of reasons to talk, and there's a lot of reason not to talk. If you let Gilas and Marinika be your mentors, then you're twice as unhappy. When you have a Marinika Tepic who sees chickens, dealers in Morovic and everything else, who wants to declare Serbia genocide, I said, it is the holder of the parliamentary list. Imagine the Assembly in which you have a person who is the head, candidate for prime minister, or at all, that such a municipality and the Assembly finds himself to be the head of any parliamentary group in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, who believes this state is genocide. Would that also happen in one European Parliament if such a list could cross the line? There are extremists everywhere. I'm not naive that there are no extremists in Europe or in the world who have all kinds of crazy ideas. With dim ideas, you can't get enough votes to find yourself in such a tall home as the National Assembly. That's what I hope, that everything they do, everything they do will be brought down to the level of their dirty imagination, that they will not be able to do what they want with their imagination, that is to bring down Serbia, and not because Serbian citizens stand behind Alexander Vukic and behind the policy he leads and who will know that they are saving both their president and their country. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12206	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, according to my distinguished counterpart, Serbia's Filipovic, this session is immediately ahead of an early parliamentary election, regular presidential elections, Belgrade elections. Yesterday we had a law that literally led the ruling parties into the electoral process. Today we have in the debate certain laws relating to investments and sources of financing of these investments. Of course, as before each election, many topics are being opened. Many topics have suddenly become important and the former regime in every way is trying to either increase its results while in power or reduce the results of the current government, the results of the SNS and the president of the Republic of Serbia, SNS President Aleksandar Vukic. It's all legitimate, but I can say that it's really the ultimate insolence of what's done. Rarely in my political career, I have seen such reckless untruths that have been brought forth, and when it comes to the results that the Republic of Serbia has several years back. Of course, today we are discussing road infrastructure again, financing corridors across Serbia. Ten and more highways are being built at this time and there will always be a question, that is, the former regime is asking a question – and what do we need roads for? Where there's no roads, there's no life. There is neither development nor prosperity, and in the end there are no people. As long as Serbia has advanced as a state that can finance the construction of its traffic infrastructure, the fact that here is the beginning of a fast-road construction project from the payment ramp in Pozarevec to the municipality of Golubac. It'll be a quick journey along with the Fireman and the Big City. A dove who only knows about the Golubak fortress, one large majority of our citizens, but you can imagine that one of the smallest municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, by the number of inhabitants, has barely 10,000 inhabitants, has a fast road. The road that's for that little town, for those people out there, means life. The price of that once is about 300m euros, something about 70km is that share. Now, you can imagine how the former regime treated regions and even regional development. How much was the Ada Bridge? More than two fast road payment ramps of Firefighter-Dovec. In our public, I guess again in this desire to reduce or display the results, in the wrong way, is constantly talking about some kind of "biosgradation". That is why we are being attacked by those who have exclusively used Belgrade for their personal wealth. Several of my colleagues spoke of the 600m euros and some million euros that Gilas stole while he was mayor of Belgrade. It is natural that a large number of citizens want to move from within to Belgrade, because Belgrade as the capital, as a major city, offers a better chance of a certain success. And what does SNS and Alexander Wolf do again? Through the construction of transport infrastructure, it tries to give all of Serbia's regions, all of Serbia's citizens, the possibility of choosing not to have to leave their property, come to Belgrade or larger centres or, even moreover, to go west, to profit or temporary work with which they usually never return. If one such municipality such as Golubac gets such a one time trip, I can only imagine what is in the rest of Serbia, how it is built and how Serbia is trafficked together and allows these residents to find a job, achieve their ambitions, achieve their goals, and ultimately, what is most important, stay where they are now. The second topic that is constantly being opened in public, in my opinion, quite undeservedly, is related to the protection of the environment. We have constantly some examples of how the Alexander Vukic regime has done nothing about protecting the environment, so that they would have done much better in power, so that Belgrade would be a minor ecological oasis, a green city, etc. I'm just asking a simple question - and why didn't you do it while you were in power? Who was that defending you? What prevented you from doing that? Or was it more important, of course, to steal 600 million euros? It seems to have been the primary objective of the former regime. It is not true that nothing is done to protect the environment. In the last year alone, we've had several examples that a large number of unhygienic and wild dumps have been closed, that it's been cleaned, that a large number of sanitary dumps have been built, that with today's laws, we allow funding of wastewater treatment plants. Our local self-government in most cases can't do it alone without the help of the Republic. Also, solid municipal waste is being solved, again with these laws. And it's not the topics that were extorted from the former regime, but it was planned to have a goal, to justify the funds, and not to the purpose of the election campaign. However, I must say that right now one current topic is inflation that exists in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Again, it is trying to show that inflation is much bigger and much worse than it is, and I still have to ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia - did it accumulate electricity? It's not. Did it pick up the heat? It's not. Did he pick up the gas? It's not. Has the state put under control and stopped the rise in the price of food? Yes, it is. Well, what kind of catastrophic inflation are those of the former regime talking about? They found that glee from Shoskovic, an unfortunate governor, a puppet who was during the former regime, that he is now attacking the results of both monetary and fiscal policies and inflation. You know what? What he's saying, in my opinion, is not like a former governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It looks more like one of the most common grandmothers to me, and in some stages of his discussions, it's even more like Mr. Bin from English humorist series. He's attacking everything he gets. Let's see what Mr. Bin's results are called Soskic, while he was governor of the National Bank of Serbia. He took office in 2010. Many citizens do not know, but the most important business of the central bank is inflation control and predicting inflation flows to move the economy. In 2010, inflation, during the famous Mr. Bin Šoškovic, was 8.6%. In 2011, watch out, the full capacity of the governor of the National Bank, all year behind it, inflation was 11%. In 2012, inflation was 8%. These are the results of Governor Mr. Bin Shoskovic. If we look at some of his other results, i.e. the results of the government he was elected from, we can see that in 2010, the number of employees in Serbia was 2,396,000 and 2,2533,000 in 2011. Does 11% of inflation have anything to do with 140 and some thousand newly unemployed or job losses? Of course there is. In 2012, the number was 2,228,000, to jump to 2,310,000 after only one year from the government to the number of employees in Serbia. Let us explain to us former Governor Mr. Bin Soskic how that, during his rule and his conduct of monetary policy, so many people in Serbia lost their jobs and so much inflation was, which means two years from now, close to 20%? We can also present some other information during the work of Governor Shoskovic. For example, direct investment in 2010 was a billion 278 million. In 2011, three billion 544. Someone would think, so you see, that's great, three and a half billion foreign direct investments, if you didn't know what was behind that amount, and that's two billion euros for which Miskovic sold Delesa "Maxi". So the real foreign direct investment for 2011 was about a billion and a half euros. We will always use ourselves with such aspirations and replace them, to show how the former regime was better than the authority led by Aleksandar Vukic. We can go back to the number of employees. According to our Bureau of Statistics, in 2020 the number of employees was 2,894.800, while in 2012, when they ceased to exercise power, it was 2.228.000. So the difference is 670,000, or even more than 2008, for 70,000 employees, when the former regime took over the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In his very funny thesis, Mr. Soskovic argues that the European Central Bank is to blame for the growth of our foreign reserves. It's not the credit. The fact that our foreign reserves are increasing is not due to policies being implemented in the territories of the Republic of Serbia, but, behold, the European Central Bank has printed money, so some of that money has ended up in Serbia as well. It just avoids saying that the Republic of Serbia had no way of reaching this primary European Central Bank show and that the only countries that received that money were over-indebted countries in the euro zone to pay off existing loans and that they had to pay back that money to the European Central Bank. So it's not the classic, primary show Mr. Soshkovic was doing. He says that the results of this inflation, is that inflation was imported, but he also had imported inflation in 2010 and 2011, so I just have to ask what kind of inflation? The EU countries and the Euro zones were then struggling to boost inflation. There was no inflation, but it was in Serbia and in any case. Do you know why there was inflation in Serbia? Because of the decline in the value of the dinar, because every businessman, everyone in a row, accounted for the price of their product and services and exchange rates that could occur at any moment. So, for one serious drop in GDP and one serious fall of employees in Serbia, of course, it bears the responsibility of the Central Bank of the time and its governor, Soskic. I have to remind the citizens of Serbia, in 2010, inflation was 8.6%, 11%. The order would be if Mr. Soskovic had been honest with Serbian citizens if he said he had printed the dinars, that that's why inflation existed, that there was therefore an unstable dinar, and that he was doing it for reasons to pay public sector wages and to pay out pensions, and through inflation and the loss of the value of the dinar compared to the euro, all that increased was worth losing before those people to whom it was intended. That's what the former regime is for. If you look at these social networks and portals that are funded and the good part of the policy carried out by Dragan Gilas, you will find one truly frantic claim. I'm interested. There's a colleague from the pensioner's party. Since they are aware that in the upcoming elections they cannot produce the result that they want and expect and that they will not come to power and regain the state registers, they suggest that other than that constitutional minimum to go to elections, which is to be legally capable, at the age of 18, that a maximum number of years be determined so that a citizen may go to elections, because, apparently, citizens who are many years old, as it goes in that series, an extra-constitutional category, so they should be banned from voting, possibly even the right to live, so that, well, then they may, perhaps, fix their results in the elections. They should be ashamed. They should be ashamed, because they obviously don't appreciate what the citizens think. They do not care about the assessment that the citizens will also give to us who are now in power and to those who have exercised power. They don't even care about the results they have. They don't care about the results we have. They don't care about Serbia either, but only one naked struggle to get a chair, but not a chair because of their comfort, not a chair because of their responsibility to the citizens and to the state, but a chair to pick up where they left off in 2012, which is to make them richer again, to sell "Telecom" to Solak. Since he's already bought a football club, what's only one Telecom for him to make them richer. Serbian citizens to be even poorer. The more they go from Serbia to abroad, the easier, the less worry they'll get, if they want to come, of course, and if they don't, all of this will be theirs and they'll be undisturbed rulers. This desire is not preceded by anything, by insulting the family of the president of Serbia, now saying that we do not, as if we have amnesia and memory loss, as they are calling for the violent takeover of power, not only the burning of the Assembly, as they did in 2000, but also if they need a sniper rifle. Remember only those headlines of certain Sunday newspapers, “Nina”, etc. where the sniper is pointed at the president's chest. It's all been happening, I'm not saying any hypothesis, no theory. This was really in Serbia. This has really happened in Serbia now they say it's nothing. It's nothing because they want the result to be positive. And I'm very interested in who's going to be blaming them again that April 3rd when the polls start coming in. Whether it will be their fault, whether they will be blamed for Alexander Vukic and the dictatorship he is conducting, as they say or will be to blame themselves. I think that citizens in the election give each of us an assessment, every political party, every political participant, and with that assessment, we have to make peace and accept it. That's what we think who want to be serious about politics. If we don't like the result of seeing what we did wrong and whether there might be a mistake in us. Those who violently want to take power always see a mistake in someone else to justify the violence they're about to commit. I am absolutely sure that on April 3rd, citizens will vote for an extension of the reforms carried out by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and that citizens of Serbia can be completely calm, we will not allow their electoral will to change by violent means.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12208	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12209	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, it is an honor and pleasure to have the opportunity to speak after respected colleagues on a number of topics that have occurred in the past time period, and it is an honor and pleasure to talk about today's agenda points that we have in today's session. Because all of us together in this session and in today's session are involved in creating something big, something important to solve the decades-old problems that exist in Serbia, and it is not how some people like to say, some media, some political circles, debt slavery or what they are trying negatively to get out of all processes that exist in Serbia, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all public enterprises that will carry out the contracts, agreements and to the satisfaction of the citizens of Serbia, tomorrow make fast roads, highways, fast trains, faster Internet in Serbia, solve decades of problems that concern accumulated waste, wild dumps in Serbia and all other requirements that we can hear in the full spectrum of political and social scenes in the Republic of Serbia, regardless of whether it is in the area of opposition or ruling. We all want the same things and we find ways to solve certain problems, with this government, this assembly majority, this assembly faster, more effectively, unburdened by some excessive debates here in parliament being able to support such projects. We will leave behind built kilometers and miles of highways, fast roads, high-speed railways, infrastructure works that have never been launched in Serbia. This is the result, the material result of one government, one period, well, and all the assembly assemblies that participated in such support from the changes that occurred in 2012 to today. If it's difficult for someone, here, I'm going to give a little company, given that we have these on-call critics who, by their own agenda, have their own obligations towards their financials, let's say, attack the People's Republic of China and our arrangements that we have with their state-owned bank, the arrangements that are extremely favourable to Serbia, because it's an external political agenda, to say, the Western centres of power and those who favor that political group to do anything bad for the People's Republic of China, which is one of our strategic partners in our foreign policy agenda, which has brought a lot of good to the Republic of Serbia, certainly companies representing companies from the People's Republic of China and all other companies of course. If they need some other company they don't have to go far, let them go to the Republic of Croatia, let's say, and let them analyze how, under what conditions and how much responsibility the Republic of Croatia has to build its highway network. Some have analyzed how Serbia did it, then there will be a very simple formulation that we are in an extremely favourable and short-term and long-term period. What's extremely important to say is that we don't leave debts. It is one credit arrangement, and we leave roads in which our people today in Serbia, their children, tomorrow their grandchildren, will use it to their satisfaction in terms of better and better quality life. That's why we're doing this, not to hurt anyone, or to bring Serbia, God forbid, into debt slavery. It's a key thing. Given that everything bothers them, it is important to point out that what I just said, that they have a problem with it, here, and President Vukic is going back to China, has built excellent relations, and how important this is for every position both in foreign and in the position of KIM as part of the Republic of Serbia. Those who don't understand it, who don't value it, don't know anything about politics and they don't know anything about Serbia or KIM or my Republika Srpska, they don't mean anything. They're talking to those who don't, too, and we don't mind in that context. They are bothered by everything, as I can see, being bothered by today and the president of the Republic of Serbia has received our Serb Novak Djokovic, the best tennis player of all time, and that bothers them. Until a month ago, he was glified, and when he met with his president, who stood by him when it was the hardest and daily communication, and when they discussed development projects, about support for new tournaments in the Republic of Serbia. They mention some things about the ground on "25. Mayu’. Supporting Novak Djokovic, his organisation, is as little as he has given for Serbia. What did they give for Serbia? Where they represented Serbia, it left only misery, which also misery, humiliation, in the way they represented. Novak Djokovic, representing Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic representing Serbia, tells of it all the world that values those things that can be characterized in a developmental sense. Perhaps it is best to look at some weekly Swiss, who have spoken and written over the past month, which are very neutral, politically colored in terms of ruling, have nothing to do with Serbia in terms of any arrangements of foreign-political, financial that they are doing something here. They talked about the miracle that is happening in the Western Balkans, about Serbia's development, they spoke very well of Alexander Vukic. No one has ordered that text in those weeks, as they order in their own weekbooks. As we can see, everything bothers them, and every day they no longer have a theme, they recycle them, etc., but as we could see yesterday, they are now bothered by the new, better electoral conditions they sought, so they wonder last night in information shows why this assembly of parliament is changing electoral conditions. I mean, it's real, I don't know how I could call that hypocrisy. So they searched, negotiated, dragged these by the sleeve from Europe, protested here in different ways. We fill them with everything they want, they get it, and then they ask, why are we changing regulations? To help you. I wonder, I would never have let, here, have that group, yesterday represented those candidates, as far as I've seen, there are ten parties. For these ten parties, the censorship is 3%, not for each party by 3%, but for these parties, and they gather. It's hard, you understand, 3% is a big number, it's a big support, it's a huge number of people who need to round up your political group, and even a dozen parties in line on that side to make sure you do. I'm not a bit sarcastic, it's just a strategic move that needs to be supported, but it would be perfectly fine for us and for all the MPs who will vote tomorrow and for those who have been in the past, who have made it possible for them. But it's hypocritical that you attack what you're looking for. I have a comparative analysis, I don't have time to read it, what election legislation is in the region. None for the opposition is favourable, not near, as it is now in the Republic of Serbia. Is it a little bit? Well, I don't know what else we're going to do for your campaign, vote for you, so you have more votes. That's all that's left. Every day we see that they're on RTS. They'll have their members in RIK, REM, wherever they want, controllers. All they have to do is get the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, obviously it's a big problem. They complain about RTS more often, they complain about Telecom. Take the remote, dear viewers, and check the channels from 1st to 30th, and you will see that most channels have an editorial information policy that is either neutral or against the ruling set in Serbia. Now that I've listed everything, if I don't speak this segment of them around SBB, United Media, etc. That's amazing. I mean, from the new media, which I wouldn't like to list here, last night I saw some media from the region that so much, they got positions great, they talk so badly here about power and they're in Telecom's offer. The first news last night on these information channels that suddenly appear now as mushrooms and are offered "Telecoma", is the story of a united opposition in Serbia represented by only one group and their glorfication. It's all okay, and they're complaining. So I think they have some other problem. It's my subjective opinion, which is that they don't know how much space they have to show what they know and what they can do, offer quality content, offer a program, say what the solution is, which is why they're better, how they're going to solve it. Here, yesterday at that press conference, Ponos, Tepic, Jankovic we heard nothing, we barely heard a few flossules spoken, not to mention the laps that talk enough about them as they know Belgrade and what they want to say, so some people see the cemetery. We're seeing development projects, and that's what's the key thing, and we've turned our visualizations into real, concrete solutions. We've been looking for financial structures, and we're done. What we promise to do and do. Another thing I want to say is what bothers them, which has now become a favorite story on social networks, I think it will go very quickly on these informative shows of theirs, which is reporting voters from BiH and Republika Srpska. They say, they will apply, there are those who say that a million Serbs from Republika Srpska, I would like so many Serbs in Republika Srpska, unfortunately and there are the consequences of demographically great, that they will vote in the elections in the Republic of Serbia. There are those who say more modestly that it will be tens of thousands, but now to take advantage of this pay phone so that I can just say one comparative, so that I'll kill all that kind of, let me say, fake stories that have already been told for several days, that someone is falsely reporting here, that voters from BiH and Republika Srpska are pumping up, and allegedly, it's the SNS's electoral body, and there's going to be some kind of imbalance. Please, the same story was in last year's 2020 election, we can copy those texts, copy-paisy to make. Do you know the total number of voters who voted not from Republika Srpska, but from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the embassy and the DKP network last time? Something over four thousand. If four thousand voters from Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina will decide on presidential elections, parliamentary or local in any local community, then it only says how much they missed the topic, how much they don't deal with at all, how far they're not prepared in this kind of story. They even called some press conferences, so I heard from, I think, Tepicke that she said, "From Lopar, 2,000 registered in Belgrade." Well, ma'am, you've never been to Loparas. I mean, that's great when they all go out there together, so when they hold some elections, that's great turnout. So, please, let's sort things out here. I have to say one thing that doesn't bother them at all. It bothers them that now several thousand voters, I am fully confident, mostly supporting Alexander Vukic, because the most popular politician in Republika Srpska, a Serbian politician, of all politicians in the region is Aleksandar Vukic. So they've got these agencies, they're investigating it all the time, and they can see it. They may also stab a voice, not at all, but it is the mood of the people, because the mood of our people in Republika Srpska is going in that direction to value national Alexander Vukic's policy and all the support he has given to Republika Srpska, if you will, and the help it has been provided, which is not insignificant. And what, say, doesn't bother them? They do not mind that, in the institutional framework of the Republic of Croatia, every Croatian from Bosnia and Herzegovina has a Croatian housewife from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and neatly there under a column in the sector that they have related to the diaspora of votes in the general parliamentary elections in the Republic of Croatia. They don't have a problem with that. You know how, when they were here in power until 2012, they introduced some fees for dual citizenship, no one could get it alive, now the little process has been accelerated. Honestly, that's very modest. I don't know what the problem is. The special parallel relationship agreement allows us to do so. What is the problem with all those who wish, a large number of Republika Srpska citizens having property, especially in Belgrade, Novi Sad, in some other environments and of course want to use their rights, but this is about reporting voters in the DKP network, for example, in this case in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is an extremely complicated process. I had to explain it today. Why? Because you, in addition to getting dual citizenship, must come to Serbia to remove your personal documents, and then to vote in the DKP network you must also sign up. There are not so many enthusiasts, to say, who are willing to participate in an election process, and so many thresholds to get to the point where they only get that right. There are more of them, but don't make those people drive us here and send some kind of story that some Bosnians are coming to Serbia to make an election will. It's very ugly, especially when you talk about Serbs from Republika Srpska, because they are very offended by that kind of story, and on the other hand, be fully convinced that no honorable Serb, Republika Srpska patriot, will vote for Ponos in elections, because no one is for NATO, no one is for this other Serb Serbia, in terms of this story that disgusts everything that is national, and that's the problem. You have spoken to your electoral body, we have no problem, we will also try to communicate with these people, that we can lead a broad national single policy that will sublime the interests of all groups in Serbia, but we cannot go against national interests and that is what the key is. I see there's a lot going on in this campaign, and it hasn't started yet. I must say, I'm surprised that the church faces of dignitaries and bishops have already joined this campaign. I never spoke in my speech of any church dignitary, of a bishop or an honorable father, etc. But I'm really amazed, I took some newspapers today, I see that the bishop of Gregory has already joined the campaign, I see that he is promoting candidates for Belgrade, this Jankovic and says he is delighted with his programme. And now that magazine came out today, and yesterday was a press conference. This interview was done a few days ago. I don't understand how he knew which programme that Jankovic was, when he represented him yesterday for the first time. Wait, are they all on a relationship in this kind of story or are they all representing that kind of story together? Can someone explain it to me, I couldn't explain it to myself. Here, I'm a Christian detachment, Orthodox. I have this title that says, "All the wounds in Belgrade hurt me. Perhaps there is salvation in Vladeta Jankovic," so isn't it, the congratulatory bishop, the salvation in Jesus Christ? What government or anyone else? Isn't salvation in Christ, if we're Christians, not in some government Jankovic? This is a shame. You share by trusting the people in political groups. You must represent unity, as is our patriarch. In that sense, I want to say that I was proud to be part of this call, that we supported the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, to make all the projects in peace here a lot faster and advocacy, that infrastructure works and all these responsibilities could be more effectively realised, and that the satisfaction of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by building new traffic stations, new infrastructure works would be as much more so as possible, that their lives would be as high-quality as possible, and that they in some elections tomorrow, so that on April 3rd and sometimes in the future, they value us just as much as we have contributed to an independent, sovereign Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12210	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The word is Milos Bandur.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12211	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Nedimovic, co-worker and colleague, I am particularly pleased to discuss laws today, i.e. agreements that develop both municipal infrastructure and invests in protecting the environment, road infrastructure, or traffic infrastructure, but also educational infrastructure. This set of laws, i.e. an agreement whose confirmation today is best spoken on the agenda, which is the way Serbia is going and how wrong those in these segments are contesting our progress. Of course, it seems to me that the most important thing is the sewage and wastewater treatment plant in Belgrade. Belgrade is our largest city and the spilling of feces in Sava and Danube is an extremely dangerous threat to the health of citizens and the environment. The 220m-euro project is divided into two stages, the first of which is worth 204m euros. The first-stage funds will be invested in the missing sewers and collectors' infrastructures, pumping and waste water pumping stations. The funds intended for the second phase will be used for primary and secondary filtration, so that these waters can later be released into the receptives of Sava and Danube, i.e. the rivers to which they should go completely purified. Of course, this loan is taken at the Chinese state bank, which gives it under standard conditions. When it comes to wastewater, i.e. wastewater treatment and wastewater treatment, we had one item in the 2022 budget, “Clear Serbia”, where it is said – a debt of 650m euros for the management of solid municipal waste and sewage and waste water treatment is allowed. It is precisely from that position, which is the project that will be done in 11 local self-government in Serbia, where a sewage network and a waste water treatment plant will be fully built. These are, however, less local self-government, or medium size, but the amount is the same, not to object, is the same thing as 204m euros, as in the previous case for the first phase of the project in Belgrade. Otherwise, the clean Serbia project will also fund the management of solid municipal waste. With the French Development Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we owe 75m euros for projects to regulate or manage solid municipal waste in the eighth local self-government in Serbia. Four local self-governments will be provided with loans from the French Development Agency. The other four from the loan to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is about the next one. On the handling of solid municipal waste into a completely ecologically acceptable, and I would say the most modern way, as is done today in Europe. First, the local self-government will develop the primary waste selection. Then the waste will be separately collected. We in Nis already have that system in half the city. So, two buckets, one for recycling, the other for that biodegradable waste. Recyclable waste goes to a recycling centre that needs to be built, or that will be built in all these self-governments, and biodegradable goes to a dump where... etc. performs the extraction of biogases or anything that can be an energy component. The rest goes to a dump that's sanitary, which means there's a certain insulation in the land. So that waste, that final residue that's being deposited doesn't endanger land, groundwater, and the environment at all. It is a method that is among all the methods of waste treatment, the most acceptable on the ecological side, the most popular today in Europe, and also the cheapest, simplest, because one part of the waste is used for re-use, it is one that is either recycled or in Nis waste from the blue bucket, and from this other biodegradable is obtained energy, not all in the combustion plants, not burned plastics, not burning some other elements that give gases that can be harmful to the environment. The two 75m-euro loan to the two institutions will solve the problem in eight regional centres, which means the largest municipality, the Regional Waste Management Centre, and a number of smaller municipalities are the region. Of course, that waste is processed by the system, or driven by a minimum distance system, a city that is the largest, the largest, the largest waste producer and that dump, or the centre of the region, must be in its vicinity, and all of these, the smaller through the transfer stations, are brought there. These funds will be used for construction, for primary waste selection, for buying cans, for buying trucks, for vehicles which are transported by these two currently separate components to build the transfer of stations, because each municipality in its territory is handing over waste to a regional centre management company and to build the regional centre itself. So much for channeling wastewater and taking care of solid municipal waste. I am really pleased that the Law on Higher Dual Education is moving through a pilot project funded by the Council of Europe Development Bank in terms of the Air Academy, i.e. Higher schools of vocational studies where people will be educated who will be future pilots and flight controllers, as well as those who will work in businesses, or companies that are involved in repairing and monitoring aircraft. To that end, Belgrade and Vrsac, in existing facilities, are planned to have these existing facilities renovated, to equip themselves properly, to buy a flight simulator in Belgrade for "Erbas A320", one helicopter and two two-engine aircraft in Vrsac, a student home in which there will be about 300 students and is planned to be around 1,500 students at the Academy when it works at full capacity. Dual education in secondary schools already exists in Serbia and it is widely applied, but this is interesting that this will be a pilot of a dual higher education project and I think this area where people who finish school are moving to do an exceptionally responsible job, with people's lives depending on it. Young people, students of this academy, or these vocational schools, will have the opportunity to learn and work and learn through work. For this learning through work will receive an adequate fee, that is, part of some profit on which they will not pay taxes and which will be like some kind of salary. Of course, the Law on Higher Dual Education implies that in other areas, especially in schools dealing with IT, electrical engineering, engineering and high-tech technologies, a dual model will also be developed. In the end, two infrastructure significant projects. One is the Moravia Corridor that we have spoken of several times and which costs or is worth about 800m euros. We in the 2022 budget have planned a 600m-euro debt, precisely within the 800 for the needs of this corridor. We know that 432m euros has been provided by the UK Export Credit Agency, which is provided by the UK, but one remains, meaning slightly less than 400m euros is not secured and will be provided by a multilateral investment guarantee agency. The Moravski corridor is important because it connects two corridors, connects the municipalities of Ćićevac, Stalać, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kraljno and Cačak, reduces travel costs, increases traffic safety, of course, gives attractiveness to locations along the corridor in terms of investing and attracting foreign direct investment and, since we also have Vrnjačka Banja and some other spas, gives us a better chance of our domestic tourism. The French corridor is very important, since it will combine the road Novi Sad – Zrenjanin - the Romanian border, also Ruma – Shabac – Loznica, so that this part of Novi Sad – Ruma, which represents the French Corridor, will be a very important link between Western Serbia, and I would say Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina with cities in Vojvodina, i.e. in the north of the country. Of course, the advantages of one of these highways are multiple and similar to that of the Moravia Corridor. I forgot to say, and the minister is there, that we also have a 15m-euro loan concerning irrigation in the economy under the so-called "climate resistance" programme. As you can see, as our viewers can hear, the laws adopted here are not a dead letter on paper. Last year we adopted the Climate Change Act, which implies and adapts to climate change, but also increases climate resistance. What's on the agenda today, and it's 15m euros, it's actually an increase in resilience. It's about 3500 hectares of irrigation in Vojvodina, primarily under fruit and wine, because, as we can see, the climate is changing and there are more and more frequent dry periods, so there is an increased need for irrigation, both those parts that are already watering and so on for the expansion of arable areas in the Republic of Serbia that need to be equipped with irrigation systems. These 15m euros are now for this project. The first phase was realised before that, 15m euros for Negotin and Svilajnac, i.e. for systems, reconstruction, reconstruction, construction of a irrigation system in those regions, local self-government and regions. What I want to add, which I can't comment on, and it happens these days and it happens in front of all of us, what the so-called united opposition is doing, but I would say that they use the wrong name, that it's a united former government, because the opposition in Serbia has some others, some who were not the government, and here in one place all those who were the former authorities, who shared the same goals, who worked in the same way, who would again work in the same way and have the same goals, and they have now taken over, as I say, took the right for themselves to be the opposition and still give themselves the name United Opposition of Serbia. So, let's say it was a united former government and I was made laugh by a comment made by Prime Minister Jankovic, their candidate for mayor of Belgrade, who said -- you know, it's a good thing General Ponos is a candidate for Serbian president, because Serbian loves generals. Yes, the Serbian people love soldiers, but now it's a question of what kind of soldiers. Did General Ponoš one of those who attended Cer, Kolubari, participate in the Kumanov Battle, defend Koshar, defend Kosovo and Metohija, participate in the war in Republika Srpska or defend the Serbian people in Krajna. I don't think so. The people love such ones, and they do not like those who sat in cabinets, hide from war, hide from what is their duty and duty, end all NATO schools, so that when they came to the post exclusively serve the NATO Pact, not their country and their people, and by order from the NATO Pact and their offices that they opened in the Ministry of Defence, they would slowly destroy the Army of Serbia, reduce numbers, melt tanks, cannons, etc. Now, you see, if no other government had come in 2012 and Alexander Vukic had turned things around, you would have had a situation, or you would have had a situation if the Kosovo Protection Corps had been formed, that some Western states, and Turkey, were arming Kosovo Albanians, trying to build a real army out of that protective Corps, which is equipped with the most modern fighting means and, on the other hand, you would have a Serbia that disbanded its army, melted tanks, cannons, etc. and how would we negotiate with both Europe and the authorities in Pristina on Kosovo? Of course, we couldn't do anything. If Alexander Vukic hadn't economically strengthened Serbia in such a way that Serbia can buy both tanks and planes and rockets and helicopters and all it needs, that he did not create economic assumptions for military equipment, and deterring aggression is very important and powerful and armed Serbia does not want to use its military resources. She just wants to pre-warn all those who want to invade her territory, attack Kosovo and Metohija, and attack the Republika Srpska, or the Serb people living in the two entities. So let's go back to the fact that the Serbian people love generals. He likes the ones I talked about, and he doesn't like the ones who served aliens, he's educated with them, they meet all their requirements, and now they're candidates, I get the impression that again those who ran them would be able to get a team out there somewhere outside Serbia's borders and say, "Here we are, ready to do whatever you want, here's the man who did it, here we are going to lead Serbia." There has never been a clearer difference between the two candidates for the president of Serbia, although let me tell you that all those who were competing with Alexander Vukic believe that I don't remember. Here, I don't know who he was last time against the candidate. I guess those names were so pale, but I don't think it's any clearer now. On the one hand, we have our host, who simply wants good relations with everyone, but works in Serbia's interest and we have someone else's candidate that what we and Alexander Vukic have saved, surrenders without a bullet being fired to others. As for the mayoral candidate for Belgrade, I read, he said he was then Prime Minister of Kostunica, probably in 2004 and 2005, and that he does not remember, that he has no idea of "Rio Tintu". On duty, he says, I'd have to know that, but as soon as I don't know, so it didn't happen and that 2004 agreement probably doesn't exist, it's probably fake, and then I find sources on BBC and Free Europe, where it's written about the 2004 agreement. It is also written on the 2002 agreement, where the Government of the UK and the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland agreed on mutual protection of investments and mutual support, and in 2004 an investigative law was given, etc. "Rio Tintu" and found a mineral called jadarite, a combination of lithium and pine. Look, the man says - I don't know, I was a counselor, if it were, I'd have to know, but it probably didn't happen as soon as I did. However, it belongs to that political group that remembers nothing, has not been notified, is not under way. Well, no wonder he doesn't know about what happened in 2004, since a man is 82 years old, and since then, it's been good 17, 18 years. It is very strange that someone who says today – I am old for this function, because of my age I cannot perform it, the next day accept that function. The question now is what kind of persuasion it was, and what it all consisted of when a man changes his decision so quickly. I understand that princes and kings remain for life in some position. It's simply so resolved by the constitution in the monarchies. I understand that in some countries the presidents of states who have more protocol powers than some executive, real, also have very many years, and 70, 80 and more, but it has not happened that someone who has an executive office, such as the mayor of Belgrade, who is very responsible and similar to that of the Prime Minister, is so many years old. I respect that Mr. Vladeta Jankovic is well aware of diplomacy, philosophy and everything she does in life, that she may also be a political analyst, to talk politics, but the office of Belgrade mayor is looking for an operative, looking for a man who will work 24 hours. Now, if that's the case, the question is, what did Gilas and the company choose exactly him? I'm sure there were some maybe younger people who would accept that, but it's a matter of trust. I don't think Gilas trusts them. Here he sets up a puppet, a man of age, who obviously won't have time to deal with his work, nor so much energy, strength, nerves, because he now needs to learn a new job, which is local self-government management, and he is now setting up a puppet to surround his people and who will continue the work that has been interrupted by the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party to power. That's the whole point of the story. Vladeta Jankovic was not chosen because she is the best and because she is the most operational, but, according to my personal assessment, she was chosen because she did not want to interfere much with her work, which would only be one cover behind whom she would hide or hide behind whom those who would continue to do what Gilas was doing and in fact the real mayor would be Dragan Gilas, as he used to be. I've gone too far, over 20 minutes. I thank you for your attention. Long live our President Vukic, lived Serbia and lived Serbs wherever they are!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12212	Thank you, Mr. Bandur. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I again ask the question I asked yesterday -- what is the name of the Serb tank killer? ‘Cornet’. What's the name of the Croatian tank killer? - Hello, Pride. Unfortunately for us, this other one is far more efficient than it has ever been. He destroyed hundreds of tanks. He destroyed thousands of arrows, destroyed cannons, destroyed other armored vehicles. So, the army's down to that fire escape or, as it's called, a military orchestra for music. So our army was weaker than our hunting society. Ladies and gentlemen, he and I are colleagues. In command, I was a water commander in the army. I used to be department commander. Zdravko Ponoš was also a water commander. He was quickly promoted, so he wasn't a department commander, he immediately became a water commander. Being in command, that's what's left. So he didn't command anything in his military life anymore, except he was a water commander. He specializes in listening, etc. And just so you know, while the country was in charge, Zdravko Ponos refused to go to Krajina because he was born in Golubić, where Janko Vesenovic was born. Imagine that happiness, for Golubic, Janko Veselinović and Zdravko Ponos. Janko Vesenovic bought refugees from Croatia in time, expelled people, drove them to Knin, drove them to Golubic, and in front of the station people from HDZ, Janko Vesenovic orders Serbs to vote for HDZ, I think that something... I can't remember what the mayor or mayor of Knin's name was. So, what began political Janko Veselinovic, it is the military radio Zdravko Ponos. For example, Zdravko Ponos had, like all officers who were born across, what they used to say, through Drina, who were born in Republika Srpska and in the territory of Republika Srpska, had a recommendation from the General Staff to return to their homeland and try to help defend Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. Almost all officers who were born and lived in the territory of Republika Srpska and Krajina did so except one. The one was not Janko Veselinović. It's the one who told Serbs to vote for HDZ. The one that worked in favour of HDZ and the Croatian army was called Zdravko Ponos. It is the only officer who did not want to return to Golubic to help defend Republika Srpska, dozens of his fellow officers died. Although he had gone there, since he was an expert in listening to the connection, etc., he would probably have been far from the front, but he was also close to Belgrade, so he was resolved, by his own admission, wanted to leave Serbia, as Dusan Teodorovic probably wanted to defect to the war on the aggressor side. The failure to succeed during the war in Republika Srpska succeeded later, later and in Kosovo, the failure to escape during the wars managed to complete two courses. Now pay attention. One course ended in the Royal College in London, Great Britain, English, centuries-old friends of the Republic of Serbia. Look, they're training the future Chief of Staff, then you can know what they taught him, but it's a little bit of a course. To qualify for the family line, he needed another course that, behold, was in Germany. I don't know a NATO base or what it was called. Well, that's where he got his education, and that's how he recommended himself to the future Chief of Staff. Immediately after Serbia-Montenegro's collapse, as an assistant or deputy chief of staff at the General Staff, he becomes chief of the Serbian Army's general staff, remember. Such a person who commanded only water, and at the time of several wars we fought as members of a nation, he found himself to be Chief of General Staff without any military or peace-making experience in command. It's not remembered throughout the world during the 20 years I've watched the army. So there is no state that had such an officer and such a captain and such a general. Now, that's our opponent, that's the time they were in charge. They say the debt was 15 point something billion in 2012. At the end of that year when we drew the line, the debt was 17.7 billion, it was the country's external debt. So 17 commas, but they forgot that they had ruined the Vojvodina Development Bank and that Agrobank had been destroyed and that we had to be in debt another billion to allow those banks' savings not to fail. So it was an additional debt of a billion. They forget to say that interest only in the first seven years on their debts, which were large, amounted to five billion, which this government had to pay back. So, the new duty to repay only interest on their debts and to trade some new debts with high interest rates on lower interest rates. Also, they forgot to say they spent the entire social economy they sold only for 6.7 billion. Imagine someone giving us 6.7 billion right now. So if we found that economy they probably wouldn't sell, but 6.7 billion was what they sold, except they had 17.7 billion in debt. They have forgiveness from the London and Paris Club which was in 2003 in 2004, which amounted to 4.5 billion, which means that they filled our forgiveness with up to 17.7 billion. With the 6.7 that's about 11 billion and the donor support they spent, it was four billion. Except for those 17 and some billion, they cost us another 15 billion and the country was completely underdeveloped. Now they're saying the debt was 17.7. They forget everything I said about selling the entire economy, social capital, donor support, filling, forgiveness of the Paris and London Club. So they're forgetting that 15 billion. Now let me ask them, I'm sorry that the opposition colleague is not here, since the debt has grown, it seems to me, by ten billion, and we're returning Tito's loans and their high-interest loans, would they still be in debt to 10,000 euros, would they take the loan? You, Minister, 10,000 euros to make 19,000 euros each year? Would you take a loan? I would take and kiss the hand of whoever gives me a 10,000-euro loan to push it into investment every year and make 19,000 more every year. That's what any citizen in Serbia would take, anyone who wants to develop their own household or develop their craftsmanship. So you take 10,000 euros and every year you have more, like, 19,000 euros. To move that to GDP, with 33 billion in debt, but every year, we had 19 billion more GDP, this year we're going to have that 19 and maybe two billion more and, despite the repayment of their debts and Tito's, we're going to make more, 19 billion each year, as seen in spending. Gross wages jumped monthly with 560m euros in their time and are now over a billion and 200. Net wages are monthly, so in the course of the year, instead of 6.5 billion people get paid 14.4 billion, and that's what anyone who can see on the roads can see in stores, by the number of shopping malls, by the self-services that are open, by consumption. And I want our citizens to get as much as possible and spend as much as possible, but in order for that to happen, it has to be invested, and for public affairs and public infrastructure, the government has to be in charge of allowing conditions for investment to enter, and foreign and domestic investment is fuel in a car called the state. It's a power plant that's an engine and a gearbox. Without that, there's no vehicle running. So these loans that we are now taking are in favour of infrastructure development, in favour of public affairs, in favour of public ownership. So this allows the state of Serbia to be arranged not only for citizens, but for future potential investors. And to think that someone now five billion to divide the population or someone to say here's five billion to invest in the economy, to develop the economy, the first case that someone gives five billion to split it up, Gilas would definitely accept it, and we would accept that other variant, to invest those five billion in economic activity, and in such a way that every year we have more money and that this money is earned, that this country lives on the earned, that citizens can reach as many EU countries as possible in a way that is going to happen from the earned, and not from the person in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12214	Thank you too, Mr. Risticevic. The word has Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12215	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as these financial agreements are concerned today, 11 of them relate to borrowing to address certain environmental problems. This is another confirmation that the government of Serbia and the state have one responsible relationship to the protection of the environment. I will take this opportunity to say something about the electoral laws that we will vote on tomorrow night. The amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, the election of MPs and the election of committees in the congregations of cities and municipalities, the SNS and President Aleksandar Vucic make another one in a series of concessions to the opposition. I will, of course, vote in favour of the adoption of these laws because I believe that the election results do not depend much on election conditions, that they depend primarily on the election will of citizens, and everyone is clear that most Serbian citizens are defined to trust Alexander Vukic and SNS again in the April 3rd elections. But personally, I think it's gone too far in these procedures. The opposition acts like a spoiled brat who keeps yelling and something he likes, and we act like parents who we watch to bribe a child, give him everything he asks for, all hoping it'll stop yelling and harassing the neighborhood. When I say neighborhood, in this case, I mean the EU. Of course the spoiled child, the more he pleases him, the louder and more aggressive he gets. I think there must be some lower limit below which you can't go, because if you don't have that limit, then democracy becomes anarchy. If someone thinks the opposition will behave by giving her concessions, by stopping the tension in society, by giving up the story of electoral theft, by calling the people to the streets on April 3rd, he is in grave error. I will remind you of several examples of the numerous concessions that SNS and Aleksandar Vukic made to the opposition in the last few years. All these examples, all these concessions did not come across an appropriate and decent reception. Every time our outstretched hand stayed in the air. The first example, about a year and a half ago, we had a vandal incursion of the DOS opposition, leader of the DOS opposition with its supporters in the Serbian Television building. Serbian citizens were able to see in television that people tried to enter the studio from which the programme is being broadcast, to take over the programme's management and arrangement. After that, we also had a case of attempted entry into the parliament building. These were school examples of attempts at a coup. The coup is one of the most serious crimes against constitutional order in every normal country. For comparison, I remind you that a year and a half ago the world saw an attempt by supporters of Donald Trump in the U.S. Congress building. Three hundred protesters have been arrested. They've been sentenced to over 1,000 years in prison. Did any of the organisers of the state coup attempt in Serbia respond? It's nobody. No one's been processed, they're all amnesty. The next concession made to the opposition is the reduction of the electoral censorship from 5% to 3% before the previous parliamentary elections. Had the 5% censorship remained, the opposition would have nothing to look for in the April 3rd elections. Approximately three lists or three coalitions could expect to enter parliament, get their representatives in this House and get the opportunity to finance their activities from the state budget. However, thanks to the fact that the census is reduced to 3%, it is estimated that seven, eight to ten parties will have the chance to vote for parliamentary status because it has its representatives in the Serbian Parliament. The next concession made was made on the day the current government of Serbia was formed. On that same day, the President of the Republic ordered the government's mandate for a year and a half. You know, that was a lot of encouragement for the demoralized opposition. So, they've been told -- you won't have to wait four years to get a chance to vote for parliamentary status, but you'll have that chance in a year and a half. The next concession was made months ago when we agreed to hold talks with the opposition on changing electoral conditions. Someone mentioned yesterday that the government has accepted 16 demands from the opposition. You know, I'm talking about electoral conditions that the SNS didn't adopt. These electoral conditions were brought by the current opposition 15 years ago when they were in power, they prescribed these electoral conditions, these election conditions were the best at the time, they were good as they won the election. When they lost the citizens of Serbia's trust, these electoral conditions are no good now. The biggest concession that has been made in these negotiations is to agree with the authorities that representatives of the extraparliamentary opposition have their representatives in the permanent RIK, that they are practically in full capacity, from the beginning to the end, participating in the election process. I am now asking, does any of you know of a similar example in France, Great Britain, Spain, America and those countries that sell democracy, does one of you know, for example, that in these countries, opposition that has no representatives in parliament could participate in the electoral process in a way that has its representatives in a permanent electoral body in RIK? Now I'm going to say something about this story that we hear every day about election thefts being prepared. At least a dozen electoral lists are expected to take part in the elections. Looks to me like there were about 20 of them in the last election. Each election list has the right to have two representatives on the election board, which controls the vote. If we have ten electoral lists, that means we're going to have 20 controllers, plus five or six members of a permanent working body. They all participate in the voting process. From start to end, they can control everything and vote and count ballots. Do you know how a possible election theft is? Election theft is possible only if everyone participates, so all 20-25 members of the election board agree and participate in the electoral theft, only so. If the SNS is able to buy, they say, all members of the election board, or if the opposition is unable to find two non-sales, who will not agree to election theft, then the opposition should not participate in the elections, let alone run the state. Since one of today's topics is candidates for the president of the Republic and candidates for mayor of Belgrade, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate the opposition on the election of Zdravko Ponos as Serbian and Prime Minister Jankovic as mayor of Belgrade. If we had chosen them, we in power, I don't think they'd have chosen better. Imagine that for the president of the state, who will be commander-in-chief, you are running for an officer, Krajisnik from Golubic near Knin, who did not participate in the war, who was one day away from the war in which his house, his village, was defended, but was watching the war rocked in a chair, in slippers, from his apartment in Belgrade. As for the mayoral candidate for Belgrade, I remind him that a man five days ago said he had no idea about the job they're running for, that he's too old, that he's sick. Given these facts and the fact that he is 82 years old, it is possible to conclude not only that it is a professional candidate, but a young and perspective piece, which represents the future of the opposition and the future of Serbia. I'll take this opportunity to say a few words about the construction of traffic in the area of the municipality from which I come, the Great Plane. The Serbian government has invested more than 10m euros in renovating roads in the Great Plane area over the past three years. Two and a half years ago, a complete reconstruction of the road between the Great Plan and Smederjevska Palanka was carried out. The last reconstruction was done 50 years ago. Fivem euros were invested in the reconstruction. A year and a half ago, a complete reconstruction of the Markovac-Svilajnac road was carried out. The reconstruction cost more than 2m euros. Now the work is under way on a complete reconstruction of the road from the Great Plan to the Frog, I don't know what the value of the works is. We have a firm promise from the Ways of Serbia, from the Serbian government, that works will be carried out this year on the reconstruction of the regional road from Savanovac via Krnjev to Smederjevska Palanka, which is in really bad shape. Now to act a little bit like that brat, the opposition, which I was talking about at the beginning, I now expect from the government of Serbia also from Mr. Nedimovic, who I also expect will be the minister of the next government, that the Serbian government will in the next two years also allocate funds for the reconstruction of the Carigrad road, for the reconstruction of the road from Lozovic through the Great Plana to Markovac, because the road is in poor shape and because I think the citizens of the Great Plane deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12216	Thank you, Mr. Maric. The word is Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12217	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we had an extremely interesting discussion on the agenda points which, I can say freely, are one of the reflections in which Serbia is moving, how far it progresses and how far it develops. This boycott opposition may criticise all that is done and built in Serbia, but if we ask the citizens what they remember from their time, what they did in Serbia, what they built, believe they wouldn't remember anything except maybe the "Adi Bridge", which is known for being largely installed by Dragan Djilas by realising the project himself, and that he himself paid the contractors to speed up the works, so that the bridge could open directly before the elections, because he is aware that his then chief Tadic and his very large number of votes were missing so that they could continue to stay in the chairs and rob Serbian citizens. In the end, the results of the Democratic Party government and Dragan Gilas himself are debts, minuses, closed factories, workers left on the streets, but their tycoon pockets were fully filled. We know that Dragan Gilas succeeded during his time as mayor of Belgrade and as he performed other public functions, including at the level of the Republic, which he seems reluctant to remember because he had no results, he managed to fill his pockets with 619m euros, and now he would continue the second phase of the project, which is called 619m plus the euro in his pocket. The projects that are here today ahead of us, i.e. loan agreements, are important because they will allow Serbia to develop further, to raise its infrastructure. I'm really glad and proud every time I go to Belgrade and see how much work on the Moravia Corridor is moving away and progressing. These works have already come in phase to slowly end the bridge over West Morava near the village of Makreshana, where it will actually be one of the exclusions for the highway, of the two that are planned when it comes to Kruševac. We can see for ourselves that these dynamics of works are going great and that we will really start at the beginning of this year, i.e. in the first quarter, we will be present once truly for us Kruševljani, which is that Kruševac is finally connected with the highway, which will further speed up the transport itself, raise traffic security and what is very important, create conditions for opening industrial zones that are foreseen in this part, which are three zones, one in Cicicec, one in Kruševac and the third in Triestenik, which will enable new investments, new jobs, jobs for young people and that these young people stay and live in this area. I am proud to say that this corridor, i.e. the highway, will be the most modern, both in Serbia and in the region, the first digital highway and I can really say that the works themselves are going fantastic, so that this proposal that is ahead of us is very important so that we can successfully bring the project to an end, i.e. continue to build the highway towards Tristenik, Kraljev, and then bring it entirely to Cačka, which would also have a much better connection for attracting tourists and new investment that is coming. About the French Corridor, the minister really said how important the project is. By the way, the Moravia Corridor project itself and the dream of it is also a decades-old dream. There were earlier planning documents which, in some future, planned to build this corridor, so it is very important that we show in the works that the "Serbia 2025" plan is being implemented and that it is something that Serbian citizens see and that is something that Serbian citizens really value. So the statistics themselves, when we talk about economic indicators how much our economy has progressed, says exactly that, and I will remind the purely citizens that during the period of the yellow tycoon authorities in 2012, they left unemployment at 25.9%, and today it is reduced to 10%, and in the period when we are struggling with the pandemic of the crown and now in this period when we are fighting and with the challenges that the energy crisis is taking with it. Our GDP has been significantly raised. He has exceeded this historic figure of 50 billion today, so now, as Honored counterpart Tomic said, 53 billion stood at the end of last year. That is indeed the result of pride, and we will only remind that in the time of the yellow Thai authorities they have left us a GDP that amounted to something above 33 billion. What they were also known for is inflation. Neither have they fought to maintain macroeconomic stability, nor have they fought for some co-operation between fiscal and monetary authorities, to create and condition that investments in Serbia can come. No, for them it's characteristic that they had double-digit inflation, that the course was raised and lowered. In the last time they were in power, they allowed the dinar to be significantly weakened. Why? Because they fought and the only ones they worked for were tycoons who funded their party. Today we have a stable exchange rate. We have inflation that keeps under control, and the only thing that affects inflation is these external factors that we're sure will stabilize how not only we predict, but also globally important institutions. So all these projects ahead of us from agriculture, in the field of dual education, are very important for the development of the Republic of Serbia, which is why these solutions ahead of us, i.e. loans should be supported, and they are, of course, trying to criticise and all the articles in which they have spoken in their tycoon media is that Serbia is in debt, so it is interesting that in one article, it seems that the author of the text deals with himself whether it is 1.9 or two billion and puts two billion in the title, and the text says about some 1.9 billion. You know, they're used to stealing about 20% of how the machine's brain is when it's dealing with seconds on RTS and 20 plus 20 and minus 20, and here with all those 20%, we've come to say it's not 1.9 but two billion in the text. Not one sentence dealt with specifically with projects, the benefits that we have from projects that will be realised and beneficial in terms of our country's future, because dual education is something that this government has introduced, which it recognises as a benefit for young people, where it will enable them to gain practical experience, knowledge, to acquire and practice in the real sector, in the economy. In particular, these projects where we talk about dual education, we will have really modern centres for the realization of dual education in Belgrade and Vrsac, so we will also have successful pilots. We know how they dealt with aviation, what with this civilian, that and the military. They absolutely worked on the fact that the military air force was completely destroyed, that no plane was operational. As for civilians, we saw the results of the JAT case and the case of the airport as they dealt with them. What is also their characteristic is that their quasi experts who unfortunately had the privilege and the privilege of being state secretaries or, as they like to say, that they practically led ministries at the time of the tycoon government. One of them is Nikezic, who leads in Gilas's party, the Committee for Business and Finance. He already says the state, or public debt, is going to be around 50 billion. So, about as much as we do GDP, which really should be a shame for one expert. So he doesn't have to tell lies, he doesn't have to deal with manipulations, concrete things should be brought out, if he claims to himself that such an expert is as they glorify him. In particular, the "Slog" union within the Multicom company that I ran to become part of the "Sloge" union. Otherwise, we know his résumé, of course. Also known is the biography, unfortunately, of his family and father who participated in the machinations when it comes to "Azotara". Iver doesn't fall far from the stake, so we can't expect him to act any differently than his father does. That expert himself, when we talk about these loans, comments on the interest rates at which he is in charge and, of course, favors one side, to say certain lenders. He criticises, of course, the others, where he says that, well, we take loans from Chinese banks that are very unfavourable, and to God, these others are much more favourable. He didn't go into matter, he didn't bother to read and tell his readers, because he wrote texts, what is fixed, what is a variable interest rate, what risks the variable interest rate carries with it, what risks the fixed interest rate carries, and which is why it's very important that we as a state today can borrow with an interest rate of 1.5%, 1%, 2%, something that they could only dream of. The credits they took, not for investment, but to put in their pockets, so they could pay the workers, went from 7%, 8%, 9%, and more percent, and those same debts that they made today we pay back. Why isn't he talking about it? Why isn't he doing that analysis? That's what hurts them the most. They are pained by the period when they ruled, when they destroyed this country and have no face to look at themselves in the mirror and do only an analysis of what they left behind, but rather show themselves to citizens as some new hope, as some new people who will not know what changes they will bring to Serbia. It is the same in the case of Zdravka Poša, whom they have as a candidate for the president of the Republic, the bearer of the list and her second on the list of Alexic and Marinika Tepic. The same story refers to a candidate for mayor of Belgrade who was excellent at the time when he was in the DSS what he did, or what he didn't do. On the other hand, unlike them, at least he admitted to being incapacitated for the function he was running for. And he said himself, so -- I'm just a puppet here to move monuments, and I'm gonna make way for the claws of my boss who's gonna be able to suck money out of the city's register again, and these other cities in Serbia are gonna stick into their pockets and make their game of 619+ million successfully realized. (Milenko Jovanovic: He is actually Gilas' physicist. That's exactly it, and that's on the PP contract. That's right. And not just him, but many others. Then what's particularly interesting is the texts they're dealing with, the behavior of individual leaders at the rally. When they represented their candidates, well, I don't know, some loud applause by Jeremic. Now we have to interpret what that means. In my opinion, it seems to be some good stress management, since we ourselves know how proud Jeremic is and how pleased he is to run for president, and we know what he did to keep him from having certain members of his party. Then probably that thunderous applause that he gave Tonosha is some sense that this stress, or anger that he has outstretched it not to be visible so much in public. In any case, let them rub each other, let them fight, let them do whatever they want. Today, as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see, we are doing our job, we are fighting for Serbia to move forward, we are working on realising the 2025 projects that deliver results, and this is also seen by the statistics of the average incomes, it is seen by other criteria. We're working to give support to young people. It is truly great that over a million young people have applied for the aid of a 100-euro state and are now being paid a great deal. These are ways of helping both businesses and citizens during the crisis, and not as they did to declare the crisis a chance through a smile, citizens are promising 1,000 euros and today they owe us all another 900 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12218	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. The last on the list reported for the word is Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12219	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honorable Ministers, Honorable People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I am pleased to see you more and more frequently in this National Assembly, which speaks of your relationship with the work you do as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the one hand, and on the other hand your relationship with the Assembly as a legislative body. As my predecessors have said, on the agenda we have a set of laws on economic issues on credit arrangements. This primarily refers to the construction of sewage infrastructure on the one hand, and on the other hand to the construction of the Moravia Corridor, then to the construction of the Frushkogorje Corridor, the improvement of dual education against which our political opponents were, when they sat in this high house, then, to the purification of waste water. Furthermore, for the construction of broadband communication infrastructure, which is of paramount importance what tomorrow will be particularly about when education and climate change programmes are topics. What is important is respected citizens, these are projects from the SNS programme, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the country's current president, which will be implemented by the end of 2020 in the programme 2025. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are witnessing that our political opponent Dragan Gilas was the biggest and worst mayor in Belgrade's history. You are witnesses of the respected Belgrade citizens. He was not interested in the development of Belgrade at all. He was only interested in his private firm and funds from the Belgrade city budget and the Republika Srpska budget. When he came to political office, he was in power, as you know he was a common gologous, and he left politics with 619m euros, which he transparently divided into 17 countries, into over 60 accounts around the world. That Dragan Gilas is not interested in the development of the city of Belgrade, is not just me and my fellow SNS. The former US ambassador to Belgrade, Cameron Martel, who said in 2009, quotes -- Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade is only marketing, i.e. false promises, not real promises. It's a finished quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's what he says about Dragan Gilas as the worst mayor of Belgrade's history. I'll list just a few things for you to see what Dragan Gilas missed while he was mayor, and what the SNS led Alexander Vukic realized. I don't want to testify to you here or the opposition respected citizens, especially the Belgraders, you will be testifying. Since he had false promises to build Belgrade, and only there was marketing, so for Dragan Gilas the construction of the National Museum in Belgrade was only marketing, i.e. a false promise, believe it or not, but 13 years, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. You are witnesses, respected Belgraders, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia whether I am telling the truth or not. Let's move on. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Contemporary Art Museum in Belgrade was just marketing, i.e. false promises for 16 years, and for Alexander Vukic the reality, you are witnesses respected by Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the temple of St. Sava on Vračar was for many years only marketing, i.e. false promises, and for Alexander Vukića the reality. Today it is the most beautiful Orthodox temple in the world, you are witnesses of respected Belgraders and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for Dragan Gilas, building a monument to Stefan Nemanja is just marketing, false promises, and for Alexander Vukic the reality, you are witnesses of respected Belgraders and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of Beograd on water was just marketing, and for Aleksandra Vukica the reality. Today, "Belgrade on Water" is the largest and most beautiful construction site in this part of Europe. So for Dragan Gilas, the reconstruction and revitalization of "Zeljezare" Smederevo was just marketing for many years, and for Aleksandra Vukica the reality, you are witnesses respected by Belgrade citizens and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for Dragan Gilas, the refurbishing of the Republic Square was just marketing, i.e., a false promise, and for Alexander Vukic the reality, you are witnesses of the respected Belgraders and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Belgrade-Novi Sad fast track for years was just marketing, and for Alexander Vukic, as you can see, the respected Belgraders and citizens of the Republic were reality. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the House of Health in Borca was just marketing, a false promise for many years, and for Alexander Vukic, respected Belgraders, especially respected citizens of Palilula, or Borce, as you see reality. By tomorrow, I could list what was a false promise for Dragan Gilas, which for Alexander Vukic and the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia was a reality, but this is enough to see respected Belgrade citizens that Dragan Gilas was indeed the worst mayor of Belgrade. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, suggested Zdravko Ponos as president of the Republic. I'm just going to say a few sentences, that's another insolence and a great disrespect for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia if we keep in mind who Zdravko Ponos is. As chief of Serbia's Army General Staff, he was executed for the Army of Serbia, so much so that he was disowned by his Boris Tadic, and then attracted by Vuk Jeremic with a huge amount of money, the ones he received for his Centre for Sustainable Development from Mongolia and other parts of the world. Dear citizens, every member of Serbia's army today turns red with shame when Serbia's Army rating gives Zdravko Ponos. Why? It was precisely because Ponos as a general stood still in front of NATO lieutenants while the brave Serb army delivered Zdravko Ponos to The Hague tribunal. Why go on? Because Ponoš promised the United States senator that Serbia's military would cut from 62,000 to 27,000 and that's what Zdravko Ponoš did. Anyone who thought of the Serbian Army as a patriot was expelled from Serbia's Army during the time General Staff was General Zdravko Ponos. Believe it or not, but Ponoš retired Serbia's best personnel. So, among other things, he retired 28 of the best generals, the best officers on the country's first line of defense, and that's why he retired them. Zdravko Ponos destroyed Serbia's military and Serbia's army's weapons to a fire unit. So he destroyed PVO systems, destroyed 9,218 missiles of Arrows just because they turned out to be extraordinary during his NATO bombings of our country, and 419 rocket launchers. Furthermore, he destroyed 200 tanks, further destroyed 120 armored transporters, 36 Prague, 90 Haubica. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is Zdravko Ponos, who he proposed for the president of the Republic, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. He went to NATO to lobby for Serbia's entry into the organisation beyond the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, past the government of the Republic of Serbia and beyond the state of Serbia. In his day, the so-called so-called. independence of Kosovo. When he was Chief of Staff, believe it or not, Zdravko Ponos bought only eight rockets for MIG-29. Do you know when they worked? In his day, they only drove on Saturdays haystacks for horses, that's Zdravko Ponos. And he visited, in the end, that I no longer deal with it, the foreign embassy, in one word, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I know that you will never forgive him for being an ordinary spy. Spy, that's Zdravko Ponos general was. Dear citizens and respected Belgraders, as you have seen, Zdravko Ponos has proposed to the mayor, Prof. Dr. Vladet Jankovic. I'm not going to say anything about a respected colleague, but what all Belgraders know, what all former members of the Democratic Party of Serbia know is that he is unreliable, that he is an elite, that he has persecuted colleagues from the university, not just fellow professors, but also students. What was very important, Vladeta Jankovic would like to tear down Stefan Nemanje's monument. Can you believe, respected citizens, or possibly move, as you said, to Marink's bar or possibly in Borch? Dear citizens of my Palilula and Borce, you can see how you are respected by the future candidate for future mayor Vladeta Jankovic. And look at the wonders, he would stop Lesce, that's what he said. Can you believe Vladeta Jankovic said that? And behold, miracles, respected Belgrade and Serbian citizens, supported by none other than the bishop of Grigoria, the Herzegovian tycoon in church, the Herzegovian tycoon, we all know that. Dear Gregory, put down the priest's uniform and get into politics. Don't hide behind the church. That perhaps, dear Gregory, you too may not, dear bishop, tear down Stefan Nemanje's monument and move as your mayor wants? That you wouldn't stop Lesce, what did you say? Black Government, you need to be neutral and seek co-existence, like an episcope, and tolerance in society, not what you're doing. Black bishop, shame. And finally, while Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Zdravko Ponos is working daily against the interests of citizens and the Republic of Serbia, until then Alexander Vukic daily, but daily, both the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia lead security policy, which is most important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, peace policy, health policy of all our citizens, not only in our country, but also in the region, economic progress policy, international co-operation policy. Here, the president will also meet with the president of China these days, in one word, the policy of accelerated economic progress and the modernisation of Serbia, all due to the future of our children. On that behalf, respected citizens, on April 3rd, we define ourselves for the further development and modernisation of Serbia or possibly for destruction, because as you can see, Zdravko Ponos, Vladeta Jankovic, Dragan Gilas would have destroyed everything. He said, quote, Dragan Gilas: "When I win power, I will take a hundred lawyers and destroy everything that is done today," the quote concluded. Well, no wonder Vladeta Jankovic also said she would stop Lesce. Long live Serbia! Long live our president!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-03-0.u12220	Thank you, Professor. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, do they want the word of the president, or of the authorised representatives or someone who has not used his right? (No) I thank all those who participated in today's work. I am concluding a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 12 to 22 of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Jelena Mihailovic. We are moving to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 23 and 24 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Branko Ružić, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Prof. Dr. Marijana Dukić Mijatović, State Secretary; Prof. Dr. Bojan Tubic, Deputy Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. I welcome the representatives of the government present. I'm asking MPs' groups if they haven't already done that, to file a statement. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to elect members of the National High Education Council and a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Management Board of the National Accreditation and Quality Security Board on Higher Education. Does the Proposer's representative want a word at the very beginning? Yeah. ) The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
