ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12222	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I will take the opportunity to present today several proposals that will, on the one hand, contribute to the development of dual education in the field of aviation in Serbia, and on the other hand, what is more important, enable uninterrupted processes and quality assurance in the area of higher education. Since you were considering yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, the bill confirming the framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, I would, if I may, still refer to this point yesterday, given that it is very important from the aspect of dual education. It's a training centre for dual education. What I want to say in the introduction is to point briefly to the results and plans of the Ministry of Development of Dual Education, because it is important that you, as representatives of citizens and citizens of Serbia, but of course also citizens who follow this transfer, have or have a complete picture of what we are trying to do when it comes to developing this part of the education system, to understand why and your confirmation of this law in this respected home is extremely important. So, dual education in our education system has lived for six years. During the period during secondary dual education, 10,000 people went through 54 different dual programmes, and 150 secondary schools and local self-government co-operated with nearly 900 different companies in this field. Dual education has been available since this year in higher education. Nine higher education institutions started with the realization of a dual model of studies, 32 student programmes were accredited, 150 students studied by dual model studies, 75 companies participate in the realization of a dual model of studies. When it comes to dual education, we have learned, of course, from the best in this area, from Germans, Austrians, Swiss people who in their education systems through this model of education prepare young people for the world of work. Thanks to the Law on Dual Education and the Law on the dual model of higher education studies adopted here in Parliament, we have contributed to the construction of the foundations on which we are building this system. In the developmental sense, our national model of dual education shows exceptional results in all areas of work in which it was introduced... Air Force results, an industry that represents the very top of technology, not only in Europe, but, of course, planetaryly speaking. We have developed 11 new dual educational profiles that meet the standards of the European Union Aviation Safety Agency EASA. In addition to being able to develop a good model, the fact that a world-renowned company, precisely from this area, from the aviation industry, MTU, has decided to invest money in Serbia, among other things, and because of our educational system that can offer appropriate personnel and be complemented by a prestigious company at the world level. In terms of the development of dual education, the logical continuation was last May's decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the establishment of the High Professional School of the Air Academy and the establishment of an Air Training Centre in Vrsac. Last October, the first students headed to the Air Force Academy High School. The study programmes offer air engineering, air traffic and flight control. It has been approved for 24 seats, four of which are for pilots, 14 budget places for engineers, airfield maintenance and two budget places for flight controllers. Students and students who are educated for aviation profiles learn by dual model. Learning through work is taking place next to the Belgrade Air Academy workshop at the Training Centre of the Air Academy in Vrsac, which the Serbian Government also took over last year, and thus we have completed a vision of creating a single centre for the education and training of pilots, cabin staff, air mechanics and, of course, flight engineers and controllers. The Framework Loan Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for a Project Loan - The Centre for dual education training was signed in Belgrade and Paris on 27 January 2022, which approved a 20m-euro loan, Article 3. The Republic of Serbia budget law for 2021 and the 2022 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe has been approved. The main objectives of the project are the reconstruction and equipment of two Training Centres, one in Belgrade, the other, as you heard, in Vrsac, for the needs of air education in Serbia according to the model, of course, dual education. This investment will allow us to create additional conditions for the education of airmen in Serbia and the region, and help provide careers for future pilots, flight controllers and other related occupations. Another important aspect is that this project can be viewed as a pilot project for the development of dual education at the academic level, which is a priority for the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, in line with the Law on Dual Education, which extends the beauty of opportunities for academic education of young people. The aim of this project is certainly to strengthen the position of our Serbian state in aviation education and training, but also beyond the sectoral industry and services, and not only on the European market, but worldwide. The project aims to help Serbia and to play a prominent role in implementing the EU Air Strategy, adopted by the EU on 7 December 2015, aimed at increasing the competitiveness and sustainability of the entire EU air traffic network, in particular creating high-quality jobs in the aviation sector of innovation, digital technologies and focusing on energy independence and climate change policy aimed at the future. It is expected, of course, that the project will also strengthen Belgrade as a regional hub for air services in general. When it comes to Vrsac, the plan is to reconstruct and equip November accommodation, study and recreation facilities and two formal training classrooms, and then civil aviation facilities, as well as to acquire new equipment, more specifically a single-engine helicopter and two two-engine aeroplanes with a flight simulator and a video-control system, while at the Centre for Training in Belgrade we plan to reconstruct a building in which the flight simulator will be located and the purchase of a complete flight simulator, Erbas A320, which is, of course, complementary to our national airline. Both centers will be modernised by digitising the process of education and training and by obtaining the necessary vehicles to travel between the centres. The direct benefit from the implementation of this project will, of course, be up to 1,500 students who will be able to study in high school after starting to work at full capacity for five years after the launch. Youths outside Belgrade, as well as neighbouring countries, will also benefit from the project, as accommodation facilities will host students from all parts of Serbia and the region, including those coming from undeveloped areas. It is estimated that between 50% and 60% of students will come out of Belgrade, while 250 to 300 of those students will be placed in a renovated dormitory. The total cost of the project is estimated at 39.1m euros, including a 20m-euro bank loan, which accounts for up to 55% of the project's total value, and we provide the rest of the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The bank's loans finance construction works and equipment, furniture and certain services, while the Republic of Serbia finance the acquisition of land, property and construction works. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Air Training Centre in Vrsac is part of a wider vision of 12 regional training centres for dual and informal education. Currently, in addition to the Belgrade and Vrsac air training centres, the development of regional training centres in Valjevo, Subotica, Vlasotinc and Sapac is being intensive. Dear People's MPs, as you know, our obligation is to enable young people to study according to the highest standards and to enable them to be useful members of the community tomorrow, of course to achieve their personal ambitions, career goals. What the state has done and what it will do about aviation education is a revolutionary change resulting from the thinking and great work that has introduced education in this area into a formal education system of Serbia, and I would remind you that before these moves, education in this area was only at the level of training. By confirming this bill, you allow Serbia to reach investment funds that will improve the conditions for the education of our children, but also put Serbia on the world map of the aviation education centre, since it will only be the third centre on the territory of Europe as a whole. As for the second subject in the field of education, which is certainly on the roof and, I would say, there is a much broader scope and great importance, the topic we are considering today are two decisions that allow the functioning of the education system, i.e. the quality assurance in higher education. This is a proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the National Authority for accreditation and quality assurance in higher education and a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the National High Education Council. As you know, last year amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which took effect on July 10, 2021, were adopted in this home. This regulation, among other things, was adopted because it was necessary to amend and supplement a number of provisions relating to the quality assurance system in higher education in order to establish an appropriate legal framework for the National Accreditation Body to fully comply with European standards and guidelines for high education quality assurance, in particular with regard to independence in handling and making final decisions on quality verification in higher education. What is also the projected goal of my team and me when we are at the Ministry of Education is to regain full membership status within the European Association for High Education Quality Security, ENKA, which is important for the positioning of the Republic of Serbia in the European and international areas of higher education. The changes that we have introduced into this law then enabled greater independence from two bodies that are essential for ensuring quality in higher education, i.e. the National Body for Accreditation and Quality Security in Higher Education and the National Council for Higher Education. Greater independence is also reflected in the fact that members of the Management Board of the National Body for Accreditation and Quality Security in Higher Education, or members of the National High Education Council, are elected by you. The board of directors of the National Accreditation Body is now scheduled to have nine members appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, taking care of the representation of members of both genders, according to the next criterion. So, two members of the university's regular professors on a proposal from KONUS, or the University Conference, one member from the ranks of professors of vocational studies, on a proposal from the Academy and Higher Schools Conference, one member on a proposal from student conferences, two members on a proposal from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and three members on a proposal from the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. The National Council for Higher Education has 17 members elected by the National Assembly, taking into account, of course, the representation of members of both genders by the following criteria. So, six members from the ranks of prominent regular professors, top experts in calling a scientific advisor, i.e. artists with internationally recognised works or an informed contribution to national culture, taking care of the representation of educational, educational and artistic fields, as well as the representation of universities on a proposal for a conference of universities, two members from the ranks of professors of vocational studies, on a proposal from the Academy of Professional Studies and Higher Schools, seven members from the ranks of top experts, or artists with internationally recognised works, and that is, of course, on the proposal of the Ministry of Higher Education Office, so the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and two members on the proposal of the Business Chamber of Serbia. Today, following the law of the envisaged procedure, we provide you with joint proposals for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the National Body for Accreditation and Quality Security in Higher Education, i.e. the proposal of members of the National Council for Higher Education. As you have seen, the proposals were, of course, in accordance with the criteria, provided by all relevant institutions and organisations for the higher education system, which makes this process certainly inclusive, transparent and independent. It's about people who are really not only in their spheres of reference, but I'd say very much. I therefore call on you to support these proposals in the voting day, and thus enable the processes in higher education and only to preserve and improve quality in higher education to advance and therefore I expect you to have full support for these three proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12223	I thank Minister Ruzic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The People's MP Jahja Fehratovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12224	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, honourable MPs, today's proposal is extremely important because it determines the fate of a large number of higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia, and hence the fate of tens of thousands of students and thousands of educational workers in this country. Why am I saying this? Because NATO is an institution that has the right to decide which university, which department, which department will receive accreditation and which will not. We've had very important decisions of this body in the past that we've agreed with and those we disagreed with, but to make a brief retrospective of all these circumstances that, here, have led us to talk here today about this or these suggestions. Therefore, NAT is the successor of something called the Accreditation Commission, i.e. CAPK. The Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification, it seems to me, in 2006, was founded, after we moved on to this Bologna process and its role was initially not grateful for several reasons, which was simply drawn up exclusively by professors from the state university, who were not favored by private universities or universities that had a borrowing character. Of course, there have been many problems, there have been very many and unprofessional relations with certain higher education institutions, and for this reason, there has been, for example, that ENKA freezes the role of CAPK for a time, i.e. to put it under observation, and therefore the CAPK has been resolved, and the NAT has been established as a roof institution that will deal with the process of determining the quality and other criteria that are necessary for a certain higher education institution to be entered in the register of higher education institutions and as such recognised and recognised in the Republic of Serbia, the region, but also throughout Europe. In 2017, here in this tide some people who have wronged higher education institutions, let's say, and the University of Novi Pazar, tried to defend this position of the CAPK, attacking us MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party then to do so, to insist on the amendments to this Law on higher education solely for the sake of that university. However, it turned out, in fact, that what is the essence of then, as is the majority that is today in this House, has either been given or worked to preserve dignity and the Ministry of Education, as well as higher education. Why? Because it was something that came in favor of what ENKA resented the accreditation commission, which led to all these problems slowly being resolved through NAT today, which have held the state of Serbia for decades, or the Republic of Serbia in an uninvited position when it comes to the status of higher education institutions, when it comes to the status of all other employees and users of these institutions. Of course, it cares about the environment and what was the will of certain people who were in the accreditation process, especially the reviewers who came from the largest universities and had a certain kind of condescending, and sometimes a certain relationship unfair to other universities, or higher education institutions. It is therefore very important that in this body there are people, above all, professionals, to be people who are from the profession, to be people who are relieved of all other relationships, who are exclusively interested in whether a higher education institution has met the conditions to do so, whether there is all that is necessary when it comes to the references of those people who are in the educational process and whether they meet all others, such as spatial conditions, technical conditions, etc., to obtain the status of a higher education institution. All other criteria that are outside the framework of what represents this basic or basic or basic framework were not well-intentioned and they did not bring well to higher education institutions, including thousands, thousands of students who had completed those higher education institutions. I must say that, in this process, a great deal has been done by the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development of the Republic of Serbia, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period, led by both the President and the leader of the SPP, the Аcademic academic Mufti Mufti Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, and that these changes that triggered the process of restoring the dignity of higher education in the Republic of Serbia have been initiated thanks to both the work and the very dedicated presence of this committee in all these decisions that were necessary for this process to be launched and to have here today this very respectable play of people who have been proposed for the members of the NAT Management Board. Therefore, the SPP and the MPs of the SPP support these proposals. We believe that most of the members who are proposed with respectable biographies, with great experience, will contribute to the preservation and improvement of the quality of work of all higher education institutions through their supervisory role and through what is in the description of their work. Of course, the experience we had in the previous period teaches us that these relationships were created on how many people who are from the profession, who in these bodies are willing to really do much in this field, how willing they are to advocate their authority, their credibility, their knowledge, their skills, their ability to improve these processes and how willing they are to take away all subjective circumstances that can influence them from a certain higher education institution compared to another higher education institution. Therefore, we will remain alert to the end, and we will eventually oversee the work of this body as MPs, believing that this body has an extremely responsible role, an extremely important role and that, as such, we should work, first of all, on the basis of quality and what are the essential references of every higher school body in this country, was he of the state character, as a public institution, founded as a private university or private university or private high school. These are all very important parts of the educational system in the Republic of Serbia. All of these parts of the education system contribute to having a very wide range of highly trained personnel, young people who still have a very high position and opinion in EU countries as personnel coming from this country, as people who have acquired the necessary knowledge, skills and skills and who get a very easy chance of showing their skills and skills on the EU market or other countries, and as such become extremely important and respectable personnel. Of course, I'm also saying this as someone who is a university professor, who in his former career has also had dealings with the Accreditation Commission, and then also with NAT, someone who led a philosophy department at one university and I know what it means to be part of the Accreditation Commission, to be part of the NAT compared to how they are placed towards higher education institutions, especially according to private higher education institutions, employment higher education institutions, and especially at the time when for some of their reasons you are not welcome just because you prefer some values based solely on quality, exclusively on criteria, exclusively on scientific basis. The most significant problem we had in the previous period at the department was accreditation of the Bosnian language and Bosniak literature. This is one problem that we faced as a society for the reason that there is education in the Bosnian language in the Republic of Serbia where children in primary and secondary schools are educated in that language, but there was no higher education institution that would prepare the ability to work with those children. Of course, for some other reasons there have been attempts of various burdens, to make this process more difficult for us in any way, but according to the decisions, according to the criteria, and according to all that is necessary for one direction, in order for one scientific discipline to gain scientific credibility and for it to be as a section, as a department recognised, we meet these criteria always, and we can proudly say that we are the only cathedral in this country, in the Republic of Serbia, which educates a large number of professors of Bosnian language and Bosniak literature. The process is in the final phase and that both before the NAT and commissions reviewing the quality of the process ends and that, finally in the Republic of Serbia, all professors of philology, as well as professors of Bosnian language and Bosniak literature, as well as professors of Serbian language and Serbian literature, as well as all other national disciplines have an equal attitude in the recognition of their diplomas, in the recognition of their knowledge and skills and on the chance of obtaining employment in the educational process. That is what is important for the Republic of Serbia as well. This is also a major contribution to the University of Novi Pazar, as one employee institution, to the overall process of education in the Republic of Serbia, and as such it plays an extremely important role and should be supported by all instances of society, because it solves a major problem that could be used and abused by various factors of this society. Thanks to the tenacity, and thanks to the constant work of the University of Novi Pazar and in our country, there is such a cathedral and teaching that is performed in the education system, in primary and secondary schools, is a teaching performed by staff who have been trained predominantly in our country. With this in mind, I also commend the ministry in the previous period organised a license for Bosnian language professors and Bosniak literature for the first time in the Republic of Serbia, where legally and formally those who work for over a decade in the primary and secondary school process, where classes are performed in the Bosnian language, have been granted a license to conduct the course. It didn't last ten years and more because they didn't meet the conditions, but because so far the ministry and other authorities had no capacity or for some other reasons, but it was simply never organised to make a license for Bosnian language and Bosniak literature professors. It was done early in 2022. That process has begun. Thanks to this process, another great injustice has been removed against educational workers who carry out teaching in the language of one national community and who, as such, have all the rights as citizens of this Republic, as citizens of the Serbian state, as well as all other professors and educational workers who are employed in the education system. With this in mind, I congratulate and thank the Ministry for having heard that this problem has been solved, that this process has been launched, that this process has started and that it is likely to continue in the coming period so that a large number of teachers who carry out teaching in the languages of national minorities, and in particular in the Bosnian language, will have the possibility that after a decade and more of waitings they will receive the licences they need to fully exercise all those rights which, as educational workers, belong to the employees of the Ministry of Education. We hope that all members of the NAT Management Board will take advantage of all previous experiences, which were once of a quality, which were once less quality, especially in the period before reforming the CAPK that became a NAT, that they will never again lead to all the higher education institutions in this country being under the radar of some quality-checking institution, such as ENKA in the European Community, the EU, and that otherwise we will do much more alone to raise quality, to overcome all of the criteria foreseen by ENKA, and one of the special indicators is a good tradition introduced through NAT, which is this self-evaluation of higher education institutions that gives opportunity to each of the managers of certain higher education institutions to objectively look at all the potentials of their higher education institution, to objectively see what is necessary for them to be the best, and all in this field with the idea of the best interests of society, to be able to be able to be able to contribute to achieve such a great degree in this society, to achieve the wholeness, to achieve the wholeness of the wholeness of the whole, the whole, the whole of the whole of the wholeness of the state, the whole of the whole of the whole of the state, the whole of the whole of the whole, the whole of the whole of the whole, the whole, the whole of the whole, the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole, the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the state of the whole of the whole of the whole of the state, the state, the state, the whole of the whole of the state, the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the state, the whole of the state of the state, the state of the whole of the whole of the state of the state of the state, the whole of the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the state of the state of the state, the state, the whole of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the whole of the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the It is something that is related to the fact that only such society can be a society that will move towards the future, towards prosperity and create some kind of path that we should move to leave behind generations of heritage that should be held and that will ensure that they are the leaders of overall prosperity, not only in the Republic of Serbia and not only in the Balkans, but that they are competitors for prestigious roles in the entire area of Europe's continent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12225	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of SDPS, MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12226	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, we are talking today about two decisions that, although related to human resources, can greatly affect, or affect, the improvement of the education system itself. These are decisions on the appointment of nine members of the Management Board of the national accreditation and quality assurance body in higher education and a decision on the selection of 17 members of the National Council for Higher Education. Another 2005 law, the Law on Higher Education, introduced the principle of the Bologna Declaration and the Lisbon Convention into our higher education system, creating the basis for Serbia's inclusion in the European higher education area. In this sense, in 2018, by decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we establish a national body for accreditation and quality checking in higher education, as a body with the intention of functioning in full independence in the institutional sense, but also in financial, administrative, professional and all others. Therefore, it is an independent body that must function without the influence of the states, but, on the other hand, it must also cooperate with it in order to achieve a common goal, which is to improve the very system of higher education, or raise it to a higher level than the existing one. The national accreditation body performs accreditation tasks, therefore, to check the quality of higher education institutions and units in their composition, to evaluate the study programmes and to ensure the quality of higher education in Serbia. It is about an independent body whose decisions practically determine the direction in which our education system will develop, as well as the success of this development as the ultimate result. The introduction of this body into the education system in 2018 showed a poor attitude and a completely different approach by the state compared to the higher education system itself, because for the first time in higher education, i.e. in these independent bodies, it included people who are expert on the programmes themselves and on the direction of development of higher education at the end and decide. You will agree with me that knowledge is a basic resource and an economic but every other development and it is inextricably linked to education itself, and modern society is undoubtedly a knowledge society, and for this very reason knowledge and competence are the basic assumptions of its development. As individuals, they enable us to actively engage in society and to take on ourselves and work but all other social roles. This means that we must learn throughout our lives, that we must learn to treat one another, to respect one another, because it is the social component of each educated man. Formal education, although very important, is only a prerequisite for doing any other job. In the modern world, each of us has to be further perfected, because the labour market is changing at an incredible rate, and in order to follow it, every new generation must acquire some other knowledge and other skills, in order to remain in the process of work, that is to say, training for the rest of their lives. As a country, we still cannot boast about the state of the number of educated in Serbia. Only 11% of the population have completed college and only 5% of the completed high school, which is still well below the European average, and if we ask the students, I'm sure they'll tell you that the biggest problem they're facing today is the lack of practice that they could apply parallel to learning and that's what maybe these two bodies should be working on in the next period, because they don't encourage data from the Statistics Institute, which is only about 30% of the population with a finished primary school. Studies show that most of Serbia's illiterate populations are women. The figure moves about 130,000 completely illiterate women in Serbia. They continue to deal mainly with women's professions, but on the other hand, it is paradoxical that they are also more highly educated than women. You will often hear from educated and successful women that education is the key to any success, private, business and any other, and I think that that is enough motivation for all young generations who decide whether or not they will be educated. Although education is a fundamental human right from which our ability to realize and all other human rights arises, the world is no different from those statistics, and even 17% of adults around the world do not know how to read and write, two-thirds of which are women and these statistics have not changed much in the last 20 years. Knowledge and education enables an individual to engage in social life, and therefore investment in science and education, and hence human resources, brings great benefits not only to an individual but also to society and state in general. Education is something that has always appeared as the most effective way to solve many social problems, but it must be consistent with modern programmes, educational programmes in higher education institutions, and I think that providing quality higher education programs is actually one way to ensure the development of society in general. Besides, I'd like to say that educated workers have three basic advantages compared to others. I mean the earnings, which are certainly bigger, I mean their employment opportunities, but also the safety of employment at all. If we look at Europe and the area where we live, roughly, the countries of northwestern Europe have been far more successful than the countries of southern and eastern Europe when it comes to the impact of education on the very development of society, which is certainly due to faster industrialisation in those countries. For example, Great Britain is a country that was industrialized before everyone else and still takes a very high place at the rate of education, and that, you'll agree with me, is not an accident. More quality education in all environments, and especially in those that I have cited, has resulted in a fundamental change in the education system itself. I think we have a similar problem in our country, so instead of insisting on authority, in a classical lecture as a form of teaching, the education system would have to move towards the introduction of methods that would stimulate thinking in younger generations, or, in order to say that, to teach them how to learn. I think it's very important to step up with the tendencies of young generations and find a way to make productive use of them. A little attention is paid to changing the system of values and ways of thinking today’s young generations. We cannot talk about the system of education and its efficiency unless we know the psychology of the students and students themselves who study and study in that system. There are more research into today's generation of young people and each of them indicates that it is necessary to include them actively in the debate on the education system. In the end, each of us belongs to a particular generation and to the time in which we were born, dictates and the way in which we are educated, but also the possibility of applying the same education, or exploiting it. The society that molds us while we're young remains with us more or less throughout our lives and is preparing for today's discussion I found an excellent analysis in which it is stated that the time in which we were born may have a greater impact on our personality than the family that raised us, that is, in the words of an Arab proverb - people look more like times than they do on their fathers. That's why education analysis and how important the characteristics of the young generation are, because it's a generation that grows up in a completely different system compared to the systems in which we grew up. Modern technology, lifestyle, different possibilities, are all the reasons that require us to adapt the education system to that same generation that is coming. These are the young people who put themselves first, who want freedom in everything they do, who like to have all the circumstances surrounding them personalized, that is to adapt them to their own needs and are very prone to research, which is proportionate to the development of modern technologies. For all of these reasons, I think it is very important to adapt the system of higher education to both young people and their way of life and thinking, in order to give the appropriate effects. So it is wrong to say that the attitudes of younger generations are wrong in relation to the attitudes of their parents. No, they're just different, they're different, and that's why we have to accept them so that we don't have a drop in the influence of school and university, with the growing refusal of young people to take education seriously and to simply understand what importance and importance in their lives can have education. I think it's very important that we hear their voice, which I participate in these bodies that we're talking about today, in part and accomplish. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has a very clear view on education and it is formulated through a strong message, which is an education ticket for a healthy and normal life and it really is. The educational process, along with family values, forms each individual and if the process takes place successfully in all its phases, then the individual, but the community, too, will benefit from it. Education is good for everyone and it's a prerequisite for his progress. So, in Serbia, we have to deal with the creation of a country of education, which means including all the relevant factors of the education system in order to have as a result a good system that will function in practice. Although I have devoted most of my time in today's presentation to young generations, I would also point out that Serbia can be praised for being one of the few countries in the region that has a modern adult education strategy, but unfortunately there are not so many successes in implementing it, and one of the main problems involved in the educational structure of the population, i.e. illiteracy is currently being solved only in 14 primary adult education schools that are organised but not sufficiently efficient. Finally, I think that educated people honor and shape society and have the greatest impact on the economic growth and development of a country. That's why in front of the members of these two bodies, whose choice we are talking about today, is one big, serious and responsible task. They must find a balance between the desires of young generations and their need to organise certain things in their own way, but at the same time the needs of the state to regulate the system properly. As a parliamentary group, we will in voting day provide support for these bodies to continue working to improve higher education, as has been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12227	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of Unity Serbia, Mr Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12228	Thank you. Dear Minister Ruzic and the co-worker from the ministry, the Honored Chairman, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Jevdić, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are present today two important decisions, the first on the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education and the second on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the National Body for Accreditation and Quality Security in Higher Education. Of course, at the very beginning, I will say that the JS Parliamentary Group will support the two decisions mentioned, because they will certainly contribute to further development and improvement of quality as regards higher education. Minister Ruzic, before I move on to the topics mentioned, so the first topic on the selection of members of the National Council, the second on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the National Accreditation Body, I would like to say that Serbia is a country that is secretly moving forward in all areas and Serbia is a country where we have both security and stability. All of this I am saying, although the world is facing a major crisis caused by the Kovid-19 pandemic, many major economies are on their knees, and on the other hand Serbia is showing results. When I say that, I'm just going to illustrate a few things that are significant. For example, we have fiscal and monetary stability, salary increases and pensions at the time of Kovid-19, kilometers of highways, over 60% of all investments coming into the Western Balkans' space heading towards Serbia. It speaks of the trust investors have in Serbia, but on the other hand, we reached about 3.5 billion euros in direct foreign investment in 2021. The level of public debt is at 51.7%, and as far as this is a result, not paying back at a time when public debt was over 80%, says the fact that one France has a public debt of over 100%, one Italy has over 100%, and speaking of countries in the context of countries that are members of the EU, such as Croatia or Slovenia, have a greater public debt than Serbia. Minister, on the other hand, I'm saying all of this, given that knowledge is a driver of development in all areas, let's say from the economy, on the other hand of health, like defence, sports, but also all other areas. Education in every society is the most important, but on the other hand, the most complex process and system. Certainly there is no development of society and state without greater knowledge and better application of acquired knowledge. Minister, I said earlier that the state of Serbia is taking big steps forward in all segments. I especially want to say one of the most important areas here, which is the area of education. I will say in secret that we have made a major step forward as far as the field of education is concerned. Even, on the other hand, at the time of the pandemic Kovid-19 education is not allowed to stop at any moment, and all the results that have been achieved in this area are in favour of taking large steps forward. The time that comes anyway, I must say, is that it is time for better results for education, given the quality of the basics set by the new education strategy. Of course, it is significant to note on the other hand that the EU has not only recognised all these results, but on the other hand praised all the good results in the field of education. I'll go back to two of those. The first topic is the selection of members of the Management Board of the National Council and other topics of appointment, i.e. Decision appointing members of the Management Board of the National Accreditation Body. First, speaking of the National Council for Higher Education, I must say that this is after your ministry, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the second most important body in charge of higher education responsible for strategic planning and decision-making in the main issues relevant for the coherence of the higher education system. The National Council, as you said, has a four-year term. There are 17 members elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to take care of both gender representations. Of the 17 members of the six members are selected from the ranks of prominent regular professors, two members from the ranks of professors of vocational studies, seven members from the ranks of top experts, or artists and two other members on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce, and when it comes to student issues on the other hand in the National Council, two students who are selected by the student conference in the order of students who cannot have a lower average of eight. The funds for the work of the National Council and its work shall be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the National Council shall submit an annual report to the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on its work. When it comes to the National Accreditation Body, it performs accreditation tasks, checks on the quality of higher school institutions and units in their composition, evaluation of student programmes and quality assurance in higher education. The Authority of the Management of the National Accreditation Body shall be the Management Board and the Managing Authority shall be the Director. The Governing Board, as you said, has nine members appointed by the National Assembly, taking care of the representation of both sexes without mentioning which parts they come from. You already said that. Just to say that the powers of the Management Board to choose, resolve the Director, elect and resolve the members of the Accreditation Commission, adopt the annual work programme and the financial plan with the consent of the Government, of course, and adopt the statutes and general acts, oversees the work of the Director. The national accreditation body reports to the government on its work once a year, but this can happen at the request of both the National Council and the Ministry. Finally, just once again to say that the JS Group MP will support both the first Decision appointing members of the National Council for Higher Education and the second Decision appointing members of the Management Board of the National Accreditation Body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12229	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Dunja Simonović Bratic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12230	The Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Chairman, the question of the future of our country and the state and development of our society lies in education in so-called education policies or policies to which we seek. Of course, it is much easier to ask this question than to answer. In our modern history, we've been through a few education reforms about through we haven't had a number of written strategies. Not long ago, the older colleagues here remember it, we had a famous 70-year-old reform created by Stipe Shuvar, which aimed at abolishing previous high school education and introducing a targeted vocational high school education. The social arrangement at the time was based on self-management, the idea that the work and the working man were the bearers of the development of society. In 1968, the school was defined as a self-administrative work organisation of special administrative importance. Thanks to economic reform, the principle of income is introduced according to the results of work, which enables companies to play a greater role, and thus begins the liberalisation of society, in the translation of the market. The idea base of this concept was based on socialism, which basically has an idea of the equality of all people, which is in the conveyed meaning of education for all. Let us remember that since 1945, the right and obligation of primary education, which we still inherit, was then won. Mass Describing has led to the development of society. Today in our education system we have dual education, which is the product of economic requirements, the demand for trained labour that dictates the labour market. At that time, socialism was considered an ideal theoretical basis. Today we have capitalism, which has been a famous revolution since 2000, for the great happiness and joy of our fellow citizens, and let us not forget students, triumphantly entered Serbia. Many theorists call modern forms of harsh capitalism a supervisory capitalism, which could not function without digitisation and digital technologies. Today's criticism comes down to the story of depolitisation of the school, which is essentially a pointless requirement, since the state is always guided by a certain policy, not to say that enlightenment was created by taking over the monopolies of knowledge from the church, transferring it to the state. It's like a monopoly over force. Monopoly of force and monopoly of knowledge are the main features of modern states. In step with the world, we will soon have a national prom, and JOB, a unique educational number, has been introduced, allowing each student to have easier competence at the international level, where in the context of so-called. The global village allows multinational corporations to realise the concept of global world governance. This modern dictatorship has no mercy on the national concept of school. That's why the Intonation of Anthem Act at the beginning of the school year restored everyone to a sense of speciality and pride regarding both our school and the very feeling of statehood. But also, 17 school textbook publishers, hyperproductions, which are wolves, which are doctors of science, the introduction of paid classes, a great gap in the quality of teaching and extreme education between private and state colleges, certainly do not contribute to the symphony of sound, which even this anthem cannot overcome. Today we elect members of the Management Board of the National Body for Accreditation, Quality Security in Higher Education, as well as members of the National Council for Higher Education. As we heard, changes and additions to the Higher Education Act were adopted here last year, allowing the National Accreditation Body to fully meet European standards and quality assurance guidelines in higher education. In order to restore the status of a full member within the framework of the European Quality Security Association in the higher education of ENKVA, what is now required by this law? Greater independence is required in the selection of these members. How do you come by that? More independence is reflected in the fact that members of the Management Board of the National Body for Accreditation and Quality Security in Higher Education are now elected by Members of the National Council for Higher Education by MPs. Now, to tell you the truth, we can ask ourselves if there are perhaps two European Unions, or, even more poetically, one European Union for a day and the other for a night? Because now it turns out that we had a guarantee of independence for these bodies, and yesterday we had a referendum on the independence of judges and prosecutors where we had as a key thing to take down the Stigm mark to actually block the independence of the judiciary. They have now gained independence and the referendum has confirmed it. The paradox is that the Venice Commission insisted on it, i.e. The EU, and judges and prosecutors convinced us as much as they were, in fact, independent because of the basic judgments, on behalf of the people. Since this paradox, believe me, is indecisive, I can only say that those who now regret not being able to comb the public and often, not so gently, biographies of these new untouchable holders of judicial functions will now be able to demonstrate their blade over the biography of members of these bodies. I can only add - why do you always have to be an enlightener? Because now that it's their first time choosing them like this, and at the end of the term, I wish them happy work instead of blessing. We will certainly vote for these members today. I would also refer to this loan between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for a project loan for the Centre for Dual Education Training. We heard from the minister what a capital project this is. This is about investing in project activities involving reconstruction of training facilities in Vrsac and Belgrade in aviation education in civilians. Of course, according to all those parameters you listed, which leads to an air fairy tale. Simply, since we have established that the EU has a night and day variant, I am interested in the following. If Vrsac Pilot Academy is now in the dual education system, if Serbia-Montenegro Flight Control is no longer the owner of the academy, but this pilot training centre has moved on to the ownership of the High School, the Air Force School and the Air Force Academy, how will this be done as accreditation, what is the management method, since it is not cheap and that it is planned for foreign students to come? By now, as I understand it, the school has cost more than 40,000 euros a year. Since you pointed out that although there is a long tradition of pilot training, flight control and engineers in our country, they have never been in a state education system before. A 20m-euro credit and so much still is being invested by the state of Serbia, means, for now, 40m euros, counting ten and a half million euros for land purchased where all this should be organised. Your assistant, who runs the dual education sector, Dr. Gabriela Grujic, visiting this project, said that we own EACE standards, that by 2024 students from around the world can be educated here. Goran Cvijovic said the centre will be in full capacity on January 1st, 2024. With that flight simulator certified by the EACE and hopes to have a certified pilot training centre in Serbia on March 1st 2022, and this would lead to pilots being educated with those permits for a year and a half. So we still have to deal with this center's certification. What's an EASA? It's the EU Air Safety Agency. When you go to the EASA site, you can see that this agency has 35 member states, or more than EU countries. We, unfortunately, are not here. We have Panep status, Pan-European Partners. In translation, we are in a community of countries that are working together to implement the standards of the EU Aviation Safety Agency. This status also has a so-called Kosovo. So it's part of the community of states. My concern is who gets the certificate here, as all the deals with the EASA were signed by Mirjan Cismarov, director of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. If they sign, how is the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development there in the contract and how is the changing and extremely insecure position of the EU on the fact that we will become a full member also means for this story? So that we didn't have everything painted and installed for nothing, and then the EU delivered to us a request that is unacceptable to us, so the certification stays really in the air. So, what's our security clearance for the pilot training center? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12231	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group „Alexandar Vučić – For our children“, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12232	Respected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected Minister Ruzic, respected Secretary of State Dukic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are on the agenda today two points in the area of higher education. This is about a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the National High Education Council and a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Management Board of the National Authority for Accreditation and Quality Security in Higher Education. When I listed these two bodies, very important, very important for all education and education, then many are not clear what this is about. Because in the earlier period of our society's development, the organisation, not only of the ministry, but of other bodies, was on another basis. It has been shown in practice, in my opinion, in the last 20, 30 years, that some things should change in the future. When it comes to education and education, then we can really see that it represents one of the pillars of the development of each society, including the Republic of Serbia. It is the driver of overall social and economic progress. We all know that and we know those two sentences. Also, education and education is the assumption of the development of democracy in our country. I purposely say education and education, because you will rarely hear it in our country, you will hear – education, education, and education is not education. You who are from a language group of subjects know what education means in one country, somewhere it means only education, and in another education and education, it has more meaning. But we have a wonderful title – education and education, before education, first word, then education, it's pedagogues, schools, those who have studied pedagogy very well know what it is. The importance of education and education for the development of society has been seen in ancient Greece by the great Greek philosopher and educator Plato. You see, he pointed out the importance of not only education and education for the development of society but also the importance of educators, but also the importance of teachers, of those who raise. That's crucial. I'll quote it. He said in his "State" section, quotes: "The state will not be harmed if the shoemaker has no idea about his trade, only the Athenians will be badly shoeed, but if the teacher is a bad parenting child, the future generation will be a society of ignorant people," the quote concluded. So he threw the accent at the education. Why am I in charge here today? Because in the previous 12 years, or 14 years of former authorities, education has been kicked out of school. We had teachers and teachers where they were not allowed to mention the word "request". Also, our president of the state, Aleksandar Vucic, as president of the Serbian government in his 2016 exhibition to elect the Prime Minister on 9 August 2016, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, devoted the most space to education and education. So, you see, he devoted eight pages of education to exposure and education. That's more than the total exposé of previous government presidents backwards was, not to say how much, just education and education. Now, let me say that the then Prime Minister, and today's president of the state on page 71 of the exposé, has said, quote: "What is most important to me and what I wrote about the most in the exposé is education reform, because this is the most important thing for us, because it is human capital for the future, and we have to learn and learn. We need to raise knowledge to a pedestal from which you can see further and from which you can move on to new campaigns, to the adoption of new knowledge," finished the quote. Why am I quoting this, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Because in modern political relations, it is rare to find in Europe a single Prime Minister that in his exposé for the election of the Prime Minister, he has given so much space to the importance of education and education. I, as a man who follows education and education, by vocality and pedagogue, not just a historian, seems to me in the last 30 years that it was the only former president of the Government of England in his exposé, but all mentioned in a few sentences. So why did the president stress that then? Because he knew so much that we cannot go to reforms in economic, economic, without reforming education and education. I will inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia today as long as we have arrived and what we want last. President Vukic then had in mind the words of a great English philosopher when he said so, I suppose Francis Bekon, who said, quote: "Knowledge is power. A grain of knowledge is stronger than steel," finished quote. I am truly sure that the Prime Minister then, Vukic, had in mind the thoughts of the great German philosopher Leibnica, whom, if you have noticed, President Vukic very often quotes in his performances, which showed the power of education in education for the development of society, when he said, I quote: "Give me education and education and we will in a short time than we will change the character of Europe for a century," finished the quote. So you see the power of education and education. That is why then the government of Aleksandar Vukic went not only to reform the economic system and financial, but to reform education and education. Why? So precisely because the previous government of Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic reduced education to a very low level, not to mention destroying education and education. Dear citizens, I'll tell you what we inherited. The education system left by the former Jeremic, Tadic and Djilas had these characteristics. You're witnesses, respected educators, if that's true. First, the evaluation of the system, then the politicization of the education system, bureaucratization and, worst of all, antipedagogisation. Imagine that school directors were declared managers, not pedagogical educators of educational institutions, because the director should have organisational skills, and he is primarily a pedagogical manager. Since then, we've been having an educational component thrown out of our school. Furthermore, commercialization, our schools have turned into this, the corrosion of an inefficient system, it is indeed inefficient today. You read today in the press why we have wolves all over the department. You know, I can see that, gentlemen, don't let the press get mad, this isn't a criticism, I don't think one part of it goes into education and education. The curricula and programs are written for the average student, you see, and for the average student, and the teacher with his ability to adapt the program to those more advanced and those below. And it's a big deal, it's a tough job. Only one who loves discipline and education and who loves our children can do that. That's really all people can do. Next, the pastamania, you saw that they left us, that was terrible. The degradation of the teacher's call was reduced to a minimum. I'm not saying it's high-level, but there's a teacher's call now. The weariness of school buildings, it was an unseen miracle. That is why the government of Aleksandar Vukic went into reform of the educational system, which, among other things, was mirrored by the introduction of dual education, which Minister Ruzic was talking about here in the opening part, but also digitisation. Dear Ministers, when we introduced dual education and digitization, our political opponents in this high house mocked these processes. I'll tell you where we are today and where the advanced world is. The digitisation process was introduced in 2017 and, behold, this school 2021/22. The first generation of high school graduates who have studied as a subject of the Internet and programming for the past four years in school. Do you see how far we've made progress? With this digitalisation process launched in 2017, we have created a great advantage as the state of Serbia not only in the region, respected citizens, but also in Europe. The government of the Republic of Serbia also formed the Ministry of Science in 2018 to finance 12 projects from the domain of artificial intelligence. Believe it or not, but it was done by the government of the Republic of Serbia by the Ministry of Education. The Republic of Serbia is one of the few countries that can be praised for having a strategy to develop artificial intelligence. It was delivered in 2019. One of the few countries. Also, on December 6th 2021, the Republic of Serbia released the National Institute for Artificial Intelligence at the Kragujevac Data Centre. The first users will be seven technical universities and four scientific and technological parks established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry. That's what citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respected educators should know. The Republic of Serbia is one of the few countries, believe it or not, but it is true, which was founded by the Institute of Artificial Intelligence in Novi Sad. One of the few in Europe and the world, countries. With regard to artificial intelligence, Serbia ranks 46th of the 172-ranked country. Be careful, pay attention, we are better than the countries in the region than Croatia, which is 58th place, and we are 46th, we are better than Montenegro, they are 70th place, so for 24 places we are better than Montenegro, we are better than Northern Macedonia, they are in 73rd place, we are better than Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are 100th place. Only in front of us is the Republic of Slovenia, something for seven places. I think in two years we'll outrun her in that area. This for the sake of knowledge and behavior, let's see where we are by the use of artificial intelligence. The application of artificial intelligence affects, respected citizens and respected educators to human relations, and we really need to take care of that, especially social loneliness that affects, and social loneliness affects premature death and demographics. You see, it's loneliness, artificial intelligence and digitization that leads to loneliness. We have, for example, today. In England, 700,000 men living alone. Imagine, and 1,100,000 women living alone. It would be good to see Serbia standing in this regard, and how does demographics affect it? That's why the huge role of school and college is in fighting loneliness. Nothing less involved with us and the family. These are the truth. Some schools fight in that. I will now be both direct and concrete. The accelerated use of modern technologies and their application at school, but also in the parenting home, affects the challenges of growing up our children, our students, and thus the development of student educational values. I especially underline that in the era of digitization. Therefore, the question is often asked – to what extent the use of modern technologies, devices such as pills, smartphones and the Internet can affect the educational component of the student's personality. As a committee, we've had one hearing about it recently, here in high school. Practice has shown that students very quickly accept most of the software content presented via computers or tablets in the teaching process. That's the truth with us. However, respected citizens have to do more than yesterday, every day we have a TV show on public service with national frequencies from educational issues, such as the former "Cube" or possibly today, "Kefalice" which makes an exception, and we don't have that, and it has to be. Contents broadcast through modern technologies in working with students must be controlled, both in schools and in a parent home, as their uncontrolled use can cause a wide range of negative effects that will affect the educational component of the student’s personality. It is a very important question – how much and how can schools and parents do to suppress Internet violence, since it is very present with us and has tragic consequences. You've seen it in our country these days, especially if we know that our students spend daily time on the Internet and on social networks. Today's youth, according to some studies, between 13 and 17 years of life, 92% spend daily time on the Internet and social networks. Digital violence against students and students is also taking place on social networks, message exchange applications and mobile phones. How can we act? We can combat this violence directly, but we can also indirectly. Now especially, since I don't have time to talk about it, just to point out that instead of holding the topic in class of the departmental community, fighting violence, I need to keep the topic straight and beautiful Internet use, which the student can, what not, how he forwards messages and so on. Since there is no time, let me say at the end that our parliamentary group will vote for these and for the National Council for Higher Education, as well as for accreditation. When it comes to, as the minister said, the National Council for Higher Education, it numbers 21 members, of which 12 members are from the ranks of regular professors and scientists, calling scientific advisors, two members, professors of vocational studies, and so on, seven members of the ranks of prominent figures. If someone asked me as a longtime educator and a man who deals with science, what would I suggest here and what I've noticed, these people have extremely rich biographies of science, professional and moral. I've only noticed that there's no representative of social humanist sciences at the National Council for Higher Education, especially pedagogogicals, which is unimaginable, but it's a disease of our society. We in SANU have no academics in the field of pedagogy, and I think one of the largest educators in this part of Europe is still alive, where his textbooks teach across Europe. And, you see, we've brought up education, let's say, to that level. What's the mission of the National Council? Let me just say in two sentences, to monitor the development of higher education, to propose a policy of higher education to the Ministry of Education, to propose to the government the normative and standards of higher education institutions, and to establish scientific areas. It's very important, but also self-evaluation and grading the quality of higher education, it goes a little harder, but hopefully in the future it will go in general. As you can see, the honourable MPs, our government, our ministry, in innovation technologies, have achieved envious results. We now have revenue from information technologies in the Republic of Serbia's budget of three billion, over three billion, and we have only two and a half billion from agriculture. I mean, how long have we been gone? Today, as the minister said, yesterday we were actually talking about the project and the dual education and the digitisation. So every school will be in that system. It was unimaginable in 2017 that there were our political opponents who were here that we would succeed, and we managed to go to modern technologies, worldly and we reached a level. On the other hand, in quotes, in the other corners of our country, we raise the level and that part. It's a huge task. The greatest contribution to this was made by our educators, such as doctors, our heroes, and so are educational workers. It's very difficult to be a teacher today, to be a professor and to work with children at a time when the educational component is reduced to a lower level. The biggest contribution to the dual education that we have discussed here, particularly the minister in his opening work, was given by our President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, when he was Prime Minister, on his initiative, and then by Mrs Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister and Minister today, as well as former Minister Mladen Sarcevic, and before him Verbic, and so on. We who have long followed, but this process is going faster and faster, and you have seen today where we are in modern technologies, not to say, at the top of this part of Europe. Finally, allow me, our parliamentary group will vote for these representatives, because it is about exceptional people, high moral and scientific qualities, and I am particularly pleased to have seen Professor Branko Kovacevic, who was the Rector here or Professor Mak. They're wonderful people, wonderful scientists, and so on, I've noticed others and everyone else is really amazing. You have guessed, indeed, the representatives of the ministry and the government in proposing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12233	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorized presidents of parliamentary groups, we are moving on the list of MPs. Before that, a notice about today's work. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12234	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored First Deputy Prime Minister, the Honored Representatives of the Ministry, Citizens and Citizens, today we are talking about the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education and the appointment of members of the Management Board of the National Authority for Accreditation, the important points of the agenda, which is fundamentally important for me and for our parliamentary group, something that will define our future in essence and we are seriously approaching all the points of the agenda, and especially for the education. I want to acknowledge the minister and his team and cabinet for everything they've done, also as much as this government that the Justice and Reconciliation Party supports is working on education as much as it understands the importance of education, we've heard statistics and it also says that we have another ministry, which is the Ministry of Innovation and Technological Development, led by Minister Nenad Popovic, who is also doing a very good job. And as soon as you do your job very well, as soon as citizens and citizens see the results of your work, then you are certainly the target of all those who do not want well for our country and our citizens. What I want to point out is that it's very important that in bodies dealing with accreditation we choose honest, responsible and professional people, which in some previous period, unfortunately, I can't say in previous governments that it was the case. In 2003, the International University of Novi Pazar was founded. It was one agreement between then-Prime Minister, late Djindjic and rickety Mufti Zukorlic, and it was a major historic move where citizens and citizens in Novi Pazar received the first university. From 2004, to 2012-2013, the permanent pressures and blows to the University by the DS and Boris Tadic regime. By establishing a government, then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and all these years, these pressures have stopped and everything we've said has been about it, and we don't want anyone to get accreditation if they don't deserve it. No, it's to end discrimination. It's just that we all have the same chances. That's what happened in practice. Why did the Democratic Party and Boris Tadic want to destroy the International University? Well, because they don't need educated Bosniaks, they need a voting machine. I am saying this because we, as a minority community, are not to forget how it was until 2012, and to underline that the injustice towards the International University has been corrected and that they are indeed playing an equal match, and that it is primarily due to the activation of the President of our party, Zukorlic, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. I would also like to point out, the contributions of the Committee on Education, Mufti Zukorlic, was president of the Committee in two terms, but I would also like to point out that Professor Atlagic and his contribution and all other fellow Members of Parliament through the Committee on Education, which is proof of our core commitment, that young people, children of generations who come are the fundamental priority of this government and our policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12235	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12236	Thank you. I will submit that the presentation of the distinguished colleague, Dunja Simonović Bratic, who was very well noticed that we in this parliament and then voted in the referendum, so-called. The independence of the judiciary from us and from future national representatives by saying that we should not influence their choice, and then we are in a position to vote for those people in the National Council for Higher Education and that this is again the result of some great independence. Something in the hypocrisy of the European Union is so strong that it stinks, that colleagues from the ruling coalition also notice. So the first thing that comes to mind when you see it is that Brussels doesn't care about education, it's only about hard power, and that's the judiciary. But it's not true. They've actually destroyed education for two decades so much that there's nothing to worry about anymore. When we talk about it, we can see some processes that show exactly what the intention of this education is, and what's my problem is that I can't vote for this kind of thing, regardless of what this minority is just a technical thing, counting that people who are going to be on the National Council for Higher Education are people of integrity and that they don't need to be challenged. I would like to say that it is strange that the Serbian Progressive Party is like a party that has mobilized millions of voters over the past ten years of its power and hundreds of thousands of members, has not had the courage to stop this process of destroying our education from Euro-Atlantic structures, from Brussels, and from everything that is, so on. Western education, education that has led us to the situation that higher education institutions do not produce intellectuals, but rather produce managers who need to get to a diploma as quickly as possible and then run to the labour market and valorize their diploma in terms of the most banal means of money. So, what does an intellectual mean? The intellectual is a category that the national states have designed as a way to make one elite out of their youth that understands social processes, understands their breadth, have the power to manage these processes. On the contrary, it is for us as a people who, in the European structure, from Brussels has no place of freedom, but only to give human resources, are not allowed to have intellectuals. We should have managers, people who will be fah idiots, people who will only know one process, because if we knew the whole system and the whole essence of the process, we would very easily see manipulation in that system and the way people are demoted and how, what Europe keeps quiet, and we know well in the Balkans, and when we say Europe, I mean Brussels and similar structures, it shows one racist relationship to Slovenian peoples. We are not meant to be equal in Europe, in this Europe of Brussels, we are meant to be only human resources, and other resources and we do not have the right to intellectual elite. That's why the Bologna Process has actually led to us not having a single student protest that is based on some larger ideas than the union rights of those students for a long time. Don't forget, student protests, student activistism has been in motion in Europe, liberating space for social change. We haven't had that in decades. We don't have it because Brussels doesn't need it, and here we need to be the perpetrators of it. We cannot restore sovereignty to our country if our education remains as it is. Privatisation of higher education institutions, like any other privatisation, is not in itself bad, if the state is strong enough to control it. However, it is usually accompanied by a weak state that does not control it. Then, in these private colleges, we come back to this situation so as not to produce intellectual elites, but managers who, as quickly as possible, are more efficient in getting to a diploma and run to the labour market. When you set things up like that a little bit still retains your morale, then when that dam breaks you get to the fact that the purchase of diploma is completely commercial and fine. I'm not saying what your political opponents, on the other hand of some ideological spectrum, say you're a wastelander, I mean the Serbian Progressive Party, people with bought diplomats, you're the biggest party, so as you have the highest number of quality people, you have the largest number of others. It's usually a system that's still set up with Bologna and everyone in Brussels is going to say that I'm making up, but that concept where you teach people to be just a cheap buyer of diplomas, not an intellectual, not a man who might be able to study longer, but he's going to fight for some social values, that's the concept that leads to someone thinking eventually that they should buy a diploma. It's all about higher education. What's very important is to see what the creepy state of ordinary education is, in this basic education, because of the pinnacles of hysteria. The only thing we still had, which is peer socialization, and it's being abolished. They simply want to turn us into slaves and human resources for their capitalist structures that are completely not human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12237	Thank you. Right to the replica, I assume, since the party was mentioned, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12238	Dear Vice President, we heard Mr. Glissic, and there are some things we really need to clarify. It's a good thing he noticed on one side that we don't raise, we don't educate elite anymore. What's important, what many don't understand, really, scientific workers, except for the vocality of the pedagogues, we've gone from one system to another. Which one was it before? Socialist. What was the goal of the general education? I'm going to be direct -- he was a versatile person with a rich mind, that's, Mr. Glisic, intellectual, moral, you know by which, health, work-technical and aesthetic. Since this was the goal of socialism, we have now moved to capitalism, but we have not redefine the general goal of education. To this day, no strategy. I've been warning about this for 20 years, and that's why we're having an education. We're not the general goal... What would I suggest as a pedagogue? Three thousand people at the "Sava Center" and until we redefine it, there are no dating, no practitioners, no theorists. We can't live in capitalism and have a socialist goal. If someone asked me as a man who was not only concerned with history, but also with education and I also inform you that I wrote a paper “The position of students and teachers in post-socialist countries”, which was published in an international magazine in Rome and compared that part and that magazine was the only magazine in the last 30 years that quoted the exposés of one Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. I was showing it. He dedicated eight pages to education and education. Now, if you'd asked me as a longtime educator and scientific, etc. I'd define it this way. No more versatilely developed personality, it's socialism. Capitalism doesn't have to, he buys, but what is it? So, no longer a universally developed personality with a rich intellectual, what you said, but a work-technical one. We're transferring from the bottom, because he needs physical labor and you said this right. That is, unfortunately, the essence of capitalism. He needs some intellectual elite scientists. If you were to ask me now, in a particular profession... We do not stand exactly as many think in certain ways. You know, when they see international references, there are few people in their profession. If we had only one scientific paper on the Thompson list, the Serbian state would be among the first in the world. At a university where you study in downtown Belgrade, 37 people don't have any work, and every night they're on TV. So the bottom line is that we can't live in capitalism and have a socialistic goal of raising. Why don't we do that, if you'd just ask me as a long-time... I'll tell you that by moving to a multiparty system we didn't put the role of the Ministry of Education at the level that we should have. How? We have an education and education facility, which is completely, so to speak, separate from the ministry and another institution as a complete unit. There should be the greatest minds in history, in heraldics, in enmity, in toponomastics, in economics, etc. They should be drawn better paid than university professors. What's the truth? They're paid very low and none of those university professors are going to go to that part. So in the future we have to do it. Let me finish. Unfortunately, who few knows the history of the Serbian people, Serbian citizens and this part of the Balkans will never get used to what is happening in the west...
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12239	Professor, I'm sorry to interrupt, but we'll take the time of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12240	Here, just one more sentence. It'll take a while. She won't get used to what happened in the U.S. four days ago. A student enters the classroom and kills four students. No one out there notices that. It's unimaginable here. We must restore the family's role in raising school, society, political parties, to this high home, so Borko Stefanovic will come to fight here with you, with me who comes first, who prepares better, who offers a better program. This is the essence of education and economics, etc. So that's the point. We're at a crossing, like many Eastern European countries, but I think we're on the right track, because in 2000 it was brought down to zero. Well, we had a college in Ledina, Vojvodina and Banja Luka. When our inspector came from the ministry in Banja Luka, he said - they came for a field trip. That's right, and that's what we pointed to. It's gonna take a lot of time and a lot of years to get to the level we've been to. That's my opinion. We are raising for the future today, and that is why digitization and dual education are an extraordinary thing. We're doing it, but not with everyone. The program is for a middle-school student, a good one. The teacher adapts individual abilities to the talents and those... But it's not that easy. That's why a teacher has to love education, has to love students and students. Without it, there's nothing. You've noticed. So that's true, only capitalism, unfortunately, doesn't ask for what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12241	Thank you. After calling you directly, MP Vladan Glisic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12242	I thank Professor Atlagic for this exhaustive response. I often disagree with you politically, but I very much appreciate your experience of educators and scientists, especially from socialism, because we have already become aware that this story of capitalism is beginning to be slowly spent and there are more phases and more forms of capitalism. There is capitalism with a human character and man-eating capitalism coming from the west, from the political west, from Euro-Atlantic integration. One more thing's interesting why it's time to open up the topic of capitalism and socialism. No matter what the fall of communism in 1989, as they said, with the fall of the Berlin Wall, we are now in a situation that a communist party with a single communist country is slowly winning the world, and this communist party has made one step, abandoning Marxist mistakes. She leaned on her confucionism, the organic state of her people, and all the systems in the world are actually measured by whether my attention is at the centre of my attention or at the centre of my capital attention. You can build capitalism where there's a man at the center of attention. This capitalism will take care of education, because we need an intellectual elite and all that you've said, especially about it, because I haven't been able to say any more about basic education. Because of this harsh capitalist relationship towards parents who work overtime to ensure the very existence of their children, education was brought into a position to actually be guardians of those children and that at the same time, when the authority of all educational workers dropped below each level, they were only guardians of children, but there were peer socializations. Now with the covid hysteria and it's been lifted and we... What I resent to the Serbian Progressive Party is not those attempts that you, with dual education, correct something, but why, with the strength you have and in the electoral body and the rest, did you not have the courage to step further out of that embrace of Euro-Atlantic educational structures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12243	The next from the list is National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12244	Thank you. Dear Vice-President Kovac, Honored Deputy Prime Minister Ruzic, Honored Professor Dukic Mijatovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice to hear that we have in Parliament, I feel free to say, this kind of ideological debate in which something called the Development Strategy and the future is firstly here. Today we are talking about higher education, which is, of course, crucial to the further development of our country and this institution and bodies such as the National Accreditation Body, but also the National Council for Higher Education, which in fact play a advisory role and create a strategy for the development of higher education and ensure that the quality of higher education is in line not only with European standards, but also with standards that correspond to our country and which correspond to what is called the economic development and economic development of our country. We all know well, and the citizens of Serbia know that our economic development is going on an upward path, that it is very dynamic, at global level is the development of such science and new technologies, that jobs that have been and have been current today, but in a few years Serbia does not exist and that, in line with the High Education Development Strategy, which I think it has for the first time, given that President Aleksandar Vucic has come to the post of prime minister in 2014, has this clear goal and a clear vision of how education should look and how it should adapt and coordinate his development with the development of the economy and those economic branches that will be strategically developed in Serbia in the coming period. So, this is the first time in recent history that this country, thanks to President Alexander Vukic, has a clear vision of all of those key social aspects, in which, of course, we clearly focus and put the focus not only on higher education, but on overall and secondary education, but also on science and technological development, since Minister Ružić and only the ministry cover the entire portfolio, which is good, because today you cannot separate high education from technological development, nor from science, because this belongs to a single Corps, development Corps and that Corps that we need to develop our economy, so that we can develop the capacities of our people, our managers, all those who participate in the development of this country. What was interesting to me and what I have to answer for, when it comes to the ideological approach of all of this, which Mr Vladan Glisic was talking about, is this key difference that we in SNS are proud of, that we are people and parties who advocate a liberal market economy, for a free market that opens up competition. What's a panda, what's the opposite of that? The opposite of that is all we had until 2012, egalitarianism, apparent equality between people, between institutions, between the private and public sectors, and in fact none of it existed, in reality, nothing existed in practice. This led to this country being completely destroyed in 2012 in every sense. And what has President Alexander Vukic done about this issue since 2014? What was his main goal? It is primarily to change, in a way, to influence the change of the ambience, to change the mayndset, to say, especially young people, to develop a entrepreneurial spirit in young people, to develop their desire to fight to develop their capacities in every sense, and in terms of their educational aspect, therefore, their education, progress, career, family and each other. That, Mr. Glissic, is absolutely not contrary to what defines the respect of all those principles and values that the SNS advocates. It's a strong, strong state, a strong, strong family, protecting vital national interests. It's something that we're also protecting vital national interests by creating an ambience in this country, by developing a higher education, by developing a market, by developing a game between individuals on that market, just creating conditions for us young people to stay here in this country, to live in this country, to be good at it, to be able to make a good living, not to be ashamed of them if they say they make a lot of money, to work in multinational companies, to start their own business, to be something that's normal, to be quick, to be such an ambience that those who work, that those who want to work 10, 12 hours a day in their companies, in other companies, want more, to be exactly what is the comparative advantage of our society. We have come to our success today because we have a lot of people who want to get educated, who want to perfect themselves, who want to work and who want to do more. That is why Serbia today has the cumulatively highest economic growth across Europe in the past two years of 7.5%, because we have people, because we have young people who no longer go to Poland, Italy, France or another country to work, I mean these highly educated, highly qualified personnel, because this country, thanks to President Vukic, has made a very good adjustment to the fourth industrial revolution, has prepared very well for all of us as a challenge, not only in terms of the development of economy, but in terms of everything that awaits us in geopolitical terms. The economy, the development of the economy, the retention of young people here and the staff, the work on how to make us more and how to keep these people here in this country, is just the work of protecting our vital national interests, to strengthen and strengthen our army and to go through in the best possible way these turbulences that we can't influence, and it concerns the global level and global crises that are happening today in the whole world. We see here and near us, in Ukraine, and a crisis in the South China Sea and a crisis in the Middle East. It's not that, Mr. Glissic, absolute capitalism without a face. This is the capitalism that the SNS advocates, exactly capitalism with a human face, because we have a man in focus. Look at our social policy, we are a party of the right center, we are a conservative party, we advocate a market economy, for competition, we want to win better, so we motivate each other to do more, to learn more, to know more, that our young people are better than their competition in Croatia, Albania, in neighbouring countries, why not in the EU. We showed that we could be champions not only in sports, but also in science, in many skills and in many other aspects where we didn't show up until 2012, where we couldn't ask for a nose, because our country absolutely didn't have a strategy until then how this country would develop properly, so we had some interests and some people educated to the unconscious, even though they knew people who ran the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, at the time, that there would be no work, that there would be no place for those people, but they didn't care. The reasons were known, repeated a million times by my colleagues here in parliament, by ordinary people, by ordinary citizens, because for those ordinary people who graduated either from high school and college or anything, they didn't care if there was going to be a job, so unemployment was 26%. You have to be realistic, when you look at the figures, when you look at the traffic lights, today after two years of the Vucic pandemic has 10.2% unemployment, in 2012, summer, July, 26% unemployment. What's this about? It's just that he knew what he was doing, that he knew what sectors to develop, that he knew how to make an ambience to come and invest here, no, Mr. Glisic, just EU firms, didn't rely on it, absolutely, that's where I can agree. It is, in fact, another additional quality and visionary of Alexander Vukic, if he did not go to the mantra – we are going to the EU, we will rely only on European aid and investment, or not on anyone's help. And that is the greatest value that we have introduced into this country and it stands as one of the first in our 10 points for the future, and that is to lead an independent and independent policy. That's why we have investments here today and we're working together on a scientific, technological and educational plan with the People's Republic of China and with the Russian Federation in fields and artificial intelligence and new technologies. We're opening new tech parks, science parks. That's why this country is making progress today, because we haven't been committed and we're not predecessors, like the Thai regime until 2012, because we don't have an important relationship, because Vucic says -- it's okay, we're working on all projects that are in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this country, but also, in that interest, we're working together with China and their universities and universities and scientific centres and with Russian and those of the United Arab Emirates, with all those who can bring technology here to Serbia, who can bring something new that we can learn about new governance models, new models of how we're going to hire people. After all, you have to admit that he managed to from one working-intense economy, which we had, or we didn't have, in 2012, it was all destroyed here, Mr Martinovic remembers well, it wasn't in October 2012 for the salaries of the Resavica mines, it wasn't for the salaries of people working in the public sector, who are just supposed to be the support of the economy. It is Vučić's idea and logic, the service of citizens, services to people, citizens and businesses. For us businessmen are not as they were by 2012, the subject of tycoon and political tycoons and the subject of their racketeering, the taking of money and putting into their own pockets, but the people who pay taxes to this country, who hire people and who we need in the best way possible to respect, because all of these roads that we built, the whole infrastructure, better life, bigger profits, bigger pensions, more aid, a health system, the health care and safety of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we need to thank this environment that Alexander Vukic created here in the Republic of Serbia in order to be able to do all of this but realistically, to build both hospitals, to buy and obtain vaccines, to have a good and quality social policy and to deal with demographic policy in one strategic way. I only listen to those intellectuals you're talking about, not everyone can be part of the university. His very word says: university, universal education. I appreciate that, but someone has to finish the trade, someone has to finish secondary education, someone has to finish high-level dual education, and all of them congratulations to Minister Ruzic and the entire ministry and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce who implemented this idea that we are training people who are capable of the market. Of course they should be able to market and they should know from 15 to 16 that two dinars are made from one dinar, that they should pay taxes to this country, that it is the greatest honor for a man who is a citizen of a state. We pay him back by making these science centers, providing and making new schools, renovating them, doing everything we can to invest in equipment, investing in that so-called. soft infrastructure, which we did. In five years, Vukic has done what is inconceivable, which neither the citizens nor we here could even dream about this economic development and everything that defines the dynamics of the overall social development of this country and finally what allowed us to actually lead the independent policy of this country. These universal and experts for everything, you saw for yourself how they proved themselves when a man who was a candidate and so on. Boycottic anti-states are free to say the opposition say, watch out, 21st century and a dead cold comes out and says, you know, I don't know how to do operational jobs. So, I've never done anything in my life, except to be part of some department and some diplomatic representation, never caught up with any operational work, to do something good for my building, for my neighbors and tenants, let alone for a city or a settlement or a municipality in Belgrade. He says I don't know how to do that, but we're gonna hire a team. You know, what a little Perica would imagine. What do you think, that this country would have made so much progress, and all this stuff that I've been talking about if Vukic hadn't worked 20 hours a day, that at least here we're trying to get that scale that he's set up so high, that we're at least following it, to get to the result that we can show you at the traffic light, and that's miles of highways, the jobs we can see. That's what citizens see and feel and that's why Vukic has plebiscite support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, 70% of the support. That is why we will win on April 3rd, because citizens and people see SNS and Aleksandar Vukic working in the best interests of this same people and this country, for the first time in the recent history of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12245	Thank you. Right on line, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12246	Dear Professor, in many things I can agree with you and in many things you are right, as well as the whole story of the Serbian Progressive Party. Such a big party will be a phenomenon for study. The president of your party and the president of Serbia, who showed great will for power and knowledge of government technology, will also be a man of historical study. Then there's no one-meaning thing. There are a lot of things you have to do and there are a lot of things you could and you haven't done and there are a lot of bad things that will come with you, just because you're the phenomenon of a completely new political phenomenon. So, I'm not contesting what you said about the need to create a competitive environment, to create an exit to the market, to make it possible for entrepreneurs and people with a spirit of creating new values to be both in education and in the economy everywhere. However, through the example of Prof. You're ruling Jankovic, who you didn't list but you've criticized him and your party is criticizing him, a good example of us not getting along. Vladeta Jankovic, like me, was a member of the DSS Vojislav Kostunica, he was at the top I was much lower, but I never agreed with him ideologically, he was always pro-Western, because the party Vojislav Kostunica as well as the SNS had both western and then not eastern but more national wings. In that sense, I disagreed with him about many things. However, I remember putting on myths and legends, remembering that it is now a man who is 80 years old, but in those 80 years he has done much for our culture, and for our history and for generations he raises. This, not to offend you, but a bit of a Bolshevik relationship with someone who is 80 years old and has given a lot to our culture, until he really couldn't give anything to our economy because it's not his call, it says that the SNS sometimes forgets that the state isn't just business and GDP, that the state and culture and intellectuals and what we need to understand is a new concept that many of you have already understood, but you as a party have not yet articulated it, and this is also about education, which we didn't understand. They won't give us foreign corporations to give tens of thousands of euros to encourage our people to be entrepreneurs, they want to turn them into cheap labour. They don't need competition here. Small businesses, small businesses, entrepreneurs, must have the support of their own country and that is a model that is completely different from what those from the West are looking for and you as SNS have not yet opposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12247	Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12248	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Glisic, I have not mentioned a single moment of no year, and that is the key thing and policy of our party, and we have shown this on many, many occasions, especially our president, that we do not distinguish the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This man, Mr. Jankovic, himself spoke of his age and spoke, publicly said, that he was incapable of running the city. We have shown how wide we have, and when it comes to respect for human and minority rights and how much we care and how significant that we have stability in the country and that we respect every citizen of this country, no matter what religion, nation or any other belonging he has. If someone didn't show it and that's why there's this rating and the results, it's what Alexander Vukic did, but let me tell you something, this is about someone who's been exorcised and who's the candidate of that so-called. opposition to elections for the city of Belgrade. With all due respect and knowledge about history, philosophy and a certain contribution, I'm not going into it at all, but I'm talking about someone who's supposed to be at the dispatch center at three o'clock in the morning and waiting for the snow to come down to clean that snow with the teams, controlling that process, which will control how all the public and municipal enterprises in this country function because the citizens of this city can't stand a moment when it comes to their quality of life and all the services they pay for in this city. It's about being someone who's operational, responsible, of course, educated, someone who understands people, who understands human problems, but someone who's capable and knows how to work for 20 hours, who's ready to do it. That's what we're saying in SNS that if you want to work for the state, if you want to work for the city of Belgrade or any municipality or local community, that's the condition of son qua non of our operation. You have to be simply prepared for sacrifice, to be 100% committed to it because running a state, running a city, running a municipality, all that has and implies public interest for us is law. There is this main difference that we, and in our human resources, and in everything that Alexander Vukic does, we don't approach it, you know, sheretically -- now that Pera, we like him, he wrote two books, or he's interested in the restaurant, or he's bohemian or something, because Dragan Gilas is hiding and he can't go out again, because he knows how to treat him in these elections and not get 2% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But we can't help but point out that someone dead is cold with such an education, for which I have a lot of respect, says – you know, I'm incapable of doing it, I don't know how to do it. It's irresponsible, it's irresponsible, and the SNS will always fight it, so we, on the other hand, are showing our example, and on the case of our president, are ready to work for this country and this people 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12249	We're closing a circle of replicas and continuing the debate. Next on the list is the peoples of Parliament Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12250	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, co-worker and fellow MPs, good education is certainly an important condition for the progress and development of the entire society. In addition to family and family values, available education is a significant factor in the formation and formation of each individual. Education is a condition, actually, for a good future. Modern trends in the development of large countries are based precisely on the education and creation of human resources through the application of new technologies. In fact, developed societies tend to create a knowledge society. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has created a platform called "The State of Education". It highlights the most important objectives in education, such as: the availability of quality education regardless of the social situation, abilities, age, lifelong education, secure monitoring and evaluation of the educational process at all levels, the introduction of modern standards in the field of education management. An important principle of accessibility relating to the education of minority groups, children and youth with special development needs is to enable education to become full members of the community. It is important to invest in talented students, students, in order to recognize the gift of concrete activities, they feel protected, respected, and by investing in their progress and knowledge to prevent the outflow of young people from the country. The development of higher education should be competent compared to the modern development of science and technology. As regards higher education and obtaining accreditation, care must be taken to the quality control system and to work on continuous checks to which the educational institution adheres to the prescribed standards and what the implementation of educational programmes is. As for the proposed candidates for the National Council for Higher Education, Professor Nebojsa Zdravkovic of the Faculty of Medical Sciences of the University of Kragujevac was included. I think it is very important, not only for the town of Kragujevac, but for the whole country, to point out with pride that the Faculty of Medical Sciences in Kragujevac is precisely the third year in a row between 201 and 300th place in the region of clinical medicine. Otherwise, the Shanghai List or the academic ranking of universities in the world is informal, but a prestigious ranking system and only 2% of the world's universities have a chance to find themselves on this list. The very important question we need to deal with is how much education has suffered during the pandemic period. The development of digital technology and the dissemination of communication infrastructure in all areas has shown how important the segment of education is during online teaching. This kind of modernization of teaching allows you not to interrupt the educational process. However, what concerns is a recent report by the Serbian Psychological Society. In fact, a number of psychological studies carried out recently have shown that young people face anxiety due to the uncertainty of the pandemic crisis, isolation, the impact of various misinformations that come mainly from the Internet, further spread of anxiety, intolerance, aggression, fear. It is of national importance that the state, and above all, the Ministry of Education, address this apparent dominant problem through responsible approach to creating a strategy to help young people, various educations, stands, promoting human values, as well as providing professional support to all those working in educational institutions. According to polls, young people are most bothered by the lack of living teaching, social distance. It scares them, makes them anxiety and depressing. We need to take this seriously, because what our future will be depends primarily on what we feed our children's minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12251	Thank you. The word has been issued by the MP, the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12252	I thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear First Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, respected representatives of the Ministry of Education, at the very beginning, I didn't think we'd be talking about politics today, the election campaign, but I would like to comment on something that has been discussed for a little while, given that there has been controversy over ideology. I agree that we should leave the ideology behind for an election campaign, but here it's trying to defend something that's indefensible. What kind of ideology are we talking about? I see in particular that some opposition portals, opposition media, call themselves independent, as they call themselves the media, are very interested in whether non-discipial or principled coalitions will occur when it comes to ruling coalitions and ruling parties. Will the SPS be building some kind of unprincipled ideological coalition? Well, what kind of principled and ideological coalitions are they talking about? You mentioned the mayoral candidate a little while ago. Let's first remind ourselves how there was a candidate for the President of the Republic. Someone made a joke and said it looked like domestic violence, with no one even reported it. What kind of ideology am I talking about? Gilas belonged to some kind of socialist international. He's in a coalition with Vuk Jeremic who, call, is a right-handed man, is that right? In the entire coalition, the presidential candidate is someone who is NATO lobbyist, and the mayoral candidate, I do not dispute for years, I have never shared in people's politics by age and by whether they are female or male, but by results, and the mayoral candidate is someone who was against the DS. So what kind of ideological coalition is this? For me, it is, in the right sense, a censorship coalition, a coalition that needs political survival only on April 3rd. As for the very subject that we're talking about today, it is mentioned that we are eventually accepting everything that is being imposed on us from Brussels. It is true that Serbia's main strategic and foreign policy goal is European integration. Someone said Euro-Atlantic. No Euro-Atlantic, no one's ever said that, maybe Ponos said that, but we're not safe. European integration is one of Serbia's main strategic and foreign-political objectives, but on the way to European integration Serbia does not accept what is imposed on it. No one can underestimate Serbia and humiliate it, Serbia has shown it many times so far, but is ready to accept everything it is in the best interests of our citizens. In particular, when we talk about education, she is ready to accept everything she is in the best interests of education. Mr. Ruzic, since this is probably the last session in this session that we will talk to and talk to you as Minister of Education, perhaps, in the next term you will continue to run this resolution, but this is in this session, I want on behalf of the SPS Group to give a single assessment first and foremost, it can be subjective, that this ministry, I can interpret it as subjective, but it doesn't matter, that this ministry is in a very difficult period, the pandemic period, its work has worked responsibly, seriously and committed, as well as the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is it that was done in the previous period of time. It is not going to say at this session, but I will mention because I think it is important, the 2030 Education and Education Strategy, the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy "The Power of Knowledge", as well as a regulation that promotes the area of higher education, has been adopted. The Science Strategy allows for the continuation of the reforms launched in the area and brings measures to ensure the necessary conditions for both the dynamic development of science and the dynamic development of research, but also for the dynamic development of innovation. The Law on Student Organization has enabled the creation of different student organisations, such as the Student Conference, which will have the competence to bring attitudes into line, the coordination of student parliaments and the impact on the registration and public policies of importance to the student community and the improvement of its position. The formation of the Institute of Artificial Intelligence, which will gather and cultivate what is necessary, experts in the field of artificial intelligence through the realization of development and scientific projects, cooperate in standardisation and build educational and study programmes and the realization of postgraduate studies in the field of artificial intelligence, provide support for adapting solutions in the field of artificial intelligence, above all, for the Serbian language, in collaboration with the public sector and with the economy, which we consider to be of paramount importance and importance. Building a 28m-euro Centre of Excellence for Advanced Technology in the area of sustainable agriculture, Biosens Institute, which will promote Serbia as a central point in researching innovation across the region. Biosens as one of the leading European research institutes dedicated to modern, applied and market-oriented research in agriculture and food, will employ around 150 young scientists, an impressive result in these conditions. By investing in education infrastructure, institutions have increased capacity to reduce the waiting list, especially when we talk from preschool, or when we talk about kindergartens. There are better conditions for learning and working in schools, expanding the capacity of student and student homes, building new college buildings. So far, as far as we know, three new kindergartens have been built with a capacity of 210 seats, in Doljevac, Žitoraj, Sremski Mitrovica, while the construction of buildings began in Merošina, Kruševec and Loznica. By the end of the year, works begin on buildings in Prokuplje, Vladic's Han, Tutin, Smedereva, Šid, Novi Pazar. With the European Investment Bank through a 100m-euro project, 147 of 162 total primary and secondary schools have been reconstructed so far, equipped 60 of the planned 73 with the most modern equipment to acquire practical knowledge, and the Air Force Academy has been adapted to the system of dual studies with 800 000 euros. This year, nearly 950 million dinars were allocated 336 million for primary, 181 million for secondary education, 98 million for higher, 153 million for student homes and 182 million for dorms. So, in addition to three art schools, two completely new buildings and one arranged with 135m euros, the plan is to build a brand new building of the Faculty of Biology, Geographical and Faculty of Security, as well as the Faculty of Philology and Arts in Kragujevac by the end of 2026. So the student standard is improving. 2,620 new places have been secured. In the last year alone, the construction of dormitories began at a agricultural school in Krnjaca. The construction of agricultural homes in Pozarevec and the November resort in Palić began, which will be completed by the end of this year or early next year. By the end of the year, the student home in Sjenica ends. 48m euros have been provided to continue investment in November's homes. By 2026, the construction of a new facility in the Studen City of Novi Belgrade was planned, the completion of a November home in Nis, the restoration of a November home in Karaburma and the construction of a November campus in Novi Sad. In the next period focus is certainly on solving the necessary steps until the full implementation of the project "State's graduation". In addition to all of this, it is very important that during the pandemic all the time, according to the recommendations of the profession, as defined by the profession and how the Crisis Staff defined it, the teaching was held and that it was enabled even when it was impossible to work, interactively, and that teaching was enabled online. There's no backlog when I start from founding school to high school kids. To get back to today's agenda. Two very significant personnel decisions from the higher education sector. It is the selection of the National Council for Higher Education and the selection of the Management Board of the Accreditation Body for Higher Education. Both personnel decisions are extremely important for ensuring the quality of higher education that Serbia needs to make for a knowledge society, according to our distinguished professor, Dr. Zarko Obrodovic. To talk about Serbia's development prospects, not to talk about the role and importance of higher education, but also about overall education for this development would certainly be incomplete. Higher education is of particular importance to the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, it is part of the European and international educational, scientific and artistic space, which enables the mobility of our students and the exchange of knowledge, which is also of paramount importance. That is why I would like to remind myself of some of the facts of the education sector itself. According to statistics from the Republic Statistics Institute in 2020, in Serbia, high education covers 242 000 550 students in academic and vocational studies, or all accredited programmes to obtain higher education. At state universities, it studies 175,000 629, and in private over 29,000 students. There are over 38,000 students in vocational studies. It is a huge education system of knowledge that should be used by a faster social but above all by Serbia's economic development. It is important to say that the state, i.e. the Ministry of Education, is funding from the budget almost 58% of students. This confirms the state's interest in improving knowledge improvements, applying these skills to the creation of development policies and their implementation in almost all sectors. Innovation and the research spirit of young people are the cornerstone of the development of each society, especially today when the economy requires the application of practical knowledge and new technologies that enable a more efficient economy that creates a healthy nature, an economy that is competitive and can go abroad. Serbia has internationally recognised scientific potential. Our students, our students win international competitions and applications for research and research projects. That knowledge needs to be used here with us. In this regard, I also welcome the concept of dual education, which someone was already talking about, which was also introduced in university education. It will be useful knowledge for the development of society because a large number of companies are both domestic and foreign, they want to join this programme at both secondary and higher education levels. In higher education, the government and the Ministry of Education invest a lot, both in investment and reconstruction, in the reconstruction of existing and construction of new college buildings and their equipment, as well as in the student standard. I listed all of this because it is always necessary to highlight the role of education for the progress of society, but not of any education, but of quality, practical and useful education. It is precisely the quality of the educational process and the quality of accredited higher-school programmes that the bodies, or bodies chosen today by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are actually to choose. The National Council for Higher Education has been defined by the Law on Higher Education, and last year's amendments to the Law have been re-elected by the National Council by the National Assembly, which provides for legitimacy, greater autonomy of this body, in whose jurisdiction it is precisely ensuring development and improving the quality of higher education. On the other hand, when we talk about the Decision appointing members of the Board of Directors of the National Council of the Body, in fact the national body for accreditation and quality assurance in higher education is, therefore, an accreditation body whose responsibility is the accreditation process for the verification of higher education institutions, as well as the evaluation of studies programmes in higher education. The fact that the Governing Board of the Accreditation Body now elects the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia contributes I would also tell the public and transparency of the work of this body, which will certainly improve the competence and responsibility of this body. Therefore, the election for the National Council for Higher Education and the selection of the Management Board of the National Accreditation Body has taken a step in the process of higher education, step forward. The data is an opportunity for all relevant institutions and organisations to propose candidates they consider competent. This will ultimately help to make higher education just more quality as it actually is, hopefully, our common goal. Finally, the proposed candidates will have the full support of the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12253	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic, to point out that you know that you have very little time for parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12254	Thank you, I'll be very brief. Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, Mr. Ruzic, USS, even though he is not president here in the Assembly, we will support the proposals, because these proposals are very high-quality. One thing that's very important to me is what he said earlier, Professor. Atlagic, to achieve agriculture, there is less resources compared to science, development and technology. Maybe that's true, but we all know that without agriculture there is no life. Thanks again, I'll leave time for my colleague to say something else. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12255	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Ackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12256	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I would first like to tell you the following. Today we are talking about two important decisions in the area of higher education, and I would like you to come to your next term and say that the Department of Romaology has been established and that you are looking for our support, if we are here among the MPs. It would be my pleasure to do something about it. What we're talking about these days is one question that I'd like to talk about other than these questions that we're going to vote on at the end of the day, and it's about Marinko's bar. You see, thanks to some people, above all to Goran Markovic, I want to say this. We discussed it and we'll discuss it all, but the Marinko bar now and probably, hopefully, not anymore. What's known is that there's a large number of Roma living there, that he lived and that he'll probably live. The most common thing you don't know is how Marinko's bar got its name. She was named after Marinko Marinkovic, an Obor-Prince of Avale who had these properties, as well as several other estates that had been stationed and later named Marinko's bar, although the bar was not a swamp plot, but rather one quite regular plot to which several hundred houses moved from 1920 to 1930. Let me tell you something else, but first of all I'm telling Mr. Goran Markovic, that same Marinkova bar had a name and a part called the suburbs of Peter Mrkonjic. Who's Peter Mrkonjic? We all know who he is. Probably the ones who joked about Marinko's bar, too. Personally, I don't think you should joke on anyone's account, especially at the expense of moving the monuments to the father of the Serbian nation and the creator of the Serbian state. Why they do that, probably both the future mayor and Goran Markovic. I believe this was the part I had to say, and now I'm just going to say a few more words about that same Marinko bar, so let the gentlemen remember. In that neighborhood he became a football club and had a group of amateur actors. Speaking of amateur actors, let me tell you the fact that the parents of Goran Markovic, as you all know, are actors. In 1941 and 1942, these same actors played a show thanks to the Velibor Ionjic ministry, and my fellow Roma citizens, 200 meters away by air line, went on shooting in the apple and to many other places where these people were shot. They were only shot because they were Roma and because someone remembered that Marink's bar should be cleaned from the Roma and that the best way to get caught one night, October 18, 1941, was to shoot with a gun. In 1945, when Roma activists from the Roma Society tried to indicate that among the killers there were those to be tried, no one particularly bothered to think about it. It remained unclear whether it was done by the Quincept regime or by the German authorities. The Germans shot them, that's for sure, but I have reliable data that they've been picked up by members of the Quinspeak regime, and at this point they're laughing, like Goran Markovic on one of the shows about where to locate a monument built by a great knight, who's likely to stand in that place for hundreds of years. Let me tell you something else, dear friends. These days, the same Marinko bar and other parts of the country are being walked by some completely unknown people from some opposition parties and offer exactly to those same Roma who remember before the elections, money. They're offered to vote for them and thus support the so-called. opposition forces and parties whose members and leaders think so, such as Vladeta Jankovic and Goran Markovic. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the way you talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12257	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Amela Lukač Zoranic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12258	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable First Vice-President of the Government, as well as the Honorable State Secretary, as regards the very proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the UT and the proposal of members of the National Council for Higher Education, you have made a real effort to present in the material that you have received extraordinary experts coming from different universities from the Republic of Serbia and of course, which is very important that they are absolutely referenced to the role of members of the National Council and the UO. Also, what you notice is that both genders are represented, which is very important. What I would like to add is that the National Council for Higher Education, whose responsibility is to work on developing and improving higher education, should indeed be concerned with improving quality, not just quality control, as we could have had the opportunity to hear here earlier, but that should be a real improvement in quality. Thus, if the National Council, the Management Board and the Accreditation Commission work independently, work in accordance with the normative acts and principles guided simply by excellence, we will have the opportunity to have our universities fully open regardless of whether it is the founder of the University of State or someone else, or whether private or state universities should be pursued, absolute excellence. What I would suggest to Mr. Minister and the Ministry of Education in general is that certain projects that would be intended exclusively for universities whose founder is not a state, because in this way teachers working at that university would be allowed to participate more in projects, so that they could gain their excellence and give their students adequate education. I'm not saying that now that we're talking about teachers that should distinguish between teachers who work on state or teachers who work at private universities, given that the Law on Higher Education is explicit, therefore the Regulation on Selection in Scientific Calls is also explicit, and thus teachers get their appointments according to their references, but should certainly work on, as I said, the excellence of one and the other institutions, because each student has the right to choose where they will study, in which way they will study and be allowed to do so. That way we'll have open universities, universities that will besides that, so we cultivate this Humbolt principle of the university. We should have... attitudes and certainly that students should have the opportunity to develop critical opinions, to develop their skills and to strive towards, I can't say... There has been a lot of talk here about whether we should turn to pro-European integration or whether we should keep a system that will bring us back to socialism. We cannot talk about a system of deterrence from European integration, if we have so much technological readiness for every young man, and therefore also to monitor the overall values of European integration on which the country itself is on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12259	Thank you. I suggest that you share a small amount of time with fewer MPs, not to be forced to disrespect the Rules of Procedure and time. The time for your parliamentary group has been spent. Can I give a word to Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic? You're next on the list. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I talk about education, just to let our viewers know that we are likely to adopt the Arms and Ammunition Act today, which is significant for them, because the deadline for re-registration and the deadline for the replacement of armed papers extends by two years. In the mood of the MPs and in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which recommends that we pass the law, I believe that we will adopt the law tonight. So there is no need to create crowds and try to reregister weapons within a very short time period, because the deadline expires on March 5th, and tonight, when we adopt the law, we extend the deadline until March 5th, 2024. As far as education is concerned, investment in education gives the highest income. Education and learning is for your whole life. You should never stop learning. It's like riding a bike or rowing, as soon as you stop rowing back, and as a bike ride, as soon as you stop pedaling, you fall. So, no matter how old you are, you have to count on how many lives there are at your age, you have to study all the time, because knowledge is by saying the wealth that your owner follows everywhere. What you learn says: "The fire cannot burn, nor can water be carried away." So it's, and indeed, a real fortune, and that's why my advice to anyone who wants to try to learn is that anyone who wants to learn can find a teacher anywhere. Since today is a short time to discuss, because we're discussing amendments this afternoon, I'm going to finish my speech here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12261	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12262	Thank you, Your Honor, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Mr. Vice-President and Minister, Mr. Ruzic, dear fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are witnessing new false opposition leaders. Namely, Borko Stefanovic, ex Borislav Stefanovic, changed his name, gave up the name Borislav, continues to harass Serbian citizens, continues to lie, continues to spread the lies and continues with his opposition parliamentarians and Gilas's party to harass citizens. Namely, Borko Stefanovic, along with his comrades, lies and harass the citizens of Gilasovo-gebelsofic methods. In this case, it is the citizens of King Nikolai Street, number 72. As you know, Borko Stefanovic threw out the first lie the other day that 20 new Belgrade citizens were reported at that address. At the end when it was denied that it was a lie, he moved on and then announced to the public that more than 30 new voters were reported in the polling post outside Belgrade. First of all, Borko Stefanovic agreed that it was 37 polling stations. It's about 40 polling stations. Secondly, Borko Stefanovic lied that there were over 30 people and over 20 people, not even more than ten people, but on the salary on which the Poljakov family lives, only the Poljakov family lives. It seems to me that there are six of them and they live in their homes, living in their three private housing facilities. Third, Borko Stefanovic has been showing the house that goes out to Emperor Nikolaj for days, and it is the fourth facility of the Poljakov family, which they use as an auxiliary facility, as a warehouse space. As a fourth, the family complained to me and complained to my neighbors that every day, and often at night, Gilas's fellows and listeners once with Bork, sometimes without Bork they wait for people on the corner of Maxim Gorko, Emperor Nikolai at Cuburski Park, across the street from Duke Dragomir, harassing the family, harassing those neighbours and threatening them. As fifth, in his last public address on the subject, Borko Stefanovic threatens to arrest those people, that these people will be tried and that these people will be convicted. To be convicted of what? What are they gonna be arrested for? Do Serbian citizens, in this case, have the right to live on their private salary for decades? At this point, I have no idea who they're voting for, that family, whether they're going to the election or whether they're all six-year-olds. I guess citizens have the right to live on their salary. I guess citizens have the right to have an auxiliary facility that is their property or not their right, because maybe when Bork's activists did VDV actions, they might have refused, they might have said they weren't for the Government of Jankovic and Gilas, and immediately put the family and neighbors on the pillar of shame. First, Borko Stefanovic, Gilas and his activists don't even know that the pay, and I've examined it in detail, has an entrance from two streets, from Vukica Mitrovica, which is parallel to Emperor Nikolaj and Emperor Nikolaj. I don't know what Borko Stefanovic, ex Borislav wants to achieve with these lies. Does he want to show the citizens of Serbia and Belgrade and Vracar that they are threatening to arrest and prosecute those who are not for them, perhaps not for us, but obviously not for them? Do these lies, through the Gilasian-gebelsof method, want to show how ready they are for anything? After all, here, let me tell you politically, I don't understand it at all, because it's not any municipal elections, it's the Belgrade elections, and it doesn't matter when the Belgrade elections are where anyone is registered anywhere in Belgrade. Why would the SNS, according to Bork's words, report over 30, and first he said over 20, so he said over 10 people, so every day he's lying, tomorrow he'll say over 50, and not outside Belgrade, but he might say they're there from Luxembourg, where she's Gilas's television, or maybe somewhere in England, where that School Club Southampton is, maybe even from there, inventing voters, I don't know why he's accusing SNS? Why does he panic? In doing so, just so you know, Borko Stefanovic is a Novosadjan and I am glad that Novosadjan, I love Novi Sad very much, but I have the information that the only fictitious voter on Vrakar is Borko, ex Borislav Stefanovic. So, I live on Vrakar and I vote on Vrakar, and Borko Stefanovic, when he attacks us, let him say whether he is, behold, replacing the thesis, is he the voter in our beautiful New Sad, or is he the voter in our beautiful Vrekar's election? So it is clear, on the basis of all the facts, that Borko Stefanovic is a liar, on the orders of Gilas or has constructed everything himself. In doing so, he announces the trial and arrest of these over 30 people who do not exist. Well, the question is, is Borko Stefanovic normal? Does he just want to arrest this family who has been living on their salary or besides them for decades to arrest these more than 30 people outside Belgrade who have been reported here, and according to police data, according to the polling list and according to Vračar municipality data, they are not there at all? So it's clear what a liar it is and it's clear to the citizens of Serbia, but there's something else scaring me. I don't doubt our victory in Belgrade and Serbia, I don't doubt President Aleksandar Vukic's victory in the presidential election, but I am afraid of the way activists Djilas and Borko Stefanovic operate. It scares me that they're waiting for people. It scares me that the women who live on that salary are waiting for them at night and their activists to question where you live, what your name is. They're legitimizing them - give me your ID. What are these methods? They're harassing the citizens. These citizens and neighbors can't go to the store to not jump two Gilas activists with cameras and say, "Who are you?" Give me your ID card. Are Gilas and Bork's activists authorized officials? What's this about? To all of this, do they want that family living on that salary to be expelled because a man threatens to arrest them by trial and judgment? Imagine their policy -- who isn't for us, publicly show him the house, publicly show him who lives in that house, asks for the arrest of these people, asks for a public trial, a media lynching of that family, and ultimately a conviction. There it is, my fellow citizens, the policies of Borko Stefanovic and Dragan Gilas. They do it every day. I'm just waiting for them to find another family in Vracar, Belgrade, Novi Sad or somewhere in Serbia, to harass them in the same way. It's been two months before the election, and less than two months, so I hope they don't have enough time to harass citizens like this in Serbia. I'm just asking them not to threaten the citizens, and I'm asking the state institutions to respond, protect the family. We don't know who this family votes for, but every family in Serbia deserves protection. Then, to everything that my colleague Adam Šukalo spoke of yesterday, that policy of Vladite Jankovic, Dragan Djilas, Borko Stefanovic, Marinika Tepic, Dragan Šolak, supports from Germany Vladik Grigoria, Vladika diseldorfski, if I am not mistaken, the former Vladika Zahum-Herzegovic, who calls on Hercegovci, Belgrade and Serbian citizens to vote against the government. Who's ordering that? This is what the tycoon amongst the bishops or bishops among the tycoons orders. Who is supported by a tycoon among the bishops and bishops among the tycoons? He supports Zdravko Ponoša, who is a tycoon among the generals and generals among the tycoons. All of this carries out their tasks as Borko Stefanovic. Speaking of Vračar, if Borko Stefanovic is so concerned about Vračar's infrastructure, let him deal with Metohijski Street and these investments by Zdravko Ponoša and his wife. Well, here, we had today and yesterday the reaction of the congratulatory generals, congratulatory officers, seems to me to be the reaction of General Vladimir Lazarevic, the former commander of the third army, who said he didn't know how someone like Ponoš could've made and bought two apartments on Vrekar and, I think, three or four garages. So, four garages and two apartments! That's worth a couple hundred thousand euros, about half a million euros. Where'd he get the money? From the general's salary when he was also from the military pension? Well, he was challenged by his generals and how he was a general and how he destroyed the army. Now, here's the question of the origin of the property. So today I listed this only to share with the citizens of Serbia information about who they are and what they are, what they are doing, what they plan to do, how they were destroying and how they plan to destroy not only Serbia, not just the military, but not just to destroy monuments and move Stefan Nemanja, but also how they harass families that are against them. It is the policy of Đilas, Ponos, Marinika Tepic, Borko Stefanovic and their parliamentarians. That's what citizens clearly need to know. How does Vladeta Jankovic think she reacts when it comes to Belgrade's interest? Well, he said he didn't care about that. Sam said it wasn't for that. Sam said he wasn't ready. I'm taking you down, I'm not going to tear down the monument. Watch what they do. To them is politics - destroying, destroying, destroying, moving, harassing, threatening, arresting, and illegally judging. It's their policy. Then everything that is earned to move across, to buy English prime minister leagues or to set up and register TV and websites in Luxembourg. So, from Serbia, he kidnaps and invests over. It's their policy. But fortunately, Serbian citizens know the truth and we as people's tribunals will always speak this truth and always say what is true, always say what is a lie, always criticize what is bad and against the interests of Serbian citizens, and always praise what is good, always praise what is good and everything you have done and about the education sector and about other areas. All is well done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all is well done by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, all is well done by our people who run the local self-government well and all that is done in the interests of Serbian citizens, and our policy leads and implements in the best possible way our Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic. I hope and expect a convincing victory in the April 3rd elections, in order to continue to lead this policy of truth and fight for Serbia's future, for the future of Serbia led by our President, Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12263	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12264	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, what my colleague Mrdic was saying just now has really shaken me. I can't believe that in the 21st century someone from the political option that came out of here, who has 1 or 0.1% harassing citizens. That's inadmissible. You need to go see these people and see what's really going on. It's a shame. We brought the Code of Conduct to this high house. What about them? Well, they do whatever they want. We've had all kinds of insults here, from being sandwichers, idiots, all kinds of, illiterate, half-written, toothless. Well, of course people are toothless because they stole everything alive until that year 2012. We've given them everything to get into parliament, into this high house. This is where we have to discuss, this is where the laws need to be corrected. I would very much like to have 10, 15 options here, to discuss, to debate, to correct the laws through amendments, not to fight. If we hadn't jumped to help Mr. Risticevic, they would have killed him. Mr. Martin suffered stress, beat him, beat the lady, didn't beat him, the man was strong, but they threw a mouse at him, hurt his nose. Mrs. President, the ex-wife, also with the insolences. They spit at us, pinched us. As long as, what, how? I know there's anxiety, they don't have citizens' support. Citizens simply want results, so I ask them nicely, culturally, nicely to make programs, so people can see what they're offering. We have programs, we have results, we have, yesterday I talked about it, miles of built roads. People, in their time, built 30 kilometers of roads in 12 years, we're 400 kilometers in 10 years. Here, now we're 12. In a projection of 1,300km of roads. We're building fast tracks. I'm going to talk about education today, but I can't believe someone's harassing themselves in the 21st century. I heard the story that if they win, they'll never win. No one who's aggressive can win. Someone who's peaceful, who's well-trained, who's got a program, who talks to people in a nice way. You cannot intercept people and threaten them that we will all have connections and write on that link “I stole. ” No, I've never stolen in my life, never in my life, and I have no idea what stealing is. Neither do I, nor my colleagues. I'm supposed to be like them now. Well, yeah, the Anti-Corruption Agency found 65 bills in 50 and some countries and 69m euros. They found, I didn't say, 619 million euros. So where did man get 619 million euros? From where? Our salary knows what it is, it's on every website. Where did 619 million, plus that 69, plus 35 apartments, plus jeeps, plus threats to cops and others? There's no need for that. Let's be cultural, let's be nice, it's not hard to be nice. The hardest thing in life is to be a good man. Let's be good people and help each other. No, we have to beat someone here. I've never done that in my life. We can argue and it's the only way to communicate in this high house. What we have experienced has not happened again. When we talk about education, education is part of culture, and culture is the way of life. You need to be educated, because a man just has the width, has the possibility, isn't hard to be nice. I loved what Mr. Professor Atlagic said – education, and where is this education? Someone can be a top intellectual and be rude, be aggressive, make horror here in parliament, as it happened. So that's not the point. The point is to be both education and education. As far as education is concerned, the government of the Republic of Serbia is indeed taking this whole story to education. Education comes first, and that's really good. There was talk of our young people leaving the country. Well, of course they're leaving. They fired 400,000 people, shut down 650 companies. So where do these young people work? They honor us that it's our fault. Well, that's not true, and everybody knows it, so they know it. Youth slowly returns. We hire 100 of our best doctors every year, we hire thousands of nurses and doctors. As far as education is concerned, we have an extraordinary fit, potential, in all spheres, by professors, doctors of science, so we go to doctors, teachers in schools. People, our people are wherever they go, highly respected, and we all know it. They make extraordinary results everywhere. That's the way it is in all branches, that's how it is in sports. Look at Djokovic, very well brought up, he made an impression on all people, worldly, he didn't hurt anyone, he felt silent, he came back. Look at our president, who's he insulted, Mr. Man? He's making connections between east and west, bringing in businessmen, hiring people, bringing back people. The budget is set aside 500m euros for young people, to return to this beautiful Serbia, and to return, especially after the covid. We built four scientific and technological parks, one in Belgrade, one in Nis, one in Novi Sad, one in Chačka, we'll make more. There's also Petnica, as a research centre, we're building a Data Center, we built it in Kragujevac, the other day it was on TV, four times bigger than it was in Belgrade, it looks fantastic, by all world standards, not European. That's how it works. That's how you win parliament. I was terribly sorry, in 2011, the census was 3%, and when we needed to come to power, they rose to 5%. We've put them down to 3%. I really want there to be 10 policy options here. Indeed, to be one constructive, beautiful debate, correct, without swearing, swearing, guitar, spit and everything else. It's just not like this tall home. Knowledge is power. And that's really how it is. There is no development of state and society without greater knowledge and better application of acquired knowledge. Education and science are at the top of the country's priorities, and that's something that really needs to be respected. Over the next five years, an additional 135m euros will be invested in the reconstruction and construction of the university, the state will continue to invest in the standard of employment in education, will be an increase in wages, which is remarkable, because these people are really trying to educate our children. Education in every society is the most important and complex process and system, it is characterized by speciality and dynamicity. Knowledge is a driver of development in all areas, starting with the economy, through health care, to defence, culture, sport, religion, politics, and therefore education permeates all aspects of society. The history of the Serbian people shows that we have always had individuals who were recognized worldwide, primarily Nikola Tesla, then Milankovic, Mileva Maric, Ivo Andric, Ducic, by athletes Djokovic, thousands and thousands of people I can count, but for that I need time, I already talked about it once. Our young scientists are everywhere in the world to admit it. Wherever they deal and show results, they are the best – mathematics, chemistry, biology, wherever. That, people, should be respected. Now, that's why this government and Mr. Vucic, because they've separated five times more money than they did in 2017. The awards won by our students in international competitions and the works of our research activities, our professors at foreign universities show that the wider international community recognizes the ages of our education. That's what everyone who went to the world with our diplomats is testifying to and showed outstanding success. About 176,955 teachers, teachers and teachers work in Serbia today. About 1,050,000 of our children go to primary and secondary schools, while 285,000 of them study. I said that you should, and there will be, an increase in education, because it is really, besides family, another kind of education. Our children are also recognizable everywhere in the world thanks to schooling. What's more important is that every year investment in the education system is increasing. Here, now it's at 252 billion dinars, which is 43% higher than 2017. What else is there to say? Maybe something about dual education, which is extremely important. Remember when we started talking about how we had incredible criticism from the opposition, as they said, that we were slowly but surely moving, moving, which is not true. Dual education is very valuable. We don't have carpenters or plumbers today. I'm sure someone who deals with plumbers will have a few years' pay more than the manager, than we do here, because they're not there, they're just gone. Belgrade imports workers on water. Dual education brings not only safe work, but also responsibility and seriousness, which is very important. Young people are alone, and they can make their own families, because they have something to live on. Serbia today has a problem with carpenters, welders, welders. Unfortunately, construction sites with 65,000 currently operating in Serbia are mostly regional craftsmen. We don't have a craftsman, we're going to have to bring these people on the side, and that's why we signed that little or "Mini Schengen" between the Republic of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania, because we're going to have four types of freedom, which means capital, goods, people and services, recognition of qualifications, and, well, people are going to be able to come here with a personal map, we're going to be able to go there, which is of great importance. Dual education accounts for 10% of the total secondary vocational education, the dual profile is 16% of the total number of profiles, while 18% of schools have dual profiles in their offer. The number of participants or students of schools and companies, as well as dual profiles from year to year, is now ten times higher than the beginning, which is good. Thus, in 2014 and 2015, there were 400 of them, and in 2018 and 2019 there were 4,500, and today this figure is significantly higher. Gentlemen, there's still a lot to talk about. Education and culture are extremely broad topics. I can only say that in 2012, if you remember the culture was completely sealed, nothing alive worked. It was a delegation to me, it doesn't matter which country, they asked me to show it to the National Museum in 2014. I said it was being renovated, unfortunately it was closed, the Museum of Contemporary Art, unfortunately it was closed, it was all closed, the temple of St. Sava was working, it was not done by anyone but by President Vukic. We can proudly say he finished it. Smederev Fortress incomplete. Done, who? The government, Mr. Vukic, president of our Republic, the Ram Fortress, which has been completely revitalised, which has begun to deal with tourism. These people who live there have blossomed. So culture is the way of life. Culture needs to be invested. As for these candidates, I will vote for them, of course, as well as all my colleagues. Another appeal to the opposition. Be cultural, be nice, we'll pay you back in the most beautiful way possible. We'll treat you as we've treated you with respect. We're colleagues, we need to be collegiate. Forget the violence. Violence is deadly to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12265	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12266	I would like to thank the President, dear Minister Ruzic. I didn't want to talk much about candidates. Anyway, the support will come from our side, but I didn't plan on speaking today after I spoke yesterday. I don't get to talk a lot, see if I can get back to you once a week, say everything that's important and important on the subject and what's up to now. But first of all, I applied for the discussion, offered by my colleague, Ugljesa Grdić, who referred to what we were saying yesterday, as we announced here in parliament. What is now a favorite topic, call the opposition quasi in the Republic of Serbia. We saw yesterday that they made a series of shows about so-called. imports of safe votes from Republika Srpska to vote for general elections in Serbia on 3 April. Yesterday, in about six, seven minutes, I explained in detail how wrong this is, first of all, for them, but I would not advise politically, because they have provided so much incorrect information about all of this, that I would be ashamed to be involved in politics at all, to present such and flat-rate estimates, false data, and at all to catch up with some topic that can't in any way affect the course of the election, at any level, whether it's presidential elections, whether it's parliamentary or any local elections. I will prove that theory once again, this time, since I see Dragan Gilas announcing tonight a large marketing mag, some video material, as safe voices from Republika Srpska are being imported. Now I see that this is the story that Mrdić was saying, that he was harassing some families at Vračar, because, of course, they're defending Vračar with their hands and feet, because there's a lot of their property, a lot of their interests, and it's particularly interesting Vračar for that reason, because they're afraid that, as well as who knows which way, they're going to lose both Vračar and Stari Grad and Savki Venac, etc. However, I would talk about another topic, but first of all, to mathematically demystify that kind of story once again, to confirm once again that every time before the general elections, since this opposition, since this authority in the Republic of Serbia, has been talking about the same subject. Last time, Google, here are the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Google, and see how many of these portals like "directly" have written so far. Here, you have one information that in Ugljevik and Loparam thousands of voters were registered to vote in the general elections in the Republic of Serbia last time, or for 3,000 dinars to vote here. Once again to demystify that lie of theirs and completely bring it down, say that in the past general elections from BiH from the embassy and the entire consular network, you can open a polling station wherever there are 1,000 registered voters, last time a little more than 4,000 voters voted. If the 4,000 voters that have been identified are correct, the majority according to the SNS list can affect the course of the presidential elections, parliamentary or proportional when you have 4,000 votes and the local community on all local communities, then I really don't understand what we're talking about here at all. But it's easy to degrade it politically and disenfranchise, this attack of theirs, but I've been thinking a little bit since yesterday until today, and I can see it's not a topic at all. Here the topic is something completely different, they and this time are aware that nothing will help them, because they have nothing to look for in the electoral body coming from Republika Srpska, because it voted over 90% for the SNS list because they support Alexander Vukic's policy, because countless families in the previous period, we line up until the 1990s and after the 1990s bought properties, apartments, large, small, as anyone could in Belgrade and Novi Sad, primarily. Their children come here, they school, they're satisfied with the education system, they stay to work here. They are pleased with the way the Republic of Serbia is helping Republika Srpska, in an infrastructure plan in each other. They are pleased that every municipality in Republika Srpska is supported and wants those who have exercised the right to dual citizenship to reside here in Serbia, or have applied for a vote, say at a consulate in Banja Luka, to support it. I don't see what's going on in that. And, of course, there's nothing controversial either, but it is something controversial else, because you have to do a comparatively how those in relation to the issue of Serbs from the region, here, Serbs from Republika Srpska, applied when they were in power. By 2012 it was a mental noun to obtain the dual citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if you are a Serb from Republika Srpska. It was a tax that was about 200 euros, and an administrative procedure which is still extremely complicated today, since it has practically to reach the opportunity to vote, four administrative procedures. Exactly, four administrative procedures to carry out and to go through the DKP network, to get the control of the Ministry of the Interior, BIA, and then only when you got citizenship to apply for a ID card. You've got real estate to sign up for. The police come out, see if you live here and then you get a personal document, and only when you get a personal document, then you have to go to the community of origin to sign up for the voter list, which is another administrative procedure, no matter how fast it is. I've been through all of this myself and I haven't called anyone, and I have to tell you that my procedure lasted about three years. I don't see what's controversial about that kind of story, but the issue is something else, which is that it's one national issue. They don't mind, I was talking yesterday about what 99% of Croatians from BiH have Croatian housekeepers, has the right to vote, has a diaspora electoral unit, which four Croats from Herzegovina are in the Croatian Parliament, guaranteed there, which represents these interests. That's not at all controversial, but it's controversial, that political set that's trying to bring back the day of power. They want the alarms, they send a message to a foreign factor here, as in Serbia, irregularities occur, so now, as they say these days, that hundreds of thousands of voters from Republika Srpska will come here to change their voting will in Serbia. Or as they say, the Bosnians will come here and create us that kind of story. Shame on them. Let him read Dragan Gilas, now let him go to his Twitter account of what they wrote to him, the name and last name of the people of Republika Srpska, some I know, some I don't know, but let him be ashamed to say that someone here in Serbia should import Serbs into Serbia to vote. May he be ashamed of all those who represent politics because they share the Serbian people again and on this issue. He doesn't mind, of course, this issue in Croatia, he would probably advocate that kind of story that Croats from BiH can come to Serbia to vote because I assume they would vote for Ponos, Marinika Tepic and so on. It is their focus group, they know they have nothing to look for here because you cannot go to a national issuing policy in front of a electoral body that is highly nationally profiled and whose relationship with the queen is one, not one, but most important on the list of priorities in any research, any Serb to ask in Republika Srpska, and Serbia, but above all, I am talking about Serbs from Republika Srpska. What's the matter? It's disputed to send that picture, it's disputed that this kind of story here is now spinning again as some topic, and I see yesterday several shows were organized about it, that they're chasing some people around the Sorceress, a complete nonsense. Yesterday I was talking about what they said last time that 2,000 people from Lopar were reported. It's a disaster. Shame on you because of the way you say that misinformation and that you're trying to share our people. No, not even 10% of Serbs from Republika Srpska still have the right to double citizenship. What's the matter? Are you afraid of your own people? Or are you afraid that they have a political commitment to what makes the political scene in the Republic of Serbia? The fact that you do not have any agenda that implies what you will do with the threat of Republika Srpska and everything else that the Republika Srpska is experiencing, it is not a topic to you at all, it does not say in any of your programs. On the other hand, your godmothers, partners, tycoons, come to Republika Srpska and do all sorts of things, like this young Djordjevic, who goes, goes wherever he can, rebelles the people and tells lies about President Vukic. There are posters here in downtown Belgrade, etc. What's with the lies? Who's doing something against Republika Srpska? Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, SNS is a pillar of stability, both the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and its independent institutions and those in the joint institutions of BiH and we have never threatened anyone. During the pandemic we gave hands and people of the Federation, everyone could come here to vaccinate, it was helped by many municipalities, we donated respirators, say, to the Gorazdin Canton, everyone from the Federation came here to send such a bad picture now. What's the matter? What's the answer to your question? What should all Republika Srpska Serbs say about this message by Dragan Gilas? Are they welcome to Serbia? Is that a message? Gentlemen, if they have exercised the right to dual citizenship, and I have explained to you the details of how complicated this is, you have no right to deny them the right to vote, both actively and passively. Who are you to say that's controversial? Or, more specifically, why were you and today against exercising the right for Serbs from the region, in this case from Republika Srpska, from BiH, to exercise the right to dual citizenship which is guaranteed as a possibility and as a right by which other people, in this case Croatian, constitutional in BiH, are fully established? What's the problem? You have a big problem in that sense that you can't answer that, and this comes to you as a consequence, because you know how these people are going to vote, you know they don't trust you, and that's why you're scared. It should be demystified, as Mr. Mr. Mrdic said yesterday, that it's really scary and really ugly for someone from the church circles, even if it's a bishop, a congratulatory bishop, so it's not right for you to get involved in any political games here, I'm talking about Bishop Gregory, it's not right that you're glorifying any candidate. It's not right, as I said yesterday, that you say you like it very much, that you are now running, because this Jankovic Vladata has a great program, and he only introduced it the day before yesterday. The interview was done five days ago, so it's impossible that he knows what his program is when he published it two days ago, which he barely put into five sentences. I understand, the man's older, he's out of the loop a little bit. But to come out of the bishop of the Serbian Orthodox Church, not listening to the patriarch, not to our Synod, and to say - I am in pain all the wounds of Belgrade, perhaps the rescue in Vladita Jankovic is wrong. Christian, bishop, salvation is only in Christ. If we are Christians, I am a Christian, our bishop is a Christian Orthodox, what kind of salvation in Vladeta Jankovic or anyone? Don't share our people through the church, through the borders, through the ancient story. We should have a single national policy, stick together and always be there for each other when it is difficult, but also policies that are correct, to confirm when votes are being voted, and I am fully convinced that this policy represented by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS will receive not only majority support in Serbia, but everywhere in the region, even though it is symbolic in terms of these several thousand votes that I expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12267	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12268	The respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the SNS, education is the key to the success and key to the progress of the entire society. This all the time since the takeover of power in 2012, we have shown this in the works, but I have to remind the citizens of the period until 2012, the period of power of the yellow tycoon company, the period of power of the yellow tycoon and the robbers, as well as the weeks of Dragan Gilas. I must point out, however, that the yellow tycoon government has destroyed all systems and all segments of one society, including the education system. One of the evidence, i.e. the argument that everything is ruined, is the data on the unemployment rate by 2012, which was 26%, but what I also have to point out is that in the period from 2008 to 2012, during the time of the government of the yellow national pair robber, Dragan Gilas, the unemployment rate rose by a full 10%. So, the question of the people who were finishing schools and the question of their employment, their existence, the yellow tycoon government was absolutely not interested. Young people went away, went to school, finished colleges, but during their massacre, and businesses and at all the Republic of Serbia, there was a very pronounced brain drain, or people came to college diplomas, to education and knowledge, where they went to school, but they went to some other countries to apply their knowledge there. What is the difference between them and us, and what shows is that in the period 2015 to 2019, 90 000 young people were returned to Serbia and between 24 and 29 years of age, people who went abroad to acquire the highest knowledge and education, but also people who wanted and returned to the country of Serbia, to help here with their knowledge, to make Serbia a more successful country and to continue to develop Serbia. What I must also point out is that only by taking over the responsibility and power of the SNS, first in 2013, through pilot projects in collaboration with the German organisation GIZ, with Austrian and Swiss organisations, began piloting dual education and then these machine brains, painted in character and the Sunday of Dragan Gilas, spoke of Alexander Vukic, that he, in fact, through dual education, wanted to train some cheap workforce and that he did not aim to improve education. Of course, these machine brains in the image and the Sundays of Dragan Gilas, they don't understand the needs of citizens, they don't understand the needs of education, for the sake of jobs, he only understands the filling of his own pocket, because if he didn't, he wouldn't be richer at the time of his government by 619m euros. Of course, dual education, and the goal of dual education has just been to connect theory and practice has produced very great and good, positive results. According to research by those students who have completed dual education, otherwise, I must point out, dual education by law in the Republic of Serbia was introduced in 2017, 80% of those students who have been through a dual education programme have been employed precisely in companies where they have had this practical teaching. So, students, through the acquisition of theoretical knowledge, acquire both practical knowledge and skills to be more responsible tomorrow, to be more serious tomorrow, to access one team work at the moment they get hired. Of course, dual education in our country has also been introduced to higher education institutions. I must point out that President Aleksandar Vukic has brought more than 300 companies to Serbia. When they asked some of these companies why their choice was to invest precisely in the Republic of Serbia, the response of these companies was precisely in well-trained work force and that workers here in Serbia who, besides being well-trained, also had knowledge of foreign, or English language. So, Serbia has also made progress through the dual education model. Today, in over 150 schools, we have 54 different profiles for which our young people are educated. Today unemployment is a single digit. I must point out that the state and how it takes care of education, both in that sense and in terms of infrastructure. In the last five years, the state has invested 200m euros in the reconstruction of infrastructure facilities, because the yellow, thiefish, tycoon company in Dragan Đilas, Vuk Jeremic, Marinika Tepic, Borko Stefanovic did not care whether these students are sitting in cold classrooms, whether those schools are sneezing, whether they have isolation, whether those schools have adequate toilets, whether they have drinking water, whether they have windows. In contrast, this government, President Aleksandar Vukic, is interested in all of this and are doing all of that, which shows investments in 180 schools. This, in practice, means that there is no local self - administration in which there has been no adaptation, renovation or construction of completely new schools. I have a school in Sjenica that the state invests 10.5m euros in. The school she was sneezing, a school that was, almost completely insecure for children, but when it's built, it's going to be a 21st century school. Also, I have to highlight the school in Nova Varosha, which was also built according to the world's highest standards. It's a school where the government, of course, invested its resources, attended by 500 students, modern, modern cabinets and pool schools. I'm from the Pryboy Community. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also invested huge funds in adaptation and primary and secondary schools. These are modern schools today. The government also helped open an industrial zone to which foreign employers came, both foreign and domestic. Within the industrial zone there is a High Technical School. That school is training engineers, it's just doing the needs of companies that work in the industrial zone. So, today people are educated to get a job after that, to stay in this country, to create their own family, to be satisfied, to contribute to further progress and development of our country, not to go into the world and abroad. I must also point out that since 2012 neither segment, in fact, nor in the field of health, nor in the field of science, nor in the area of education, we have been measurable on European or international lists. I must point out that Serbia has become a full member of CERN. It's a European nuclear research organisation. Also, I have to point out the country's huge investment in science and technology parks. There are four in Serbia where there is a great chance for young people to work, explore, stay in this country and be an engine and a driver for development. This year, April 3rd, there will be elections. I call on citizens to vote for peace policy, for stability policy, for future policy, for Alexander Vukic's policy, for our sakes, for our children's sake, because Alexander Vukic's policy has no alternative. Everything else is going into the abyss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12269	Thank you. The last speaker on the list is MP Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12270	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are asking many questions today, and they are most important -- why is there so much panic among the tycoons and the mafia in recent months? Because it's over for them. The end is seen on April 3rd in the election. It is an opportunity for Serbian citizens to go to a large number of elections and to support the Serbian Progressive Party's list, Aleksandr Vukic, as president of the Republic, to finally put an end to the tycoons, the mafia and their politics and the lives of Serbian citizens. It is also an opportunity to defend Serbia and everything we have achieved since 2012 until today, to defend jobs, to defend factories, to defend people, as counterpart Dr. Ugljesa Mrdic said, to defend our Republic of Serbia, as Adam Šukalo said, to defend everything that is Serbian, everything that is healthy and everything that is normal in this country. If we miss that chance now, we won't have another 10, 15, 20 years of that chance, and then the question is whether or not this country will remain anything if Dragan Djilas, Ponos, Jeremic, Tadic and the other thieves come to power in this country and continue to rob it just like that, and perhaps faster and stronger than they did by 2012. That's enough pressure on the citizens. No more harassing people, coming to the thresholds of all those who say - I'm not for you because you stole this Belgrade until 2014, 2015, and everything you've arrived you've stolen in Belgrade, we're not going to see you on TV or on our doorsteps, we're not going to steal your flyers, we're not going to watch your people anymore, we're not going to take your teams, we're not going to see your fake experts, your fake experts, everything you're offering us to steal again. We want to have the responsibility of both the local and the Republic and the responsible president of the Republic as Alexander Vucic. That is why we should defend both Vračar and Old Town and every municipality in Belgrade and Serbia, because every man is equal to us. All our citizens are the same, no matter who they vote for in this country. That's why we've been trying to get the factories into those municipalities that no one's invested in for decades, to get investors where no one ever wanted to invest, where Gilasu and his bastards were going to go. That's why we care about the people of Borca, Marinko's bar and all other places in Serbia, all those where they disgust Dragan Gilas, Vladita Jankovic and Jeremic, where they never set foot with their bow shoes, where they don't know how those people were when they were stolen for 12 years, from 2000 to 2012, where people who escaped from Krajina, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, live where those people who had to go because of the Cypriot terrorists from Kosovo live. They don't go to these people, they don't know how these people live. They don't care about their lives. They're only interested in their tycoon life, just their garages, their apartments around Vrakar and Old Town. Those who talk about anything every day about the Wizard and the Old City. And do you know why? Because there's the most expensive square. Where it's most expensive, you'll see Gilas. Where the most expensive store is, that's where Gilas and his tycoons will go. They don't know where the market is, they don't know how to talk to the peasants, they don't know how they live. They don't care about schools. What school did they renovate? What school did the Gilassovites build? What kindergarten did they make? They just stayed in debt. Well, this Belgrade was in charge of 1,200,000. In this country, you had over 25% unemployment, and today it's 10%, with all the problems we have during this pandemic that hit the entire planet. Now someone would come back and say, "We'll take down Stefan Nemanja and all the monuments you've made." And Peter Moller on Moller Street, who's going to be set up, we're going to tear it all down. We'll cut it all up. All the facades you've arranged in Karajordje's street, everything you've done in "Belgrade on the Water" we'd tear it all down, and we'd bring again the snakes and wrecks of ships and everything that's ever been anywhere people shouldn't have set foot in. Today, what has been the worst decades, today is the best location and the best place to live, I would say, perhaps in this part of Europe, and that is why I call on Serbian citizens once again to go to the polls on April 3rd because it suits Serbia. That doesn't match Gilas. The more citizens come out, because most citizens live much better today than in 2012, the result for the tycoons and the mafia will be more devastating and more difficult and worse than they can imagine, and for Serbia, this will be the best result, as I expect on April 3rd in the first round of the victory of Aleksandar Vukic and the victory of the Serbian Progressive Party list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12271	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue our work at 15.00 hours with a debate on amendments to election laws. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we move on to a debate in detail on election laws. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Marija Obradović, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister Maja Popovic, Minister of Justice Maja Macužić Puzic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Saša Stevanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Vladimir Vinš, Deputy Minister of Justice Milan Culjkovic, Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Vesna Jevtic of the Ministry of Finance. We welcome Minister Obradovic and his associates. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Election of the President of the Republic You have received an amendment submitted by MP Vladan Glisic to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vladan Glisic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Nebojsha the Bakarite.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12273	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens, means, and these accepted amendments, I welcome the government's decision to accept the five amendments of Mr Glisic, and that is exactly what I was saying in favor of what I was saying, which I will briefly repeat, about the broadness and fairness of the SNS, which is so broad-minded as to accept these amendments as well. So, let's say, one of them concerns the order of presidential candidates on the list or how many voters can support a particular list. So, let me just say that, all in all, looking at these amendments that have been adopted and 36 legal changes without sublegal changes and the demands of the adopted opposition, therefore, this testifies to this very broadness of the SNS. Otherwise, just to remind you, in the time of the multi-party, which I have remembered since 1990, because since then I have been involved in politics, no government has offered the opposition such attractive electoral conditions, as the people would say – as from the milk bird. This testifies to the broadness of President Alexander Vukic. I'd just like to share with you a few specific new findings, which are of an exceptional impact on the set of these laws and on the election issue at all. I'll be brief. I would like to share with you one fact that one candidate for mayor, Gilas' candidate, who now supports him, speaks best of him, I was a witness when this candidate, it's about Mr. Uncle Vlajk, Vladiti Jankovic, when he spit on Dragan Gilas and voted for his shift at the DSS presidency. As a member of the DSS presidency from 2012 to 2014, I remember very well that Mr Jankovic criticised Mr Gilas during 2012, 2013 and 2014, when he returned from the ambassadorial post in the Vatican, and repeatedly at the session of the presidency, Mr Jankovic called Gilas's authority a protect and robbery power, and thus also Dragan Gilas. We're actually going. Vladeta Jankovic participated in the preparation of Mr Gilas' shift from the mayor's seat at the DSS presidency session in September 2013. We were both present at that session. At that time, Mr. Jankovic spoke about the robbery authorities in Belgrade, and we both voted that the DSS participated in Mr. Gilas' shift and Mr. Gilas was on 24 September 2013, with SNS, DSS, SPS and PUPS votes and replaced. Vladeta Jankovic, just to remind you, otherwise he boasted in the media about this fact. On February 4, 2014, he boasted that he voted in favour of Gilas' shift at the DSS presidency and said, quote him - we decided that Gilas's furniture would fall in Belgrade. So he called Gilasa a garrison at the time. And today Vladeta Jankovic is part of that furniture. It's about shameless inconsistency and hypocrisy. It is the fatal salt of the death of Vladite Jankovic number one. Number two. Today is an MP, I think he was uninformed in this regard, said Mr. Jankovic had nothing to do with the economy. There is. Mr. Jankovic is the person who brought "Rio Tinto". I know that for a fact. What are the facts that contribute to this? So, if you're looking for an individual who brought in "Rio Tinto", I'm telling you right now, that's Vladeta Jankovic. He was an ambassador to the UK from 2001 to 2004. Rio Tinta headquarters is in London. "Rio Tinto", as he wanted to and achieved his work in Serbia, had to go through the embassy. It was in the description of the ambassador's job to receive "Rio Tinto" and to forward it to Serbia. That's what happened. Rio Tinto then founded his daughter's company in 2000. "Rio Sava Explosivesn" in 2001, and after Ambassador Jankovic was helped by Djindjic's then government. But it's not the end. Mr Jankovic was also a foreign policy adviser for Prime Minister Kostunica from 2004 to 2008, so even then, since he brought "Rio Tinto" as ambassador, he continued to push "Rio Tinto" until 2008 and in that period from 2001 to 2008, he concluded with "Rio Tinto" a series, suspected, of corrupt contracts. Today Vladeta Jankovic tells the lie about her relationships with "Rio Tint" and he says, for example, on 7 January 2022 on TV N1, the agency "Beta", the newspaper "Today", Gilasovski TV, quote Vladeta Jankovic, he says -- I was a consultant in the cabinet in 2004 and 2005, not only that, but by 2008, but come on, and I don't know about any agreement with Rio Tint, I've never seen that. Vladeta Jankovic says it's false news. Of course, it turns out that the news of who brought "Rio Tinto" is not fake, but false is told by Mr Jankovic. And today is Mr. Jankovic's programme, Gilas and the SAA, which they presented at a press conference the other day, the "Rio Tinta" banishment brought just by the mayoral candidate in Serbia, Vladeta Jankovic. So, shameless inconsistency, shameless hypocrisy and the fatal salt of the death of Vladite Jankovic. The last fact, Mr. Jankovic has been a representative against lies about genocide for decades. Today Mr. Jankovic accepts a lie about genocide. On February 20th 2007, as a foreign policy adviser to Prime Minister Kostunica, Vladeta Jankovic praised the decision, on the International Court of Justice's ruling in The Hague, which found that Serbia did not commit genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and correctly claimed that Serbia did not commit genocide. That's what he said in 2007. That's when media like Radio Free Europe reported it, where you have an even wider quote of what Mr. Jankovic said. And not to quote now, I mostly said the essence of Mr. Jankovic's words. Today, Mr. Jankovic, for a decade, means for two decades he represented this attitude that I expressed, from the other day when he accepted Gilas's candidacy, represents the position of Marinika and Gilas, and is treading on everything he has spoken and done in the past decades, and accepts the position of Marinikin. So they both blame Serbia and the Serbian people for committing genocide. I think it's sad that Mr. Vladeta Jankovic has fallen for being Gilas' puppet and blaming his people for a genocide that has not been committed. This is the third example of shameless inconsistency and superior hypocrisy and the third example of the fatal salt of the death of Vladite Jankovic. Last one and I'll be done soon. Will the Gilas coalition and the SP party praise these views of Vladite Jankovic in the earlier period? Will Vladeta Jankovic boast about what he once said and did and what he has now accepted as his views and programme, which is quite the opposite of what he did for two decades? So he mentioned Gilas' furniture. Look out, Gilas's furniture fell in 2013 with the help of Vladite Jankovic. Gilas's furniture fell in 2018. Gilas's furniture will fall with everything Jankovic for the third time, April 3rd, 2022. And just for a little while, because that's new information from the catastrophe. NATO and Croatia's candidate for Serbian President Zdravko, he was ashamed of himself, Ponos must explain the origin of his property in the well-known pastures that are popular among the so-called. The yellow ones. You know who I mean. It has been established these days, just in the catastrus that Zdravko Ponos owns two apartments and four garages on Metohijska Street and Chernisevski Street and that he was co-owner i.e. The co-investor of one of these buildings and all of this is worth the least, be careful, two apartments and four garages, at least half a million euros. So, where, shame on him, are they carrying half a million euros? Did Gilas give him that money? I mean, watch out, how, shame on him, proudly became the co-investor of a building? By the way, when I mentioned Chernisevski, and I believe the gentleman knows about him, he was ashamed of himself, Ponos, the most famous and important work of Nikola Chernisevski is that famous novel "What to Do". So, Ponoš, asking himself the question – what to do, decided to do apartments and buildings on the grasslands. The Serbian Progressive Party and President Vucic will win the election due to fantastic results in the past 10 years. The best programme is what President Vukic and SNS have done over the past 10 years, raising Serbia, building Serbia, injecting Serbia, treating Serbia, treating the past in the present and for the future. Betrayal is not an option! Victory is an option! Long live Serbia! Thank you!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12274	Since the system is currently full, just to make sure the amendment promoter wants a word? Yeah. I'm deleting the list. Please let him sign up. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12275	The amendments that I have made and which have been accepted by the Government, I thank you, so that I do not turn out to be a whiff of other people's feathers and for the public to know, are amendments agreed on by inter-party dialogue between the authorities and the opposition. It is a product of joint work on the inter-party dialogue of representatives of the ruling coalition, people who showed statehood and awareness that when we happen to go to the impasse of the electoral process, which happened to us, to happen, a thousand times I said, so you were angry, that it looked more like the main SNS board. Now here I'm saying that you realized that it wasn't good and you went out to the maximum to meet something that was a good process and your opposition colleagues also realized that the idea of a boycott was not good. This is the beginning of a good relationship in our political system where both the government and the opposition assume responsibility to do things in a state-of-the-art way. I was here as the only opposition MP from the Serb people who submitted these amendments and I am pleased and honored to be able to participate in this process. As far as the story itself is concerned and how important this process is, I want to point out that in the moment that in Western Europe, in America half the people think that the elections are stolen, when the media are banned, when we come into a situation where we can no longer see this western part of the world in terms of democracy and human rights, here this Assembly and our opposition had the courage and strength to create an institutional framework that is quite good and that will remain as a sign of the right voice at the moment when the whole world is slipping into totalitarianism and whispers democracy. Of course, I wouldn't be an opposition MP if I didn't say anything else. Until we reform the political system in the part of the party model, whatever laws we pass in the matter of elections, as long as we can have mass and leadership parties, they will, on one other line of informal influence, interfere with our electoral system. There's nothing going on overnight, nothing can come after the chase to win. What is now arranged is one good thing and here I thank my colleagues from the position and from the opposition for showing one large part of the state's responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12276	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12277	Ladies and gentlemen, on the draft laws we are discussing today and on which we will vote tonight, 16 amendments have been tabled. The most amendments, ten, have been submitted to the laws most interested in the citizens of Serbia, which is the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Law on the Selection of Councils in Assemblys of Municipalities and Cities. Of the 16 amendments, the Serbian government accepted eight. Out of the eight amendments accepted, seven were filed by the opposition. Where you will better confirm that the democratic capacity of this government is much greater than the opposition claims, and where you will be better confirmed and better confirmed that the claims that can be heard in the opposition, that in Serbia the government of dictatorship, are the most common nonsense. Presidential, parliamentary and local elections and Belgrade elections await us on 3 April. The elections will be held in several municipalities, including the Smederevska Palanka municipality, so I will take this opportunity to introduce the public in Serbia to all things, with all the changes that have taken place in Smederjevska Palanca in the last six years since the responsibility for the management of the municipality was assumed by the SNS. Six-seven years ago, Smederovska Palanka was both a figuratively and literally a black hole on Serbia's map. Why do I say it literally? Because there was no street lighting in that town. Imagine a city of 25,000 inhabitants, a settlement of 25,000 people in the 21st century living in the dark. The next thing that's very important, which speaks of what we inherited from DS, is the fact that the Smederevska Palanka municipality's account has been blocked for seven years. Of course, in the blockade were accounts of all public enterprises and institutions in the municipality and no wonder they were in the blockade, they had to be in a blockade when the previous government made a total debt greater than three billion dinars. It's more than 24m euros per course then. I wrote a text five or six years ago and I asked one question, and I'm really interested in it today, I'm interested in the answer, how is it possible that someone in a municipality that has an annual budget of eight million euros makes a debt of 24 million euros? Except there was no street light, Smederevska Palanka, she didn't have any drinking water. That's where the water restrictions lasted for years. In some parts of the city, restrictions lasted 14 hours. For electricity alone, local self-government owed a billion and 200 million, meaning more than 10m euros, and the water pipeline owed 700m dinars. Since the responsibility for the management of Smederevska Palanka has taken over the SNS, the city has normal street lighting and the city has a normal supply of drinking water. This is possible because seven years ago, the water pipeline delivered to citizens 45 cubic metres of water per second, now delivering more than 200 litres of water for the reason that the Serbian government financed the construction of new wells, new wells and invested money in the renovation of existing wells. The municipality, among other things, owed 240 million dinars in cultural institutions. The streets and roads were in desperate condition. The road from Smederjevska Palanka to Velika Plana, which is the exit of Smederjevska Palanka on the highway Belgrade – Nis, was literally in the holes. Someone calculated it once and published it in one text, I don't know if it's true, but it's approximately, that at 12,000 meters that time he counted four thousand holes. The government was in a reconstruction that time, I was talking about it yesterday, invested five million euros. Now it's a modern, often heard here, European traffic. The main city traffic station, the main city street from the entrance from the Velika Plana to the exit in the direction of Mladenvec to the turn of Zazanje, was completely reconstructed. So, a new sewer was done, a new water network, a new woodwork planted, new sidewalks made. Well, among other things, as far as the road network is concerned, it has been reconstructed seven kilometers to Topoli, 18 kilometers to Kusadka, a road between Kusadka and Azanja in the length of seven kilometers, nearly five kilometers to Cerovac and Vodice, and the construction of roads between Smederjevska Palanka and Glibovac, and from Azanja to Selevac in the length of 20km. For all this road network, for the reconstruction of these roads, the Serbian government has singled out 12m euros. Be careful, these people in charge of the municipality, left a municipality of 24m euros in debt, and we, our government, the SNS government, only sent 12m euros to the municipality for travel infrastructure. Just two years ago, the location of Guberas, right on the border between the Great Plane and Smederjevska Palanka, was a meadow in the weeds. Now there's a modern Korean cable production plant, electric car cables. The factory currently employs 450 workers. I think there's a public call going on right now for the reception of new workers. The total value of the project is greater than 20m euros, and the plan is to employ 700 workers by the end of this year. Just a few more details to illustrate what the government of the DS has done to the citizens of the Great Plan and the Smederjevska Palanka. A building permit was issued four days ago for the construction of a health centre in Smederjevska Palanca. Listen to this. The project is worth nearly seven billion dinars. What does this project mean? The complete reconstruction of Stefan High Hospital, the acquisition of state-of-the-art equipment, the construction of a new hospital wing, the complete construction of a new home of health, including the construction of a heliodrome since the hospital is responsible for one part of the highway from Belgrade to Nis, so that God does not give up in the event of an accident, injured people can be transported to the hospital by helicopter. On December 28th last year, 15 refugee families in Smederjevska Palanca received apartments. The work on reconstruction of the "Nikola Tesla" OS in Glibovac is under way, and all works have been completed, so the project has been done, all consent has been obtained for the full reconstruction of the school in Smederjevska Palanca, one of the best high schools in Serbia in which the level of education has failed, regardless of all these Bolognas and all these changes. All preparatory works, administrative works have also been carried out to reconstruct "Gosa" Engineering School. The construction of the National Museum is being completed. For that reconstruction, the government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out ten million dinars. In total, 40 million dinars have been invested by the government of Serbia in the reconstruction of cultural facilities in the Smederjevska Palanka municipality territory, only in the last three years. There's a lot more, but I don't want to take up time. These facts that I have cited are the answer to the question why the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka, the citizens of the Great Plan, why the citizens of Serbia will vote on April 3rd to continue this policy, why they will vote for Aleksandar Vucic to remain in the position of Serbian President and why he will vote for the SNS, together with his coalition partners, to re-shape the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12278	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12279	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the respected minister, respected representatives of the ministry, citizens and citizens, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party and our parliamentary club, together with the United Peasant Party, will vote in favour of these amendments. In an inter-party two-way dialogue, the Justice and Reconciliation Party participated. We think it's a good thing we talked about and a good compromise was made because both part of the ruling majority and part of the opposition is not fully satisfied and when a good compromise is made, then all should be slightly dissatisfied. What I want to point out is that, in our view, the boycott is an absolutely legitimate form of political struggle, and all those who claimed that this Assembly had no legitimacy, they were absolutely wrong, because they simply took part so that some of them entered parliament, some of them participated, and they did not get enough support for citizens and citizens, and some simply decided not to participate. Also, when we see, for individuals it seems that the elections themselves are not important, it is only important that they be part of the ruling majority and so that no electoral conditions, the improvement of electoral conditions did not interest them. What I want to point out is that it's very important that it went out to the fullest extent possible to meet all the demands of the so-called. "the boycott of the opposition", which our partners from the EU, from the European Parliament, have seen that we do not have some autistic authority here. Simply, if we have a ruling majority who wants to talk, wants to hear the arguments, wants to come out to meet the demands, because it suits us one game, an election process because after that process no one will be able to point a finger at RIK and say – well, I am not satisfied. The other day I said there was no game where the loser would say he was guilty and not good enough, but it's very important because of citizens and citizens, because of history, because of the international public, that it went to the maximum and that for the first time in RIK we have extraparliamentary parties simply so that no one could express any suspicion. As far as media freedoms are concerned, it is simply a million-dollar issue and every political actor or social player will say that it is not sufficiently presented and I have repeatedly said that the Justice and Reconciliation Party as the strongest Bosniak party, but other minority communities are not sufficiently represented in the Media Public Service and should take a little account of all this, but it is not exclusive of our country either. We were in a situation where the president of the strongest country in the world of the United States would be in a situation where no television would let go of his statement and cut him off from social networks and then come into a paradoxical situation that you were the president of the most powerful country, and that you could dictate only to your own secretary. So it's a very complex topic and it's not just spoken in our country, but it's simply present in Western societies, even in societies that are considered a cradle of modern democracy. As for the amendments tabled by counterpart Glisic, and the government accepted, our parliamentary group will vote. I'm glad it came out and about this order when it comes to the president's election. Just wanted to create an atmosphere that's more important to what number you're on the list, not what your policy is, what your personal credibility is, I don't know, what the attitudes you represent, etc. Simply, all those excuses that could serve anyone are now eliminated. Also, when it comes to campaign financing, where it comes down to a larger amount, when a list is handed over, I think it's very good, but again we're going back to that famous fact -- if you're a good candidate, if you have a good list, a strong party, strong ideas, if you're a credibility person, you'll find money for your ideas, if you don't god damn well any change of any law simply won't help you, because you won't be able to find people who are ready, your members, your supporters who will pay a donation to your idea, because they don't believe that these ideas or you personally as the bearer of that idea can win. I think it's a big deal, after all, that no government has ever met in any country, by me or in the region, or in Europe, the opposition. I think we're going to have fair democratic elections and we're going to win the one that's better, the one that the citizens trust and that candidate and those lists behind which the results stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12280	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12281	I thank the esteemed Vice President. Of course it has already been said, these amendments submitted by fellow Glisic are actually the result of an inter-party dialogue, i.e. the discussion that was held on the second track with political parties who did not want to talk to European parliamentarians, so don't think that I speak to you personally when I talk about the amendments. So this is another confirmation of how important it is that this time talks are held on two tracks. So, with parties who want to talk to European parliamentarians and parties who do not want to talk to European parliamentarians. The Socialist Party of Serbia has defined itself to participate in both processes, because above all, as I said in the opening statement, we believe that from this process when we talk about electoral conditions you cannot exclude anyone, and we wanted to listen to any suggestion, any proposal that can contribute specifically to better electoral conditions in Serbia if there were such proposals at all. When it comes to this amendment – the order of candidates on the list to elect the President of the Republic, the opposition vanparliamentary insisted that the draw determine what number the presidential candidate will receive. We'll vote for this amendment, it's absolutely not a dispute, because it's a matter of agreement. We know what the deal means and we know what it means when a compromise solution is reached to keep the word. That's how responsible and serious parties behave. We are not like that part of the opposition that started the talks, came to the first round of dialogue and said – 42 demands or boycotts, because it is certainly not a way to reach compromise and consensus. I want to say what we think as a parliamentary group. We think that by adopting this amendment in some way, it is a clear goal that the same presidential candidate does not have the same number on the parliamentary list, it does not have the same number on the city list. It is a clear goal that the opposition wants to achieve, because it thinks their presidential candidate may receive a number of votes with a number. Wait, isn't this how Serbian citizens are underestimated? Does anyone really think that Serbian citizens are so illiterate that they will not look at the name and name of the presidential candidate before choosing who they will vote for? I wouldn't say the election process was in some kind of stalemate. That's what I was talking about during the debate and in principle -- how we only saw that deadlock in 2019 and now the boycott, no matter what boycott, the boycott failed, failed after the boycott. I see that today we are talking here and adopting another five amendments by the opposition, and yet you have another part of the opposition that already says the elections have been stolen and are preparing a protest in advance. Wait, what have we been doing all this time? Accepting all the views of the European parliamentarians, accepting everything the extra-parliamentary opposition has asked of us when it comes to the second track, and you want to actually amnesty of yourself with this attitude. You've amnested yourself out of responsibility by calling yourself some kind of leader of the opposition, so you're looking for other candidates to hide behind. Sorry, Serbian citizens expect the leader to show responsibility, show courage, stand by the name and last name as the first on the list specifically or candidate for president or mayoral candidate and weigh with other political options. They showed their courage by hiding behind the presidential candidate, hiding behind the mayoral candidate, and besides that, they say the elections were stolen and protests are already being organised in advance. I don't know what it is that we can do today, here we are still having a debate today in particular, what is it that we can do here, specifically all as representatives of citizens, as legitimately elected representatives of citizens? This is not the main committee of any party, because this parliament, in fact, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the voice of the people. Let the citizens decide who will sit in these parliamentary benches and I would not underestimate and humiliate the citizens of Serbia, degrade and devalue their voice, but what is it that we can do further on these five amendments, we will accept these five amendments, what is further what we need to do to make someone realize that democracy in Serbia is being held in elections, not on the street, not through protests? Streets, protests, cannot change Serbia's political course. It happened once in 2000, but then there was, and I must admit I have serious support for the citizens, regardless of what they organised those protests and those who funded, they failed to support it. If they failed the confirmation today, here in 2022, tell me where is one of those 18 political parties that made DOS at the time? They're gone. None of them are parliamentary parties. Where are those who drove them out of power in 2000? I ask myself and we from the parliamentary group ask ourselves, we have talked, what is it that we can do further to finally understand that democracy in Serbia is being achieved in the elections and only in the elections. In order for someone to vote you in the elections, if you are an opposition, you have to represent some alternative to the ruling coalition, you have to have a program, you have to have people who are guaranteed to realize that programme, not hide behind other people, but go out with a concrete program. Not like, Dragan Gilas says the day after. You know what day after? One wrote the other day -- it wasn't October 6th, but it will be April 4th. Not like Vuk Jeremic, while we are dealing with serious issues here in parliament and as we discuss electoral conditions, he writes some resolution about rematchism, where he mentions lustration and I don't know what. I don't know what he doesn't realize. He's changled, he's changled by the citizens. The best lustration is held in the election. At that time, citizens determine whether some political parties should be relevant and should sit in this house or not. So we're going to vote for this amendment anyway, but I've had to make a series of findings that we really don't understand as a Parliament club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12282	Since we've completed the amendment's search, I've concluded the review of the law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. The second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Selection of People's MEPs You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Vladan Glisic, Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamović, Selma Kučević, Nadja Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Adjan Bajrami. National MP Snezana Paunovic wrote a letter withdrawing the amendment to Article 73. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Glisic. Does anyone want a word? I'm going to delete the list again to allow the applicant of the amendment to log in. National MP Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12283	The amendment, as two other amendments I tabled, is "Transparency Serbia", i.e. the Transparency of Serbia has directed to all parliamentary groups, believing it could be an improvement in the electoral process. I have defined myself for these amendments for various reasons, and this one that is very much related to the selection of MPs is very important because it allows citizens to be informed through public media service that they have the right under the Alert Act, which was adopted in 2015 in the Serbian Assembly and which is valid, that, as alarmers before and during the elections, they draw attention to any irregularities that would occur. In this way, RIK appears as the first degree in reporting alarms, and so we get, if this amendment is adopted, when adopted, we get the possibility that our citizens who often have objections to the electoral process can, if they are estimated to have reasonable allegations, get the status of alarmers and thus get more easily into the procedure of controlling election irregularities. I think that's important and good. It would be good to adopt in line with the spirit of improving our electoral process. But what independent of this people's network has long been as its proposal is to introduce the institution of a provoking agent, in order to clean up our electoral system and our electoral process from many of the buyers and voters, people who, regardless of what political option they belong to, are willing to go to buy votes from voters and voters who are willing to sell their civil rights and thus put us in a position to fully justify the citizens' will. So, this amendment is part of a beginning of an election reform that I hope will be heard by the future assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12284	Thank you. By amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12285	I thank the chairman. Now, from the moment on, and you were the chairman of that time with me, and I with you, when we started talking to Europarliamentaries even at the Faculty of Political Sciences, I didn't even dream that some government, and in this case the government that I belong to, would make it impossible for myself to be an equal participant in the electoral process, and it really never happened anywhere. Remembrances for your sake, just remember how they raised an incredible hickey that didn't suit their election conditions, by the way, be told all election laws that were valid were passed in their time. They left us with this disaster, as they say, of electoral conditions. So until 2012, certain rules were in force, and I'm telling you now, they would never bring anything like this, as we are now. But let's remember, and I reported on purpose, to remind people, they first started off with a story about how badly unsettled voting lists were. There they showed one elemental ignorance of the electoral process because there are no electoral lists, there is a Central Election Election List, and that is by the law they adopted. So then another unique Central Electoral List was made, but they were always harassing us so that, of course, the voter lists were no good, and then when they were finally told, that it was never a more orderly voter list than it is now. Then they put it aside, like it's no longer valid, and then they went on about how scary it was who controlled REM, who controlled some media bodies, and that's where you could actually see, just when we talked about that media surveillance, that they didn't care at all. They were actually interested in how the "Multicom" group, namely United Group, could reach REM and RTS, because they were only interested in seconds. They were not interested in election conditions at all. When it's also shown to the public somehow and it's completely lame what they're saying, then they're going to start saying there's no conditions, so they're going to boycott. Now, they're boycotting now, so I guess they're burned, so now they're going to the election, and God knows what they want. By the way, by the way, Mr. Orlic, on many occasions we attended, all of these Europarliamentaries they called on, and personally I was against talking to those Europarliamentarians, because it was completely illogical for me that someone from abroad came and interfered with our election process, but come on, they say it was democracy, they called them the most, and these same people were always at the end of every election process laughing at them in the face. Because they figured out who they were dealing with. Then experience telling us that Tanja Fajon is an amazing negotiator, that she is something fantastic, that the sun of the democracy of Slovenia from which she comes, and even she is who she is, she realized who she is dealing with and she said – wait for the people, you are not quite clear what you are looking for. So I have to admit, what we're bringing now, because they're complaining about the election rules being passed two months before the election, so you asked for it. You've been harassing those Europarliamentaries and these people have come here because of you. I don't know, now that they say these are cosmetic changes, here we ask the public question -- would they ever bring something like this? I have to tell the citizens of Serbia what we did and I will insist on it all the time. The SNS authorities have completely kicked the SNS out of the electoral process in terms of any influence and in terms of any normal and equal campaigning. We have decimated our party in an election campaign, because our officials will not be able to perform in the media unless they are MPs, and even when they perform as MPs, only if it is a paid term, unlike their officials who are nothing and can perform wherever they will, however they will, as long as they will. So we threw our party out of the media debate or out of the media presentation completely. On the other hand, it has never happened in history, that a party that has an absolute majority in election commissions has a minority. It's the first time that's happened. So, we ourselves have limited ourselves to being a party that has an absolute majority, to which citizens have given this much trust, to be a minority, as well as to all election committees. So that story about stealing doesn't stand. Either you're incompetent, or you're stupid, or you're bribery, whatever, but it's definitely impossible for someone to steal the election. It's nonsense and nonsense. It's their alibi for losing the election. You know, when you lose 40% of the difference, what would someone do? Why would anyone ever try to steal an election and beat you by 40% difference? The point is, you people don't have any program. Here, now this is your best indicator, today Gilasa has checked out everyone, even this Free Serbia Assembly won't go with him, no one will go to the election with him. Somehow, it seems to me that with these candidates who have been presented in public, they have lost those elections in advance. But don't let them whine later. We see already, that Serbian citizens must know, that they are preparing a script for April 4th, as Borko Stefanovic told us, whatever the result, they will go out on the street. I also asked the honourable minister here, given what election rules we are making, perhaps we should have, in law, one member who says it's forbidden to beat the SNS, for example, and that he has to beat the opposition. Or, let's just say, at the very least, that we gave them 20% of the benefits, so we have to get somewhere. Maybe that's the way it was supposed to be, because these election rules are like if you were going to race and someone was shooting at both your legs and you were going to run. Here, these are your election rules regarding our party. I'm saying, maybe we should have put in that clause that it's forbidden to defeat the SNS and that the government has to surrender to the opposition. They obviously, as unhappy as they are, expect someone to accommodate them to be a government and they'll do anything about it. It's obvious that such candidates are launching, too, because I don't believe that someone proud would launch to be a candidate, unless he says, since they're really serious international turmoil and there's one serious indication that there can be a conflict in Ukraine, that someone is trying to say, "Here, we have the Pride, he might send our army to Ukraine to war against the Russians, or who knows, maybe it's somewhere on their minds and that's some kind of agenda somewhere. I don't see any reason why any man who, even in all their research, couldn't possibly win, would have put him up to be a presidential candidate, but, again, it's already some other thing. What I must point out, which is definitely clear now, and this public must know, because the confirmation of a potential assassination that was to be carried out on President Alexander Vukic, came from Europol as an international European police organisation and since it came from one serious EU member country, I am just asking the citizens of Serbia a question to think about -- what would happen in this country that something like this really happened, or if it were realized, as it was announced, that it would happen in February, the second half of February of the month? What would this country look like, what kind of chaos would be made here? Then who would take over? Whatever's going on here, it's definitely got to be thought about and there's their plan somewhere. The plan is to say that they were stolen, that they didn't have equal conditions, although I'm going to point out once again that we're bringing conditions where we're unequal and they have absolute domination in everything. But, however, I'm just being wronged by the SNS, which we bring here, this is further distracting me from completely breaking them in the elections, to show them where they belong and that on April 3rd, Serbia, which is finally Serbia, which is not disgusted by Marinko's bar, Serbia which is not disgusted by the Serbian peasant, Serbia who loves Nemanje and which is not like Milojko Pantic, who is otherwise one of Dragan Dilas' adjudicators, today writes the text, the worst vomit in Stefan Nemanja, St. Sava, according to the bishop Nikola Velimirovich, by Avi Justin, etc., throughout the Serbian Orthodox Church, so I ask the bishop Gregory what he thinks about the text of Milojko Pantic, does he perhaps disgust St. Sava, even though he is the bishop of the SPC, I hope that he is not too shy? In any case, such an rude Serbia that would tear down a monument to the founder of the Serbian medieval state, which apparently is expressed in such a vulgar way about the Holy Sava, might also be the temple of St. Sava to bring down, who knows what can come to mind, that Serbia must never win. Simply, we will work on the 3rd of April with the plan and the program and all that we have done so far, because the works speak, and I ask the citizens to watch the works, and on 3 April we will defeat them with a convincing defeat and we will win just so that this Serbia continues to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12286	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. National MP Vladan Glisic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The promoter doesn't want a word. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12287	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Minister with his associates, one is the electoral law and the other is the will of the people. I mean, no electoral law can change the will of the people. In front of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, with Dragan Markovic Palm and counterpart Life Starcevic, I participated in talks with Europarliamentarians. A unique Serbia has also participated in talks on electoral conditions without MEPs. I'm taking my personal opinion. So anywhere in the world, two opposing political organisations or coalitions or whatever you want, it's never been recorded in history that they went out to meet the other side and that allows them to win power. The result of the negotiations we had -- it came out to opposition parties to meet for more questions in their favour. To be fair, JS has been a parliamentary party since 2004 and, to be fair, we are a state-owned party, a socially responsible party. Then it is also normal, if we are speaking politically, that the president of our party, Dragan Markovic Palma, is visiting on RTS. I think it's perfectly normal. The fact is, our president isn't on RTS in two years. That could be the basis for us to say we're not satisfied. What is the fact that on every guest that Dragan Markovic Palma has, ratings is growing, sher is growing. Sher is how in real time you can see how many people follow a particular show. That is the basis for us to say, since we do not have the opportunity for our president to host on RTS, to express some of our political dissatisfaction. In 2020 in the elections, parliamentary elections and local elections, the Socialist Party of Serbia and Unity Serbia and our current coalition partners on the second list of SNS, we had an obligation under the law at the time that the signatures of the lists of our voters had to be certified by the notaries. When we handed over the lists, when we respected what the law asked for, then you went out to meet the opposition and said – you no longer have to verify the signatures of the notaries, you can do so now with local municipal verifyers. Another thing where the opposition is also very important at the time, which is that the 5% censorship goes down to 3%. It is now planned that one voter can sign in more places. It means that one voter with his signature can support more lists. We from the JS support this amendment that does not allow it and which state returns to the beginning, to a situation where one signature can support a single list. Personally, I don't think it's normal in that proposal, as the MEPs have given, that one voter can support the government, can support the opposition, can support the left-hand side, can support the right-hand side. It's not normal for me to see that the same person has several membership cards. I have witnessed what happened since the 2004 elections to this day several times, that such people who have several membership cards, no matter who they voted for, who they worked for in the elections, always run to the winners, congratulate and say, "Here, we helped make such a result." That reminds me of that home movie, if you remember, with Bosca Buh and that photographer he took, I don't know how any more. When they're in the German city, the photographer puts a picture of the Germans. The Germans go, the partisans come, he puts a picture of the partisans. So if it didn't come out, if one of these amendments hadn't been adopted, we'd have a situation where the same signatorium of any candidate has the right to vote multiple times. It means he can vote for a few lists. I welcome the change that makes it easier to collect signatures in smaller areas with a higher number of committee candidates in these four categories. I believe that this will be a chance for many smaller and weaker organisations and for groups of citizens to engage actively in socio-political life and that they can participate together with us in these political races. When it comes to the list of SPS and JS, not now, but also in history, and also in the future, whatever election conditions are, and believe me, when these negotiations were that we didn't want to manipulate anyone, we supported the coalition partners from the SNS who came out of the opposition's demands to meet, I can say SPS and JS will always participate in the elections. That will be the case on April 3rd when it comes to our list of republican elections, when it comes to our list of Belgrade elections, as well as the result of candidates for the presidential elections supported by the SPS and JS coalition. So there is no electoral condition or some electoral rule that can reduce the result that Ivica Dacic and Dragan Markovic Palma hold in the elections, because I repeat once again from this opening statement, elections do not get election laws, but elections are won by the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12288	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Glisic to Article 112. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Mirkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12289	President-in-Office, respected minister with associates, representatives of the government, respected fellow Members of Parliament and fellow MPs, I think today's amendments ahead of us, as well as a set of laws we discussed on Wednesday best paint the will, desire and understanding of the SNS for all needs that the opposition has today. I will agree with colleagues who spoke before me that such electoral conditions, such electoral changes have never been seen in our country. There are many topics that we can discuss, many points and changes that we can discuss, but I will also agree with my colleague Djukanovic, who discussed earlier, that all these proposals are in the least advantage of the SNS. Why? For the simple reason why we are discussing all this today and everything that we will later adopt in the voting day clearly gives the strongest possible possibility to the opposition to finally, once and for all, come out and say – that, now, the conditions are finally good and we have never participated in this kind of choice before. Why? In 2012, since the start of the electoral process and the participation of the SNS since 2009 and 2010, at the local level, and henceforth, the DS has used its position of power for all kinds of manifestations and abuses. However, when Serbian citizens made a clear decision and put their trust in the SNS, all of a sudden all those conditions that were applicable to the DS until then, and later this part of the opposition led by Dragan Gilas, suddenly became conditions that were unacceptable. However, after a party dialogue that took place on two fronts, we have come to the position that all their demands are accepted, and that they predict again today, speculate, invent, make up lies and deceive the public in advance that the elections will be stolen. It's nothing more than an alibi attempt trying to create another electoral debacle that awaits them. You, Mrs. Obradovic, in your Wednesday presentation you presented a lot of details and I think that every citizen was familiar with the changes that await us, but I've been looking at it from another angle, for the simple reason of the technical things of what is reality. In fact, if we're talking about 10,000 signatures that are necessary for a list of candidates, I'm interested in how realistic it is that the Party of Freedom and Justice of Dragan Gilas, along with Vuk Jeremic and the other team, is looking for people who will be in polling stations, so in 8,000 polling stations, how realistic is it that they collect these 10,000 signatures and run for elections? The bill is very clear. If you can't know right now who's going to guard your boxes and your voting rights in polling stations, but you're looking for these people by ad and Twitter, how can you count on some larger election result and where do you even get the courage to declare and announce your own convincing victory? What is particularly interesting to me is the running for representatives in the Republic Election Commission, where it is now allowed for those representatives of citizens who do not have a committee group, or parliamentary groups, to run for office. This shows the widest possible democracy, and that is another indicator of how much SNS wants this election process to go as transparently as possible, because we are confident of the will of citizens, because we are confident in the choice of Serbian citizens, because we are confident in the results we have achieved. What Mr. Milicevic looked back on is the fact, a discussion about whether it is necessary for a regular number on the presidential candidate's list to be determined by the submission of a list or draw. It's absolutely for SNS anyway. I will remind you that in 2017, President Aleksandar Vukic was under regular number 6, and that did not interfere with us in any single situation, nor did we object and complain at that time, because we are confident of what we are doing and politics, particularly President Aleksandar Vukic. Someone here mentioned that they thus insult the intelligence of citizens. The question is, are they doing it? I don't think we can absolutely discuss whether they're doing it, but it's a fact. I would remind you that in his presentation, one of the representatives of the opposition said that the SNS is afraid that the city list, or the Belgrade city list and parliament list, will have number one, and then will not be able to explain to its voters if President Aleksandar Vukic is a candidate under another regular number. This is a slap on every citizen who supports SNS policy, because this is how that part of the opposition led by Dragan Gilas in the most direct and brutal way demeans them. So, don't even ask their opinion of Serbian citizens who don't think like them. Also, we talked about whether one, which will be the subject and later one of the amendments, the voter can support more lists. It's just amazing to me that opposition parties have stood up against it and now they're bothered by it. The question arises why and why? Are they now at war with each other, will anyone else support another list that is not Gilas's, so whether it suits them or not? Well, then they move and say, "It's in the interest of the SNS." Just explain to me how, when SNS is the most powerful party in our country, with the largest number of members and within the shortest possible time, we were the first to teach both signatures and lists. So I don't see how or how this could jeopardize us. But it best paints all their impotences and attempts in any way to degrade everything we vote today and to show that they are not satisfied with election conditions and that these elections will not be in fair terms. I've been trying to find anywhere in the world an example of these changes in the election process, and I really haven't found it. The fact that one of the previous fellow Members of the People's Parliament has said – now it bothers them that it happens two months before the elections. I don't know what these changes are threatened with. I guess they should be happy and happy, because they got everything they wanted. However, a second question is now being raised, and we have often talked about it, it is with which they face citizens and Belgrade and Serbia. One of the colleagues also set up an excellent thesis, not a result or election conditions, but what you're going out with in front of citizens, which is the result and, more importantly, the plan and the programme. It's an idea. I am convinced that the Serbian Progressive Party has so far achieved huge results in all fields, from infrastructure, roads, highways, construction of hospitals, schools, from better financial conditions and consolidation of our financing since 2013 and 2014, higher salaries and pensions, that we are not going back to everything we have talked about in the past period. However, what remains particularly interesting is the candidacy of Gilas's options and three names that at a conference a few days ago did something that was a kind of precedent in our country, and I believe in the world as well. During that candidacy, both Ponoš and Tepic and Jankovic did something that no one has done so far. They devoted their entire conference to defamation and carrying out some lies and lies, with no single letter offering any programme, any kind of programme, to the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. I don't want to talk too much and waste time on him, because I think that while he was at the head of the Ministry of Defense, the best and the very fact, as the people of the army, who were in that part of our country, were acting, said the smartest thing – what NATO failed to do to our army did to Ponos. I think it best depicts what this man was in that position and how much damage he did to our country. The tank killer, as they called him, a man who managed to break up battalions, who managed to degrade anyone who was honorable and honest and who was in his way. All due to the interest of Western forces or, as he would say, of any greater interest in its internal circles. He's their presidential candidate. I ask the question to the citizens of Serbia, if such damage has caused our country from that place, ask yourself, please, just for one second, what would you do to Serbia if it came to an opportunity, by some miracle, to be president of Serbia. About Mrs Tepic, I think many stories have been told, but as someone who claims to be prime minister, as someone who claims to be, whether here in parliament or at the highest possible state functions representing Serbia, I think a lot of things have been said, but literally from this tide something has come out that disqualifies her from any race in that sense at the very beginning. If you have a woman in this house who insists that a resolution be adopted, signed by the Serbian people and Serbia, be declared a genocide country, I think that such a woman disqualified herself and cannot be in the place she wants for herself and to which she bids. Putting such a stamp on our country for personal interests, personal political points, or some others is unacceptable. I don't want to look back at the coke stretch, where she saw some marijuana plantation, and I don't want to look back at those other truths of hers about the releases from Kickinda, the baby of two years, and I don't want to look back at all those untruths she's been making. But the only question is: is it possible for a woman who took a picture with drug dealers, who asked her to move out and move out journalists who had only written about her punitive business, to be expected to do anything in the interest of Serbian citizens, and does such a person deserve the trust of the citizens for any function, especially for the post of prime minister, of whom she has a great imagination? For the very end I left the last pearl in their ranks, the biggest surprise for me indeed, although I find it difficult to understand that these people had run before. It is about a certain Mr. Jankovic who is being designed to be mayor of Belgrade. With all due respect and his years and all, it's just amazing and try to find that example anywhere in the world that a man running for mayor, can come out and say nothing about the programme and how he sees Belgrade in the next period or what he would do and change, but in his first presentation, he says he is not competent and he does not understand Belgrade's leadership. The capital, according to some data, is about two million people circulating, which is because of work, which is because of tourism, which is what people who live in, some estimates are about two million people to circulate through our city. I'm asking the citizens of Belgrade now -- can you show trust to a man who says, "I'm not for it, I don't know how to do it," and then when he realized what he said, "I'm not an expert, but I think I could make a team"? So how could you make a team, if you don't know what you want to do and what direction you want Belgrade to go and develop? I don't want to talk about his age right now. If he considers himself capable of running a city like Belgrade in 82 years, it is his absolute right, but here we are thinking about competences and thinking in the other direction. Why does this Dragan Gilas, when he says to himself that he is so popular that he is so powerful that so many people love him, and he was already mayor, why didn't he run for mayor again? Or else he is just aware that the people do not want him and that more citizens of Belgrade, and the rich and Serbian people have not forgotten all of his marifettelus, all of those affairs that marked his mandate and the power of the Democratic Party, when everyone in Belgrade and Serbia were only poor, and he was rich and his companies were creating empires of business, so he scattered over 60m euros in the white world or their revenues of 619m euros that he made directly trading seconds with state television. What concerns me particularly, I don't think we've talked about it enough, I've discussed it in some previous period, I've warned, I'm not sure I might have time to discuss it over the next week, but I want to finish my exposure. Serbia's advanced party is being set up today, i.e. They're trying to create such a maneuvering space that we can't win the election on April 3rd, and that's something unheard of. For days on the media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, we receive threats, so the most open threats, various puppets and spiders of Dragan Gilas who have the same mantra and pay attention to those sentences – on April 3rd we will defend our victory. And what victory and how do they know that, if they say they're gonna lose the election and the election's been stolen? What is particularly worrying, on the other hand, is the trend that Borko Stefanovic repeated the other day, where in some exhibition that I can't even quote how confusing it was, I will try to quote, said: "Don't happen to have Alexander Vukic come out on April 3rd and say – you didn't win in Belgrade, don't happen to say that Zdravko Ponos didn't enter the second round and don't happen to say that they won the republican elections convincingly. If it comes to that, we'll go out to the streets." I am also asking questions for competent institutions – what kind of atmosphere is created and what are we to expect on April 3rd, where we defacto as the Serbian Progressive Party are in a situation that we cannot even win. I am now asking Serbian citizens, but also those representatives of that part of the opposition – is this the setting of things seen anywhere in the world and what can we expect from that day forward? It is good to discuss these things in time and to suggest these things, because on April 3, elections will take place, citizens will decide according to their thinking, their vision of whom they will define. But the growing hysteria in the ranks of that part of the opposition led by Dragan Gilas clearly shows that they are aware that these elections cannot win, but that such cheap manipulation, by trying to cause some kind of violence, will want to reduce this election result and bring Serbia into some kind of chaos. For the very end, I would like to invite citizens of Belgrade, Serbian citizens, to go to the elections on 3 April and only one thought is being held when the vote is held, and who is the party that can provide them and their family with a better tomorrow and a better future. Who is this party, and who is this man, who, so far with his results, has made it possible for all of us as citizens of Serbia to live better, to live more proudly? So, who is this man and what party, which, for all the sake of it so far, has legitimacy and can demand citizens' trust to continue in the direction we're going today? If all of this is taken into account by the citizens, I am convinced that the policy of President Alexander Vukic and the SNS can expect a convincing victory and that, together after these elections in the new assembly, we continue to work harder in the new routine, even better in the interests of our country and all those children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12290	Thank you. Parliamentarians Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami together submitted the amendment to Article 115. There is a word, according to the amendment, of the People's MP, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12291	I have to admit, I had no intention of following this amendment, but I am certainly pleased to talk about this amendment. You know I always want to talk about national minorities, because I have some respect for all national minorities, not really, I think. When it comes to what could have been heard during the debate in principle by representatives of national minorities, I must admit that certain incorrect information has been provided. So it is said here that during the inter-party dialogue with European parliamentarians, representatives of national minorities have agreed something. What's being said here, I haven't heard that the representatives of the national minorities have agreed. I'm sorry that there is no colleague Elvira Kovac, because she participated in this conversation and confirmed that the deal was not there. The only deal that has been reached is that with 10,000 signatures down to 5,000 signatures. In addition, this is a final document and a proposal following the second phase of the inter-party dialogue proposed by the Europarliamentary, which the ruling coalition immediately accepted, and the opposition that called on MEPs to mediate the talks did not accept. Although I think, you know, that one part of the opposition might have accepted this proposal, but he had fear, fear of these Gilas media, of not being attacked and perceived as co-workers of power. Otherwise, I am convinced that there is no fear that they will surely accept this concept of inter-party dialogue. What we were talking about when we were talking about national minorities, and in the debate and in principle I was not able to react, we did not discuss it during the inter-party dialogue, during the second phase of the inter-party dialogue. This was not the content of the final document produced by the MEPs. I want to get back to a few more things. Yes, he is absolutely right, counterpart Djukanovic, when he says, the ruling coalitions are in an unequal position, because let's speak openly. We have one joint presidential candidate, we have two lists as representatives of the ruling coalition, three with the SVM, all the rest are representatives of the opposition. So in every polling post you will have far more representatives of the opposition than representatives of the ruling coalition. How can it even question the regularity of the upcoming and Belgrade and presidential and parliamentary elections? (Marian Risticevic: They are stolen where they are. Well, only that way, you're right. That's right, it's stolen where it is, it can be the only concept they count on. And, you know what, sir, Risticevic, you see here there's an interesting amendment, they say the RIK should publish a list of the signatures of those who signed for the list. Well, now I know, someone just said that SNS was the first to turn in for the list. And, that's true, as the strongest political option right now, the SNS is always handing over the list. As the second most powerful political option, there is the SPS and all on a regular basis, certified by the notaries with a sufficient number of signatures and another possible political option. All the other political parties, so how they and who they introduce. On the RIK website, therefore, we will finally get to how and how they collected 10,000 signatures, and some in the elections do not have those 10,000 signatures. There aren't any, there's no score of 10,000. So, I don't think they've been thinking about proposing some amendments, probably wanting to extend this dialogue on a second track, since we're done talking to Europarliamentaries, but I think it's devastating for exactly this part of the opposition that's in confusion for one simple reason, because they don't have to do just the notaries now, because we've made it possible for them notary notaries not only to verify the signatures. The signatures may be certified by courts, judicial units and local self-government and local offices. So everything is simplified, everything can, you just have to gather tens of thousands of people to sign and you can't make this proposal that one voter can sign more election lists. That wasn't the opposition's proposal. It was not a proposal or a ruling coalition, it was an ODIR proposal. And I have to admit that, and I have to be honest, it didn't at some point fit any political option. For a little while, I was returned by my colleague Djukanovic, and there was Mr Orlic, who returned me to the Faculty of Political Sciences, and we are not there, and when it was, that was the beginning. So we didn't negotiate at the Faculty of Political Sciences, we didn't have anyone to negotiate with. We talked there, exchanged opinions, because on the one hand you had a position of 42 demands or a boycott and they left the next meeting, not a single meeting ever appeared again, and the rest of these experts, representatives of the NGO sector, who were trying to ask us, in fact, to give them a position, to give them a clear opinion on their proposals. Wait, so any serious political option can declare a position after considering the party's organs. I guess that makes sense. But what did they want? They've been trying to tie our hands all the time, to raise their price as organizers, and on the other hand, we don't have a clear view of one piece of the opposition. Correct me, sir, Eagle, if I'm wrong about anything. So, after that, the same representatives of NGOs, which was very disturbing to us as the SPS, so it's not our problem to talk, it's not our problem to talk, but if we talk, we talk to political parties who are participants in the electoral process. Again, we have representatives of some non-governmental sector that are alleged modernists or introductions to certain topics and give us some suggestions and suggestions. And then once upon a time I asked a question, one of those introductions, whom he really represents. Since I accidentally saw him at the protest of Dragan Gilas. I accidentally saw him on TV at the protest of Dragan Gilas, and I asked who he represented. He says I'm a journalist. Well, whether a journalist or an analyst or a representative of the NGO sector. My perception is that someone who supports Dragan Gilas and that Dragan Gilas and his group should not have come to the talks, because they didn't want a deal, but they sent an NGO that was actually supposed to raise the price for themselves, and to us, I repeat that he binds his hands and asks us to come to the final solutions, so that we will immediately make clear whether we accept something or do not accept it. This reminded me when someone mentioned they had submitted an amendment to Serbia's transparency. We have always felt that talks should be held in the institutions of the system and that in March 2019 a call was accepted, then the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, in order to discuss all of this we would not come to the stage that we needed European parliamentarians, that we needed two tracks, not but all political parties would move and talk to each other. We wouldn't need these modernists. On the other hand, getting out of this building and talking out there, even if it was the Faculty of Political Sciences on Election Conditions, which eventually must come back to the National Assembly and pass a certain legislative framework, whether it will be voted or not is a disrespect for the institutions of the system. From day one, we asked that the institutions of the system be respected and that the talks were conducted exclusively in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What we have defined after the first phase, since we have seen what happens during the first phase of the inter-party dialogue, where we are kind of political parties, you must admit and you have been there all along, you have to admit a little downgraded by the European parliamentarians to the parties of the first and party of the second order, because we have been discussed in the institutions of the system, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and with those who should have been persuaded not to go to boycott in hotel lobbys. So when a debate is organised on the topic of electoral conditions in Serbia, watch out, there is a debate in Brussels on electoral conditions in Serbia, as if European Parliamentarians do not have a more important topic than the topic of electoral conditions. At the time, they did not call on political parties who participated in inter-party dialogue, but went there Dragan Djilas, then as a representative of the Alliance for Serbia together with the Democratic Party and the rest of the opposition and presented only known facts and what was true for him at the time. So you couldn't hear the other side. That is why, and precisely from this degradation, the way we have been demoted by the euro parliamentarians in that first phase of inter-party dialogue, we have insisted on a platform that we have handed directly before the second phase of inter-party dialogue, the objectivity and impartiality of the "co-falitators", as they say. We have on one side a "co-falitator", which is the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He showed his objectivity and impartiality by holding talks on both tracks, and the Euro MPs again failed to show their impartiality, as I repeat, to all political parties sitting here and parliamentary, both positions and opposition, and representatives of national minorities, had 45 minutes to discuss. The next day, the non-parliamentary opposition had three hours to talk at the European Union headquarters, call the pro-European opposition and a little longer than three hours. So we insisted on objectivity and impartiality, that was the first thing, and it bothered us that it was not respected. On the other hand, we have made it very clear that the political parties that give up the inter-party dialogue cannot be an integral part of the final document that will form the euro of parliamentarians, as I am talking about inter-party dialogue at the moment. I am sorry that we did not adopt one more thing, and this was also a proposal for a platform designed by the SPS, and it concerns that all political parties will be doing certain videos during the election campaign and have certain messages, but that any advertising video, message, journalistic text or otherwise announced message by political parties and media during the election campaign that uses hate speech and which attacks family members, including children of selected public office holders or candidates in the election lists of political parties must immediately be sanctioned. So, to get out of public discourse everything that's negative so that we have normal communication and that we can talk normally. At the end of what we insisted on is the fact that this process, when it is finished, must have its epilogue here, in the plenary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through legislative activity, through legislative proposals. And, taught by the earlier experience that the European Commission's report does not stand as a negative assessment that we passed electoral laws in the year when elections were held in Serbia. Let me remind you, that was a negative assessment by the European Commission in the previous year's report and that we passed electoral laws right before the elections. Wait, they took part in the whole process and they know when we ended the process, so when we could adopt them. So we shouldn't have adopted them at all? Looks like we shouldn't have adopted them at all. What is crucial, if they were referring to one electoral law, which is about reducing the censorship from 5% to 3%, so that was support, and this is exactly what is outside the parliamentary opposition, because by lowering the censorship from 5% to 3%, they want to achieve a representative sample of public opinion here in parliament, and they want to move politics from the street to the parliament where it belongs, and then the government and the opposition would have to work far more, and they would have the possibility of those who are far from that famous censorship of 5%. to have their representatives at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's definitely not understood the right way. I am sorry that these three suggestions have not been accepted, but there will be opportunities when there is a fundamental reform of electoral legislation. Thank you, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12292	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, details as well as in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for Law on Local Elections You have received amendments submitted by MPs Vladan Glisic, Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamović, Selma Kučević, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. In writing, the amendment was withdrawn by MP Snezana Paunovic to Article 41. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vladan Glisic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12293	The amendment is also part of an inter-party dialogue, it is agreed that, in addition to the election commissions, it should not happen that over half of the members have any proposal, and above all it was about members, but it was also given to the deputy members, not to happen through the deputy members, that someone is in a position to exercise full control over election commissions. I don't agree with my colleague Djukanovic here, that this is too much of a meeting of the opposition, this is one quite appropriate meeting of the opposition, and that's where we return to what I was talking about, independent of these amendments themselves, and that when you have in one political system, one political party of such force as SNS, which has 750,000 members, and when you have such social power, one such mobilized organisation. All institutional frameworks are easily movable and easily bypassed through other social influences. So, in that sense, that syntagma about that SNS shooting at its feet here, and then going to the election game, it might be more likely for me to do it for the opposition parties, because we're all very well aware, none of the representatives of the opposition parties will tell you, but that the infrastructure of the opposition parties, the maltene non-existent south of Bubanj Potok. That infrastructure is fluid, it's people who aren't gathered around ideas. Many of them come from one party to another, have a problem with the willingness to respond to certain pressures that occur in local communities. So that's the problem, because a serious state, a strong government needs a strong opposition. This strong opposition can only occur by coming into what can be called an electoral impasse from which I hope we are now starting to come out through these agreements, we need to find a way to reach out and realize that there is a formal social environment in which opposition parties are very damaged in addition to this legislative framework. We are in some paradoxical way in the same situation as the moment when the Communist Party in the East was deposed, so when opposition rules are made over various round tables to ensure multi-partyism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12294	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12295	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Djukanovic only mentioned it, and I would like to make a commitment. One text on the portal, I have to directly mention it like this, because it's amazing what all the texts can read there. But what came out there today is something that is simply scandalous, that sports commentator Milojko Pantic, winged, PR winged, drunk PR wings Drana Gilas and the tycoon criminal opposition, tells Stefan Nemanja that he was illiterate, that he had not opened any school, contributed nothing to Serbian history, that Savindan was a fabrication to make up for Serbs, I don't know who, etc. I'm really trying to control myself, not to use a word that's going to be contrary to the Codex that we've brought, to be polite, and I'm going to be polite, Mr. Orlic, to show the difference between us and those that such nonsense can write. This monster, this drunken PR of Dragan Gilas, also said that the lie in the root of Serbian history, that everything that makes up our history, culture and tradition, everything we know, everything we learned in schools about our own history, it's all a lie, it's all a fabrication of a great, minor, that Serbia never existed, that it's all something that sucks, that it's not in, it's not, I don't know how. Is it normal to talk about your own country and your own history and culture? Do such people deserve to even collect enough lists to go to the polls? Can anyone in their right mind support such a thing? Can anyone in their right mind finance writing such texts? Anyone well-intentioned? If he's not normal, he doesn't have any good intentions. It's simple, I'm not naive, nor am I crazy to expect Dragan Gilas to have any good intentions towards Serbia, but I didn't expect anyone to say that he's a monstrous monument to Stefan Nemanja, that it's a freak, that it should bring down that monument as soon as possible. By saying such things and writing about the Holy Sava, and it is not the unfortunate Milojko Pantić from his head, they poured them to him, as in the cup they poured beside him, so the man without consciousness and completely such things was written, and they would then bring down the temple of the Holy Sava. I would, if I could, forbid them to enter the temple of the Holy Sava now, at any temple of the SPC to enter such monsters. They're the devils. That he said that St. Sava never left any work behind. Well, what did you leave behind besides empty bottles, and what are you following up on the character rate and the misdemeanor of that thief, Dragan Gilas? What did you write? What will make you remember the generations coming, except for what you've lost and when you've been commenting on the games? Let's remind him, since he obviously skipped some elementary school classes. That's what elementary school teaches. I understand them, they're very learned people with all two. The one who tried to run him, when they saw the testimony. How's it going? He managed to get more than two from physical. Well, they said, let's get him... Well, they found this government. He has to ask the doctor if he can go to the election. So, all crazy, incompetent, drunk. Most importantly, fair enough. Here, the man turned out to be honest and said: “People, I am unprofessional. “ Indeed, he gathered himself together on that television, so small, and said, “I am unprofessional. I don't know how to run the city. What do these people do to me? What they blackmailed me with. Probably don't get any paper out to be treated for alcohol. A man has to accept it on himself to run for mayor. Imagine, a man who calls himself unprofessional. There, a little plus, he said he didn't know anything, but he said he knew how to pick those people who knew. Well, how come you don't know anything about running anything, what you're running for, you know how to propose professional people? Of course, that would suggest to him, Gilas, whom he would suggest. He himself knows neither where he is, nor who expects him to suggest anything. It's another hoax that goes through Serbian citizens. They say – we chose carefully who could win the election. So they know that they can't win anything in the election, they can just kick a card, which the people would say, if they won those elections. When people see them, they get sick of them. Then they remembered to get someone out of Vladetta, no one else left. They say, "They care for the future of youth." Well, why don't they give young people a chance like Alexander Vukic gave the young on our parliamentary list in this conference? Why don't those young people give them a chance? Why don't they take care of the young, but get the government of Jankovic, the man who's supposed to raise his grandchildren, raise the children. What do children who have completed schools, masters, PhDs who have had enough experience do in companies, foreign or domestic, not give an opportunity to deal with politics, to show what they know, to bring out some of their ideas, some of their visions, some of their modern future Serbia? No, because, in fact, behind all that is the idea that he, the thief, Dragan Gilas, is back in power. Well, perhaps, even that idea of Vladeta Jankovic becoming, imagine that situation, that horror for Belgrade, that he would become mayor, and since a man had to consult with a doctor, he concluded after a few months that he could no longer, give him health, or whatever he did not allow to participate in the country's public life. Because I'm sorry, I could have Dragan Gilas sit down again, she's lauded a billion or more foreign exchange accounts to open out of Serbia. Now, that's the plantation that's being planted in these elections by the citizens. What kind of Unhappi, what Jankovics, what marines. Behind all, Serbian citizens are the biggest thief, tycoon and criminal in this country, Dragan Gilas. The one who failed to explain to us which academy, which school of machinery or which he had already learned how, while you're in power, 619 million won't get you the same millions when you're no longer in power. And then he started to cross without making that kind of millions, and the man wanted to come back. But he can't come back, so he needs to push some of his experts back into emptying what we've done with hard, hard work, hard reforms in the past ten years. I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia will also recognize the relationship well towards Serbian history, and according to Stefan Nemanja, and to the Council of Sava, and to our temples, our sanctities, history, tradition, culture, economy, according to life, towards young people. All this stuff that I've just listed is the opposite of what they're offering us. They're offering us what's already been seen, that again... They said they knew they'd lose April 3rd, normal, April 4th, they'd show how and what to do. They will force themselves to take over, to fight for the victory that Serbian citizens have not given them, but it will not go away because there are no more naive in this country than 2,000 years, when people believed it. You can't, said counterpart Djukanovic, that you have 40, 50% more than they do. What kind of theft? What election? They have far more controllers than the ruling party. Who can steal them? The thieves and the theft are the ones who stole the most. They know best how to steal, how to burn ballots in the National Assembly, how to steal victory in the 2000 elections. They know best how to steal money, they're experts for it. They need a confession to do that, and here I stand for it. I'll just have one last topic, very briefly. Of course, I don't mean to suggest it seriously, but I would suggest, let's say, hypothetically, that the elections be abolished and I believe that this would impress people around the tycoon of Dragan Gilas, Vladite and others. It would be the best idea we could adopt here in the Assembly, end the electoral laws, lift everything that's related to the election, all the conditions, all the signatures. To teach all of this, to abolish the Republic Election Commission, to have one tycoon commission, to have a top tycoon in the country that will tell us who we really are based on a directive of foreign services. They're going to pour into our heads who we actually voted for fictitiously. They're going to tell us who's in some of the elections with them on the commission, because they actually know best. We're all idiots and we don't know anything. We're credentials, sandwichers, stupid, ugly, like this, and that's why it's best for them to tell us who won the election, and because Gilas knows it perfectly with his machine brain... When he shows us that research, then he misses percentages, it's obvious that he needs to be trusted again and given the opportunity to lead the country as such a genius. Of course, this was all a joke. That's not gonna happen. Dragan Gilas will not lead Serbia. After 3 April, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party continued. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12296	The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Glisic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The proposal is proposed by Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12297	This amendment is about what we have been saying and in the previous law, and it's strange that ODIR was looking for something that none of our political entities, no positional, no opposition, and that's a strange situation, that can be voted on by several electoral lists. Of course, it's fixed now. One voter can only vote for one election list. The other thing that's given in the next position is good, and that's especially for small environments where you don't have a large number of voters. If one major party, such as the SNS or the SPS, through the number of signatures they need to run for the list wants to show its strength, so it gets a much larger number of signatures, then it happens that, under the current rules, many others are denied the possibility of finding people who will sign it and now it is envisaged that up to the number of signatures required by the alphabet, these signatories are lined up, and everything else will count as not being signed and then they have a chance to sign another list. Of course, it's their free will and it doesn't happen by any kind of automation. We need to clarify this because many media have sent the wrong message that someone will be able to give full quantities of signatures to someone else. What I want to take advantage of this opportunity, and it's about this amendment in a kind of broader way. There have been conversations here in the tide about people who can sign more lists and that story reminds people who can be members of more parties and that famous moral category of political flyers, which is very problematic with us. Basically, people can freely change political parties and that's normal if they disagree, but it's weird when they always do it by coming from the opposition party level to be members of the positioning party. The People's Network thinks it's high time to put an end to it and that it's necessary for the state to establish a single register of members of political parties, where all parties would be obliged to, as a legal person who has public authority to run the register of their members, deliver it to that unique register that could, by electronic means, be able to see whether any member of the multiple parties is at the same time. So that would be disabled. On the other hand, I think that, in order to prevent flying and that kind of immoral political action, which we have completely let be promoted, and it causes great damage in social life, we should put in the regulation that you cannot become a member of the break at the moment when it is the ruling party. So if you wanted to join that party, you should have done it before it became power. From that moment on, it shouldn't be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12298	By amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we as a dictatorial party accept the amendments to the opposition and thank every MP who does not support the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a constructive dialogue and their desire to contribute to the electoral conditions that are being discussed in Serbia. As a member of a political party, as allowed or defended, I am a man who believes that in order to democratisation society, political parties are the bearers of democracy in one society, there is no need to restrict people from changing political parties, at their own request or measure, but on that later, it is another topic. As is already known, the laws we are now discussing in particular are the result of an inter-party dialogue. One part of the dialogue was without the European Parliament's mediator, and the other was with the mediators. Some of my colleagues have come up with a sharp grudge and even from the ruling structure why we did it with the MEPs, even the former. Well, all of my colleagues can remind you only of the period 2014 and 2015, when Serbia began its economic reforms. At that time, the intermediaries between investors who were to come to Serbia and the Serbian economy were the IMF. We didn't need the IMF for anything else. He was supposed to give us an assessment of the fiscal consolidation measure that we were doing at the time to get, of course, if we pass their exam, we get good grades, investor confidence. Consider a little analoguely and Europarliamentaries. They came here at the call of the former regime with one wish. Their wish was to bring them to power without choice in Serbia, as they did in some other countries, even to us in neighbouring countries. I don't want to mention that someone wouldn't abuse it. When they saw that there was nothing, they accepted to participate in an inter-party dialogue. The wish, meanwhile, for the Serbian Progressive Party was that a part of the public looking at the results achieved by the Serbian Progressive Party and its president, Aleksandar Vukic, in the elections, were convinced that the electoral conditions in Serbia were completely democratic and that indeed the result of the Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandar Vukic was the wish of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let's get this straight. Now, I would just like to point out that some of the former regimes view the results, namely the democratically expressed will of the Serbian citizens in the elections when they vote for the Serbian Progressive Party and Alexander Vukic. You'll always have a lot of these hidden messages from the former regime that you don't need to support Alexander Vukic. If they can't influence the entire people, then one part of our population, let's say which one is quite educated, has a certain level of knowledge and that they should not interfere in any case with voters and citizens who support Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. Well, that's one of the polemics that's been going on in our public since the monument was set up. Everyone already knows I'm talking about Stefan Nemanja's monument. Here first came Vladeta Jankovic, who was spoken of by my dear colleague, with some story that the monument needs to be changed, that he needs to change the location, that he can be in Marinko's bar, I don't know where everything is. I'm not from Belgrade, so I can't even remember all those Belgrade settlements, so don't mind me. I guess it's because there people are unworthy to be in the capital, in a circle of two, to go around that monument, to admire him, because my God, the intellectual elite isn't because, firstly, to mix with them, it's a fascist ideology, I'm going to prove to you that they're fascists in the follow-up of their discussion and that, as a lower education and lower value to move to these settlements, that they don't have to watch what they say, a mockery of monuments. Of course they'll always find an artist, a historian, who's going to challenge it, so they found a lady whose work I don't want to discuss. I believe he's really an artist who's left a mark on Serbian art with his work, but I think what she said is not his time or place. Two exits from this terrible situation, says Irina Subotic, who found Belgrade, is one that stands next to that monument a very clearly written formulation, an entire legend that would explain why this monument is a mockery, why it is bad for Belgrade and why it should not be a place there. Let's say that she looks at the monument as an artist and we get over it. It's about colonial monuments today, which were said to be collapsing, but people said, "We're not going to tear anything down because they've collapsed, but these before us and the Gilas, and how they've collapsed, but then the inscriptions are placed next to the monument." That's where schools are brought in to educate people what colonialism was, how much he destroyed the people, how people turned into slaves and got rich that way. All that can be done, but not that monument is glorific. Did someone say Stefan Nemanja was a colonizer? Did someone say SNS is a colonizer? Did someone say that Serbian citizens are slaves? That's how I interpret it. Why does it matter, a little later. Then he adds that it is not allowed to be considered a great masterpiece and that people gather here, that it brings apples and flowers, because it is only a disgrace to our needy people. That means, if you're not voting for Gilas, you're voting for SNS and Alexander Vukic, you're needed, you're uneducated, you're uncultural, you're unworthy, you're worthless. Hidden, but that's how it is, just beautifully written. The second solution is to remove it as it was done in many other environments. This was especially done with socialist monuments in Budapest, when they found an entire desert part of the city where they placed so-called. monuments. Then they speak for themselves. There's this whole story of what realism is, what socrealism is, what Stalinism is, and who built those monuments. Alexander Vukitch turns out straight to Stalin. So says the former regime, otherwise Europe Nostra, representative of Europe Nostra. Belgrade reportedly has more symbols. I'm not from Belgrade, Belgrade citizens don't mind me doing things. They say one of the symbols of Belgrade's city is the old tram bridge. One president of the Municipality of Sapic dared to say that the bridge should be torn down. What were the former regime's reactions to that? Now I'm telling you to make a comparison between our monuments, the national monuments, which should reflect the spirit of collective unity of a nation, which is necessary for the people to survive and other people's monuments. The old tram bridge is a foreign monument. It was erected in 1942 by Nazi occupiers in order to carry heavy weapons through Sava to the eastern front. It's not our bridge. We inherited it. I'm surprised that, let's say, Dragan Gilas, as former Belgrade mayor, does not know or pretend he doesn't know and says – the idea of taking down a bridge marked by Belgrade. What's the mark of Belgrade? The mark of Belgrade is so-called Brankov Bridge. King Alexander's Bridge, the Nazis took him down in the April bombing in 1941. That bridge was called King Alexander's Bridge. It was opened in December 1934 and was named after then-killed King Alexander. I from the Fireman know that. Dragan Gilas, former mayor of Belgrade, doesn't know that. Let's move on. There are others who would like to defend German monuments. He says, "We are not strangling Belgrade," one Lazovic – Sapic, with open indignity, speaks of these facts and the importance that the bridge has, which survived Nazi destruction. And the Nazis made it. I have nothing against the heroic work of Master Zaric, who saved that bridge, that bridge was necessary to the Belgraders, but what was that bridge for and why it was made? Not only for the transport of weapons, this bridge was used by the Nazis to translate thousands of Jews into NDH and the Old Fair. What doesn't Europe Nostra say about it? What did Savo Manojlovic and Europe Nostra say in a petition directed by Zoran Radojić, mayor of Belgrade, Goran Vesic? He says so - for that bridge, why should we deprive ourselves of the brightest moments of our history? The translation of Jews into NDH the brightest moment of our history? First of all, it's not our history, it's Nazi history. Serbs have always rejected this ideology, even under the occupation of the same Nazis. We had two liberating movements. And they're equating us with the Nazis. And they call Stefan Nemanja a colonizer, Alexander Vukića Stalin. What else does Savo Manojlovic say? Why should we, as a people who have suffered so much, be deprived of one of the symbols of antifascism? Should I repeat the Jews, the Roma, the Serb patriots? Those are their values. The monument to Stefan Nemania is our value. Why are they trying so hard to break those memories, completely undeserved? I think it's a magnificent monument. Because every nation needs something that connects it, something that unites it, that this people survive. Some say it is called the collective spirit of a nation, which reflects the unity of a nation. Among other things, it should be a monument to Stefan Nemanja. You have many things that affect the collective spirit of a nation. There's a church, just remember how they treated the temple of St. Sava when it was over. There's an army. The pride has destroyed our army. There are teams, in any sport. Where were our teams during their government? If they even made it to a World Cup, they'd have gone infamously. They didn't need the collective spirit of a nation because they thought they couldn't rule for long and couldn't steal everything. You also have respected athletes, Novak Djokovic, among other things, is one of those. Why do you think the whole country was behind him? He connects the entire people. How did they treat our sports giants? To remind you, one football star, Dragan Jajic, was arrested as the biggest criminal, photographed, led with handcuffs, as if he were a member of the Earth Clan or the Greater Trouble, only to harm a man who could help save the people in difficult times. That's why they're doing the same thing with Stefan Nemania. It is part of a civil intellectual elite that says Kosovo is an independent state, that Serbia is a genocide state, that Serbs are a genocide people, that the Republika Srpska is a genocide state and that it should disappear. There, it's a former regime that gathers Dragan Gilas around and shows his true face through these little things. Because, imagine, he can't say something directly, but indirectly it takes the citizens of Serbia, according to him and all these statements they were, to be ashamed of being Serbs, to accept everything, whatever they're forced to do, to accept Kosovo's independence, to give up everything, because the shame exists to them by the totally undeserved Đilas, Marinika, Vladeta Jankovic, these artists, every honor for their works of art, Savo Manojlović, Europe nostra. The citizens will surely keep that in mind when they go to the polls. Well, then it's gonna be their people's fault and they're gonna be toothless, illiterate, unprofessional again, because they're losing the election. Remember, this is where my esteemed colleague Martinovic talked about it, when that Djordje Vlah spoke, wrote articles about how Serbia voted for Vukic and SNS. Clear polarization in society wants to be done. A circle of two, and mostly those in that circle in 1943 and 1944 came from the woods, to drive all of these out of here, not as liberators, those honest ones didn't do it, real fighters for the freedom of the Serbian people did it, but these are and their descendants are doing it to us today, nothing else. They are trying to humiliate the rest of the people, trying to forget, to make us forget and to be ashamed of being Serbs, to accept that as a people and a state we do not need to exist, so that they can, through the excuse of intellectual ascension of the people, rob Serbia wherever they arrive, both Dragan Djilas and Savo Manojlovic, Vladeta Jankovic and everyone with them. I think that once again some people will be to blame them for not making the result they expect, and they will never look into their faces, to ask themselves a question -- what their contribution is to why the citizens won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12300	Thank you. National MP Vladan Glisic submitted to the 52nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is proposed by Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12301	The amendment focuses primarily on the opposition proposal from minority parties that should and may have the authority to control the election committee's minutes to win at least 1% of the votes. This is primarily the intention to seriousise the entire election process, in the sense that we do not allow, minority lists will be a number, if each one, as in the previous solution, which did not cross 1% of the vote, would allow them to look for that check of the voter's boards, would extend the election process and prevent it from being brought to any of its purposes. It's something that's perfectly normal in interparty dialogue. As I was informed, it came out to the minority parties that double the number of signatures should be collected than before. So it is not the intention to limit minority parties' ability to participate in the electoral process, but rather to avoid some kind of abuse. That would be the one thing that we all live in and we don't notice happening, on the other hand it's my appeal to fellow opposition colleagues to understand the seriousness of the situation and that we live in a world where the institution of civil protests and the electoral democratic process is dangerously disrupted. We can see in European countries how mass people protest over various things, very justifiable, and the police are counting very brutally with them and these protests end in street riots and do not help the electoral and democratic process, but seriously disrupt them. So citizens are demoted to participate in politics, withdraw from all of it, and only extreme and manipulative elements, on the verge of terrorism, participate. The state there acts as a state terrorist who brutally violates human rights and Serbia is in one paradoxical way, at a time when we are under the question of many things, showed an enviable attitude of tolerance towards those who protest and, with these amendments to electoral legislation, towards those who want to participate in the electoral process to get the most into contact with them. What's important is I don't think we've noticed how quickly we slipped into the situation that after 30 years of multi-partyism we have the idea that it's normal to block the highways, normally block the border crossings and, most of all, break the ballot box normally. It's very dangerous, because it could jeopardize the election process. I call on opposition colleagues not to go in that direction, and I call on the authorities to try to regulate their own way of protest, and in such a way that serious protests become binding on power to determine what people are protesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12302	The word is Viktor Jevtovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12303	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the main postulate to which the SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic, is the fight against crime and corruption at all levels, where there is no and cannot be protected. The proposed amendments to the Anti-Corruption Act are part of the Agreement to improve conditions for holding elections from 29 October 2021, which was concluded in the National Assembly between the political parties of participants, the inter-party dialogue under the auspices of the National Assembly, and where all parties of the opposition bloc accepted the envisaged measures with the recommendations to implement them. This law has come across positive assessments of the European Parliament as well. The responsible policy conducted by the SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, shows consistency and all of the democratic principles, which we could not dream of at the time of the yellow tycoon rule, led by Dragan Gilas. And speaking of corruption, I can't help but look at the list of diletes that are synonym for corruption, and they're also on the list of tycoon candidates, and all together on the payroll of yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas. If we start only by the evil of the famous Zdravko Ponos, who, as a joystick in the hands of the NATO Pact, devastated the Serb army, reduced it to the level of the hunting society, humiliating all those heroes who laid their lives on the altar of the country, while he today lays the stone foundation for the building on Vrakar. To make the paradox bigger, his former Defence Minister, Dragan Sutanovac, claims to be the same, while at the head of the General Staff, tried to spy for foreign services, as also recorded in the Serbian Army archives. They also offer us the famous official Miroslav Aleksic, who, instead of the election list, should be found in "Vujaklia" as a synonym for corruption and theft, because the people know very well that while he was head of Tristenik municipality, he has tasked citizens with banks in the name of imaginary purchase of four container gas stations. The city's cash register has run out of steam. The consequences of this mob venture, the citizens of Triestenik, feel today and day. Not to mention the state register made of by the family fund, or family company with wife and father-in-law, Ljubish Knezevic, and thus pumped up huge money. But what else do you expect from a man whose boss is Vuk Jeremic, involved in a corruption affair with world thieves Patrick Ho and Tidian Gadija, who are already in prison and who are receiving hundreds of thousands of euros from Qatar, a country known for funding Islamic terrorists. Also, there is a newly-roasted candidate for Belgrade Mayor Vladeta Jankovic, who himself admitted that he is not professional in leading the capital. Bestidno gives scandalous statements that the monument of Stefan Nemanje should be torn down, and Lesce stops. I don't know what his dead people are guilty of, but to transfer them to Marinck's bar or Borch. So with seasonal worker "Multicoma", Marinika Tepic "Morović", it degrades not only Serbian history, but also citizens of these wonderful settlements, because it is obvious that away from exclusive restaurants in the city centre, the tycoon candidates have not even moved away. They would tear down the temple of St. Sava because it's probably blocking their view from the terrace. Now slowly masks fall and the real interest is seen and the goal of Dragan Gilas and his listeners who get a bigger bonus on their accounts for the most disgusting lie. There are also parties "green" that were not even important in the programme to preserve the environment until last year, but only how to reach Rockefeller's ATM and possibly violently come to power. This is the group of thieves and con artists whose only plan and programme is to dissipate everything that Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have done for Serbia – hundreds of kilometers of roads, hospitals, salary increases, pensions, minimum wage now amounting to 35,000 dinars, responsibility to pensioners and assistance to young people of 100 euros, 250 new factories, reduced unemployment rates from 26% to 9%. These are concrete results. Who can mate them? Certainly not this tycoon second-Serbian conglomerate, convinced that the government belongs to them at birth and that everyone else should bow down to them, allergic to everything worth to the Serbian people, as well as to the state, and would like to turn everything into a faceless mass without meaning, name and any value in which the subjects remain silent and suffer while Djilas, Tepic, Šolak and their cups steal and boast. The biggest disturbance in the plan is Alexander Vukic, as they point out, aware that he is their insurmountable obstacle to repressing the Serbian people. Therefore, even degutantly, indignantly and ominously on Gilas's tycoon media, they offer obvious material evidence of the threat to the physical liquidation of Alexander Vukic by one of the largest criminal clans, led by Radoje Zicer, because it is their only way to stop Serbia, which thanks to Alexander Vukic today is the first to direct foreign investment, which is reflected by the whole world, which is unconstitutionally moving forward and does not withdraw from the scum whose only goal is to preserve its millions and re-drawn Serbia in the mire of hopelessness. All the best news is that in Serbia, in a year and two months, there was not a single mob murder. This is the result of President Vukic's brave policy. This is what tycoons and thieves have never tried to achieve, but the people of Serbia sees well all their senseless policies whose only plan and programme is robbery and corruption. That is why on April 3rd, the same nation will receive self - merited contempt. Serbian citizens are well aware of who is fighting unwaveringly for their interest, for our children and our Serbia, who is not withdrawing from the false elite, or from the threat of bullets, whose courage and determination make Serbia finally the best. The people of Serbia know it's Alexander Vukic. Therefore for the people, for all of us, there is no retreat before the worst, and there is no surrender, for for us surrender is no option. It is a promise by Alexander Vukic and Serbia that he united in the fight for the future. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12304	Thank you. Parliamentarians Kamberi, Imamovic, Kucevic, Beqiri, Hodzic and Bajrami submitted together to the 55th amendment. Parliamentarians Kamberi, Imamovic, Kučević, Beqiri, Hodzic and Bajrami submitted together to the 75th amendment. No one wants a word. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to – Proposal for a Law on Financialisation of Political Activities. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Glisic, Kamberi, Imamovic, Kučević, Beqiri, Hodzic, Bajrami, Milicevic, Paunovic, Radovic and Markovic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Vladan Glisic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12305	The amendment came to meet the opposition to get 5% more funding from public sources for the election campaign. Of course, in general, it will be reduced by 5% in the post-election section. We, by the way, are becoming more expensive and this is the trend in the whole world, and that's what elections turn into a kind of spectacle, a social one, and that's how they come up with what's the essence of the choice. The point of choice is that from time to time society changes people who manage serious processes. What should be a rational way of designing all elections is for us to think about how to get to the most responsible positions the most capable and qualitative people. When you set the sense of choice, and when you realize that the elections are the backbone of one society's sovereignty, then it becomes clear to you that everything that we live today, with expensive videos, campaigns, with people who carry the entire campaign of a political entity, that all of this is spent by huge means, that marketing agencies make a lot of money, the budget gets damaged, and the will of citizens is not really defined rationally, but many emotional and irrational things are something that affects the elections. The choices in a well-ordered and healthy society should be a boring process of choosing the most capable people to come to the most responsible places. That is why it is necessary to return it to those waters that once existed in the cradle of parliamentaryism, which is the UK that had strict restrictions on the funds that could be spent in the election campaign. We should start thinking that way, because it's unwarranted to spend a lot of money on elections, and in fact, spend it on marketing agencies, on the media, making a spectacle of it. Often, conflicts between candidates are much more brutal than they should be, while this should be one boring national process of choosing those most qualified, most qualified to solve social problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12306	The 25th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Glisic. He's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12307	This is the amendment that delivered Transparency to Serbia. In Article 25(2), it adds a new item 3 which reads – when no funds are used as an electoral guarantee in the possession of a political entity to the electoral guarantee, the rules laid down in this contribution law are applied. Why does it matter? Because in this way, it allows those who want money to influence the electoral process to say what they could not contribute to giving to a political entity in the elections could through an electoral guarantee when it is not tolerated by a political entity itself. So this electoral guarantee could actually be some kind of illegal and illegal influence on the electoral process, because it could be financed by a political organisation, a single entity, and thus violate the law. So I think the government was supposed to adopt this amendment, but this is also related to what I was just talking about, which is that when you put a lot of money into the electoral process, when you turn the election process into a spectacle, media manipulation, then that's where various informal sources of power that affect it appear. One of these is a tycoon structure that can thus buy the citizens' electoral will. Of course, we have a very clear situation that has lasted for 20 years in Serbia and those 10 years before that were not a happy solution, but these 20 years we have been able to be less brutal in the name of this situation, too much influence of Euro-Atlantic structures on our political processes. It is known to them that it is much easier for them to influence our society than five, six elected political leaders who control their parties as private firms, that it is very easy for their ambassadors to use their multinational corporations for money and all other influences to influence our electoral process, and of course, that it is easy for domestic tycoons. That's why I'm going back to it so we're going to have to very seriously and radically limit money in the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12308	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic, Snezana Paunovic, Dijana Radovic and Ugljesa Markovic. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djorda Milicevic, Snezana Paunovic, Dijana Radovic and Ugljesa Markovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has a proposing representative, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12309	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. I want first of all to thank the representatives of the ministry and the ministers for understanding and understanding our goodwill and the goal we wanted to achieve by proposing this amendment. In Article 28, point 1 of the word – until 15 April of the current year – is replaced by words – by 30 April of the current year. What exactly is this about? On the submission of the report, the deadline of 15 April of the current year as the deadline for submitting the annual report to the Agency was defined by an earlier law adopted in 2011 when the deadline for the production and delivery of the annual accounts was 28 February of the current year. However, since the deadline for drawing up the final account and handing over the Agency for Business Registers is now 31 March of the current year, then the deadline for submitting the report to the Corruption Prevention Agency should be at least 30 April because it takes more time to produce reports that are in their nature and contained extensive, especially when it comes to major political parties. Certainly, because of the above facts, the 15-day deadline for drawing up the report and obtaining the opinion of the authorised auditor on the report is not sufficient, so that the amendment proposes that the deadline be extended by another 15 days, i.e. that the deadline should be 30 April of the current year instead of 15 April of the current year. So, it is a clear goal that the amendment wanted to achieve, and I thank you once again for having the understanding to accept the amendment. I just want to comment on a few more things at the very end. Since someone has mentioned a dictatorial regime a question arises – when some politicians in Serbia like Vuk Jeremic realized that this ruling coalition and that Aleksandar Vukic is a dictator and that this ruling coalition is a dictatorial regime? In 2013, at the end of 2013, when he voted for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, will I remind you, it was the beginning of the reform course of the Government of Serbia, or did he realize the moment he went from New York to Belgrade in 2016, so he asked for support to be SNS' presidential candidate, right, 2017? Then when he failed, he realized that this regime was dictatorial. Then the donations from this Bruce Lee give them to Hong Kong. When Bruce Li is arrested, Hong Kong is looking for a new mentor who will have money and capital to support that political option, of course hidden behind Dragan Gilas' back. What is being announced tonight as spectacular among other things is that I do not know which media is being shown how some votes from Republika Srpska are being brought, how citizens are being pressed, etc. Now I want to remind you and take you back to 2016. Is this what was done in 2016, you see this is a press conference, and very quickly all those who came from one political party when additional votes are necessary to cross the census one political option, in this case DSS and Dveri? Isn't that the pressure on voters? Now I'm going to tell you what the result of this kind of pressure on voters is. At five repeat polling stations in Backo Topoli, the list won 3.5% in the first round that year. In the second round, 23.27% of votes were won. In Sremski Karlovci, 1.31%. After the re-elections, 19.02% of the vote. In Jagodina, 1.63%. After the re-elections, 26.63%. In Nis Panteleus 3.85%. After the re-elections of 15.9% and let's say Vranje 2.71%). After the re-elections of 12, 57%. Did he put this pressure on the voters? It definitely is. Can this be defined as pressure on voters? Definitely can. You know how, when we speak, someone just said the former regime, we're actually talking about one party, and all this stuff that's happened is the remains of that DS. This DS, led by Gilas, has reached about 0.9%. Now they've divided into so many political parties that they don't even know how many there are anymore and each of them has zero. When you add up all of those zeroes, you're going to get zero again on April 3rd. You can multiply them and add them up, but you'll definitely get zero. It's the frockles and remains of DS or DOS. There's something very interesting about information that has appeared in the media. Since they themselves, I suppose, know it best and I will now read it to you – says the Council of the Free Serbia Assembly sent a letter to its membership informing them of why they will not co-operate with the United Serbia coalition, which among other things is the SAA, DS, the People's Party and the Movement of Free Citizens. According to them, the main reason for the shooting of this co-operation is mistrust with SSP leader Dragan Gilas. It also states that there are two options for them to withdraw from the election process or to agree with the Green-left coalition "We must". The council called on membership to plead within the next 24 hours. They say -- for the past 15 months, every conversation in the opposition has marked the strongest opposition SP party, among other things because Marinika Tepic has the highest rating. Despite the agreement by all parties in the alliance, including a party I mentioned to Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas announced without any consultations two days before the end of the survey that Ponoš is their candidate. At each next meeting, we experienced unpleasantness, not just us, but other opposition parties. So that is their opinion, and they know themselves. A little while ago, someone said the citizens would recognize it. The citizens have certainly recognized and I am convinced that they will correctly evaluate the results of the ruling coalition's work. And the citizens also recognized what I was talking about, and the ones I was talking about, they know themselves best, and it's enough just to have these findings and to see what kind of people they're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12310	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on the prevention of corruption. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Vladan Glisic, a report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as opinions from the Government on the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Vladan Glisic submitted to the 1st amendment. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12311	And this is one of the amendments Serbia's "Transparency of Serbia" asked to enter the assembly procedure. There is a change in Article 1st paragraph 2 and the whole position would be this way if it were adopted - the provisions of Article 4 of this article do not apply to MPs and MPs of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, representatives of the Assembly of Local Self-Government Units, and this is now an addition that should be adopted, but it is not - and city municipalities that do not serve as president, vice president of the Assembly and president of the Assembly Working Body. The interpretation of the law on local self-government often occurs that city councils are not seen as council members, i.e. as units of local self-government, and here they need to be classified in order to make that distinction when someone comes on behalf of, since the MP, the committee member and similar people who are political activists and represent some ideas when they appear in public, it is normal that they do not have to determine whether they appear on behalf of the authorities, who are part of or on behalf of their political organisation. However, this is not, of course, in the case of the president and vice president of the Assembly or the president of the working body who would have had to make that distinction. In any case, this reminds us of another thing that's going on, it's about something that's been going on since the time, as SNS colleagues say, the yellow regime, that the city municipalities in Belgrade have been completely detached, thrown out of the level of local self-government, and that needs to be changed, and the SNS hasn't changed even though it was 10 years old to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12312	Thank you. The Word has a National MP, Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12313	I thank the chairman. A respected minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I'd like to get some things straight from the start. The citizens' electoral will is not bought, the electoral will of citizens is theirs and they are the ones who decide who they will support, and for support they are decided on on the basis of results, based on the programme offered and any insinuation that their support can be bought is just proof of how much they claim to buy. In recent cases, we have seen attacks that have been linked to helping young people in terms of 100 euros, as a form of purchase of their will, which is pure and just proof of the lack of ideas for these people to fight for the votes of citizens. What is important to say and my colleagues have well described the opposition's candidates who don't care about the election, they don't even care about the election conditions, because they were the ones who asked the negotiators to come on the side. Then they refused to participate in those negotiations, because they themselves are aware that they have no support among the citizens. The only thing they expected was for someone on the side to stand up to them, to tell them -- here's what you have the right to rule and rule Serbia, and it's not the people who will decide on it anymore. We are also here today to discuss election laws change sets, all in order to help them to appear in these elections, to get support, and even this story about the signatures of those 10,000 they need to collect. If they had 10,000 signatures, they wouldn't buy parties and strangers. They would probably form their parties, not Dragan Gilas, a loan to his 50,000-euro farmer to buy the party. Jeremic would not buy from August's Aleksic party and therefore return to Serbia's political life, where he spread his lies and demagogy, of course. Of course, there are their pens and trustees who run for elections now as some new hopes, some new faces, as if citizens are under some amnesia and do not remember these people at all, where they call and say that no one has the right to take people's fields, take land, take salaries and pensions, and finally say that they take the future. What did they do to young people in Serbia? What were they doing between 2000 and 2012? Are they aware of how much they took from the future to young generations, that these young people who left the country unfortunately made the largest export category out of Serbia to which they were proud, and now when someone is building Serbia, when it restores hope and faith and when young people return to Serbia, the first accuses a youth of being expelled from Serbia. They forgot, especially General Ponoš, how he showed his patriotism by melting tanks, how he showed his patriotism by degraded the army and disabling himself to perform his basic tasks. Of course, in order to justify their facts, they had to hire a wooden lawyer named Pitiæ, who is now probably trying to position the tycoon more to sell. Then, of course, he's trying to defend all of their candidates and feathered women, where he really brings out some incredible nonsense and facts that I personally had to look back on, so when he talks about the government, they honor the government that it's old, and the cast of voters is category 60 plus. So he demeans people who have recognized in the SNS that they are fighting, and they are the ones who are asking for old people to be removed from the right to vote, because they are probably afraid of their will, and the government itself has admitted that he is unable to lead the city of Belgrade and is unable to carry out the task that is ahead of him. A Croatian passport is being attacked for Ponos. The man clearly showed his works, which he preferred a passport. In the end, the mention of the Knin Serbs that we have most of the voters of the people who have been displaced from the territory of Knina. Well, of course they support us, because unlike those who were ashamed to mark these sad moments in Serbian history, we remember them, we are here to help those Serbs. We build apartments, solve their issues, build factories, and for all these reasons, they will also give support to President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, above all to Alexander Vukic, a man who works tirelessly. Today at the opening of the Winter Olympics, he went to encourage our athletes, where we show that we have good results and he works parallelly in Serbia's interest, because he communicates with world leaders, negotiates and talks about new meetings, discusses new joint projects that will provide a future for these children. On the other hand, we look at Gilas who ran faster to London and laughs at the Serbian people, where he says -- well, Southampton's in England, I'm in London, you put two and two together, and you'll know what it's about. We know what this is about, you went to fill in the suitcases you emptied, maybe check your secret account, check out the state of it, see if any euro has grown on the bill, and take instructions on what to do in Serbia, because the only strategy you have, not to go to elections and offer something to the citizens, but you're getting ready for April 4th, and it's Ponoš not hiding, who said we shouldn't defend the election will of the citizens on the streets. So you will not defend it, for the citizens will say their will in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12314	Thank you. At the very end, the word has a minister, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12315	Thank you, Chairman. So, these few laws that concern the election, we talked about them today in particular, but certainly the law amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and substitutes that we significantly increased profits, because that is something they deserve, it also deserves attention, but it was somehow in the second plan, because we considered this set of electoral laws as a priority given the upcoming laws. Therefore, the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, on the Selection of People's MPs, the Law on Local Elections, the Law on the Financing of Political Activities and the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Completion of the Law on Extrapared Procedure. These six laws will significantly help the electoral process that is ahead of us to show Serbia in an even more democratic light, with an even greater degree of transparency and above all I want to thank the people who wrote, prepare these legislative proposals, Prof. Dr. Dejan Djurdjevic, who led the Working Group to prepare these electoral laws, which is indeed one of the most recent experts in Serbia when it comes to this type of electoral matter. Of course, co-workers from the Ministry who sit here all the time and on Wednesday and today with me and who have spent the past few months really prepared these legislative proposals for almost 24 hours, and to all people who certainly contributed to all of you MPs, your discussion, an extremely harsh criticism that was not always in a positive direction, but you simply wanted to express your dissatisfaction with both the opposition and MPs of the ruling majority. On the other hand, thanks to all the actors in our political life who were interested in this electoral matter, who gave significant comments and objections to these draft laws during the public debate period. Serbia will indeed be proud of this period when we are in this difficult situation and when some want to cause tension in the country and some unstable political situation, we have shown maximum seriousness, we as the ruling majority. President Vukic, along with a team in the government of the Republic of Serbia, wanted to show that Serbia wants to come up with a compromise, that we will solve all problems and any ambiguities, any conflicts on the political scene, in Serbia's political life through institutions. The street is never, must never and should not be a place where political arrangements are made. Through the institutions, at the table, diplomatically, with the hand provided, with many compromises, it is a policy offered primarily by the SNS and, of course, we as the majority institution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with our President Vukic. With all, indeed, thanks to you all for making a maximum good and maximum contribution to this debate, I call on the citizens of Serbia to be as careful as possible, especially those who will be involved in the electoral process within election bodies, election committees, to be careful and to really follow what is going on in the election day. The election process is the process of all of us and it is not something concerning political parties or a small number of people. Anyone who goes to the election that day should be one kind of controller. I was talking about how many oppositions are now, I mentioned a minimum number of 16,000 opposition controllers. That's one starting number. Of course these people have a lot more, there's a lot more space. I would, as someone who is also at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and during the referendum, follow what it is from opposition remarks, warn exactly the people of the SNS, the SNS controllers in these elections. We're the ones who have to watch the election boards, during election day, so that something doesn't steal, and by chance, on the other hand, doesn't present us as our failure, as our irregularity. That's why I think the only ones who need to worry about the upcoming elections are actually SNS controllers and activists. Consider, on the other hand, that someone wants to get to the authorities at all costs, they want to get to the means that they can afford, which are so far unattainable for them. Thank you again for your pawning. I think you'll be as proud as all of us who worked and prepared these bill proposals. This is something Serbia will remember, and after the April 3rd elections, I think that we will all end up being satisfied as a serious society as to how mature, democratic, transparent we are and how legitimacy is something that stands before the name of Serbia when it comes to the regulation of our society. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-04-0.u12316	I thank Minister Obradovic, and thank the government for this debate. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday, February 4, 2022, starting at 18:00 a.m. as a day for voting on the agendas of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to deciding on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I pray they put their cards in the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 175 MPs present, that is, most of the total number of MPs present, and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Proposal for a law on the election of the President of the Republic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the election of the President of the Republic, in principle. Final vote: total - 180, for - 180. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you he's a member of 37. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the date of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Final vote: total - 183 for - 183. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. I put to the vote the draft law on the election of the President of the Republic, in general. Final vote: total - 183 for - 183. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the election of the President of the Republic. Proposal for a bill on the selection of Members of Parliament. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the selection of MPs, in principle. Final vote: total - 183 for - 183. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving to a decision in the amendments. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Glisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of - 183 for -two, v -one, abstention - one, did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Kamberi, Imamovic, Kučević, Beqiri, Hodzic and Bajrami submitted the amendment to Article 115. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of - 183, v - five, did not vote 178. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 181. The bill provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 181 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put the draft law on the selection of MPs, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 182, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the selection of MPs. We move to the 3rd point – Proposal for a Law on Local Elections. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on local elections to the vote, in principle. Final vote: total – 183 for – 183. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Kamberi Imamovic, Kucevic, Beqiri, Hodzic and Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 183, v – six, did not vote – 177. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians: Kamberi, Imamovic, Kučević, Beqiri, Hodzic and Bajrami together submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 183, v - nine, did not vote – 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's a 100. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 181 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I'm putting the draft bill on local elections in general. Final vote: total – 183 for – 183. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on local elections. We move to item 4 - Proposal for a law on financing political activities. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the financing of political activities, in principle. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 181 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. On Article 25 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs Kamberi, Imamovic, Kučević, Beqiri, Hodzic and Bajrami together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 183, versus – seven, did not vote – 176. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Glisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Final vote: total – 183 for – two, not voted – 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milicevic, Paunovic, Radovic and Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 10, no vote – 173. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 51. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 181 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put the draft law on funding political activities in general. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 180, not votes – three. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the financing of political activities. We move to point 5 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Anti-Corruption Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 181 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. National MP Vladan Glisic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – one, no vote – 182. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 181 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 182, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. We move to the 6th point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on non-partisan procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the decision on the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on non-partisan procedure, in principle. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 180, not votes – three. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 177 did not vote – six. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on non-parony proceedings, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 182, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the law on non-partisan proceedings. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly has also carried out a review of the draft law referred to in points 7 to 10 of the agenda in principle, and since the amendments to the National Assembly are not submitted in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure only decide in the proposals of the law in general. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I put the bill on social entrepreneurship, in general. Final vote: total – 183 for – 183. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on social entrepreneurship. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 182, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on General Use Matters, in general. Final vote: total – 183 for – 183. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on cases of general application. I'm putting the bill on amending the Arms and Ammunition Act, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 182, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Arms and Ammunition Act. 11th Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banca Intesa a.d. Belgrade, Raiffeisen banka a.d. Belgrade, Commercial Banka a.d., Sberbank Serbia a.d., OTP banka Serbia Stock Company Novi Sad and Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d. Ljubljana according to the Public Enterprise "Srbigas". Before moving to a decision, I remind you, that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on laws governing public borrowing by majority of the votes of all MPs. I'm putting this bill to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 181 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you, he's a 17th-grade member. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force the following day from the date of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 180, not votes – three. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 181 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted, passed the bill. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing the International Investment Bank. Point 12 - Proposal for a law on the approval of an agreement on the establishment of an International Investment Bank. Before moving to a decision, I remind you of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and arrangement and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming an agreement on the establishment of an International Investment Bank, in principle. Final vote: total – 183 for – 183. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Article 3 The bill provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – International Treaties". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 181 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. Now I'm putting the bill to the vote, in general. Final vote: total – 183 for – 183. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. We now move to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 13 to 22 of the agenda), so I would remind you that under Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on laws governing public borrowing and conclusion, as well as confirming international contracts with the majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty relating to an unsecured loan of up to 400,000 euros, with insurance by the Multi-Tender Investment Guarantee Agency in order to finance certain construction services by Bechtel Enka UK Limited, which operates in Serbia via Bechtel Enka UK Limited The Belgrade Branch for the purposes of the business company "Corridori Serbia" d.o.o. Belgrade with regard to the construction of the infrastructure corridor of the E-761 section of Pojate - Preljina (Moravski Corridor) between the Republic of Serbia represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance as a loanee and J.R. MORGAN AG as Agent and JPMORGAN Chase BANK, N.A., LONDON BRANCH as the original mandated manager of the Corporate and Investment Bank, Raiffeisen Bank International AG and Santander Bank N.A. as Mandate leading arrangements and Caixabank, S.A. and UBS Switzerland AG as the Leading Arrangements and Banco Santander, S.A., Caixabank, S.A., Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London Branch, Raiffeisen Bank International AG and UBS Switzerland AG as original lenders, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 182, for – 179 did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has accepted, passed the bill. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Credit Arrangements of up to 203,775,000 euros provided by the China Export & Credit Insurance Corporation for the financing of the first phase of the Central Channelisation System of the City of Belgrade project, represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower, BNP PARIBAS SA and UNICREDIT BANK AG, as an Agent and BNP PARIBAS SA, as an ESA Agent, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 178, did not vote – four. I find that the National Assembly has accepted, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty (The Climate Change Resistance and Irrigation Programme in Serbia - Phase II), between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 183 for – 178, did not vote – four. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of all votes. I put to the vote, the draft law confirming the loan agreement of the solid waste programme in Serbia, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 182, for – 180, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I'm putting it to the vote, the draft law confirming the Treaty on Credit Arrangement No. CRS 1022 01 A between the French Development Agency, as a Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, as a Borrower, for the realisation of the solid waste programme in Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 182, for – 179, no votes – three. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote, the draft law confirming the Treaty of Loans (Project for the construction of broadband communication infrastructure in rural areas 2) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 182, for – 179 did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote, the draft law confirming the Treaty on Credit Arrangement of 203,400,928 euros between the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance, as a Borrower, arranged by the BANK OF CHINA SRBIA A.D. BELGRADE as the Authorised Chief Agreement with the BANK OF CHINA LIMITED HUNGARIAN BRANCH as an agent and BANK OF CHINA LIMITED HUNGARIAN BRANCH as the Original Borrower, in general. I conclude the vote: total – 182, for – 178, did not vote – four. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am voting on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for a Loan for a Preferred Customer for the Project of Construction of a Fast Traffic Station Novi Sad – Ruma ("Fruskogorski Corridor") between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance as a Borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a Borrower, in general. I conclude the vote: a total of 182, for – 180, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 2106 (2021) between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for Project Loan - Centre for Dual Education Training, in general. I conclude the vote: a total of 182, for – 180, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision No 1/2021 of the Stabilisation and Association Council of the EU and of Serbia amending the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, replacing its Protocol 3 on the definition of "produced products" and methods of administrative co-operation, in general. I conclude the vote: a total of 182, for – 181, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint single search on proposals for decisions of item 23 and 24 of the agenda, before moving to a decision, I would remind you that, according to Article 205 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises most of the votes of all national affairs in electoral jurisdiction. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members of the National Council for Higher Education. I conclude the vote: a total of 182, for – 181, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect members of the National Council for Higher Education by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the National Higher Education Council in the election and wish them success in their work. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing members of the Management Board of the national accreditation and quality assurance body in higher education. I conclude the vote: a total of 182, for – 180, did not vote – two. I also find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Management Board of the National Authority for Accreditation and Security in Higher Education by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the board of directors on the election and wish them success in their future work. Ladies and gentlemen, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly.
