ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-09-0.u12379	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the tenth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Today's Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is attended by Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister Jasmina Vasovic, Minister of European Integration Maja Popovic, Minister of Justice, Gordana Komic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, Jasmina Vasović, President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Snezana Markovic, President of the Constitutional Court, Branko Stamenkovic, Deputy Prosecutors' Association of the Republic of Public Prosecutors, members of the Working Party for the Development of the Act of the Republic of Serbia, Judge of the Republic of Serbia Snezana Bjelogrlic, President of the Association of Judges of Serbia, Lidija Komlen Nikolic, President of the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors of Serbia, Vladan Petrov, Judge of the Constitutional Court, member of the Venice Commission, Vladimir Vinš, Deputy Minister of Justice of Justice of Justice, Goran Ilic, Deputy President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Zagreb, Deputy Minister of the Republic of Zagreb. Allow me to welcome all present guests on your behalf and in my name. Dear People's MPs and distinguished guests, I convened the 10th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session on the basis of Article 119(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to declare the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Law implementing the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Eighth Special Session in the 12th Assembly, held on 30 November 2021, adopted the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by two-thirds of the total number of MPs, passed the Constitutional Act on the implementation of the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and adopted the Decision on the calling of a Republic referendum in order to confirm the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I also remind you that, in accordance with Article 11(1) and Article 42(1), Article 1 The law on referendums and the People's Initiative decisions in the binding referendum shall be taken if voted for by the majority of the citizens who came out in the territory for which the referendum was called, that the act is considered as the adopted day of the referendum on which the citizens decided to confirm the act and to be declared in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I point out that Article 203 is Article 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the Act amending the Constitution, which was confirmed in the Republic referendum, enters into force when it is declared by the National Assembly. Given the fact that, according to the overall results of the Republic referendum, the Republic Election Commission found that on 4 February 2022 in the Republic referendum, in order to confirm the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by rounding the yes vote, 1,189,460 voters, which makes up most of the voters out of the vote, the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia agrees with Article 203. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is considered adopted. Dear People's MPs, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the huge business of constitutional change once more before the Act is declared. Serbia has made a major step in reforming the rule of law and independence of the judiciary, and I am sure that what we have done is in the deep interest of the Republic of Serbia and of all its citizens. Of course, I thank the citizens who voted, the MPs and the members of the government and, of course, the members of the Working Group, the independent associations, the professional associations, the university professors on the efforts that were made to make such an important step forward after a long, long time. Dear People's MPs and distinguished guests, given that they have acquired all the conditions laid down in the Constitution and the law, pursuant to Article 203, paragraph 9. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 42(1) The Law on Referendum and People's Initiative The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia declares the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the National Assembly at the Eighth Special Session in the 12th Assembly, held on 30 November 2021, and confirmed at a republican referendum held on 16 January 2022. On the basis of Article 205. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 148 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, declares the Constitutional Law implementing the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which brought the National Assembly to the Eighth Special Session in the 12th Assembly, held on 30 November 2021. I want to remind you once again that this is a special session and that there is no debate about this. This is an act of solemn declaration. If anyone was getting ready to discuss it, I'll have to disappoint you. Once again, before the session is concluded, I would like to congratulate you on declaring the Act of Amendment to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law to implement the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It will remain as an amannet of this calls to the National Assembly, that this is one example of the fact that the current government has given up the works of its powers, especially when it comes to human beings, and that is why I think that the value of all this is so much and greater. I am concluding the 10th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Before we finish, I just want to remind you that, in accordance with the preparations for holding early parliamentary elections and before the day when the National Assembly is disbanded, for the need to hold extraordinary parliamentary elections, we may be able to organise another session of the National Assembly in order to adopt the necessary laws and certain decisions that are important for the functioning of the next National Assembly until the next assembly is able to continue work. Like I said, I'm closing the session. I invite you to listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. )
