ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure, and, exceptionally, for Monday, beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in a given agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with the minutes of the 16th and 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly and the 10th special session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Affairs' Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 16th Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly, held on February 2, 3rd and 4th 2022. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 160, for – 155, did not vote – five. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 16th Extraordinary Session in the 12th Assembly by majority. I am voting on the minutes of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, held on 9 February 2022. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 163, for – 161, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the minutes of the 17th extraordinary session in the 12th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 10th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, held on 9 February 2022. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 163, for – 161, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority votes the Record of the tenth special session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament with a session of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, the following Dn e n e d: Point 1. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Interim Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years old, which is paid for financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, the COVID-19 disease caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, which was filed by the government. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that they have been invited to attend Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, and Slavica Savicic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Before I open the search, I would just like to point out once again that today we will have two meetings of the National Assembly, that this first session will be over by 15.00 hours and then we will have another session dedicated to the election of the Supervisory Board. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I am opening a principle search on the draft law supplementing the Law on the temporary register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years old, which is being paid for financial assistance to mitigate the effects of the pandemic COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. Before the promoter gets his word, I want to thank him for sharing the flowers with the ladies, but I want to express a protest as to why only the ladies who are in love today are Valentine's Day. We're expecting a man's particular gift from the finance ministry. Here you go. The proposer's representative has a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12403	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The honourable MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, first of all, it was not my idea, it was a common idea for all of us SNS MPs and I want to thank my younger colleagues for their help and support, and we just wanted to thank all the MPs simply, of course, to mark the Holy Trifun, but also to thank them both for their energy and commitment and responsibility, for all those moments that we have spent here in Parliament together, since this is the last session in this session and thank us very much once again. Today there is an extremely important law in front of you, a law that regulates the payment of additional financial assistance to all our young people from 16 to 29 years of age. We'll start this payment in June. So, 1, 2, 3 June of this year, our young people are expected to expect another 100 euros from the state of Serbia. The applications will start on May 16th and will last until May 31st in the same way we did for these 100 euros that were paid just ten days ago. What is important is that all those who have applied for the first 100 euros should not apply for these additional 100 euros. In total, you know, a million 59 thousand 411, believe it or not, over a million of our young people have received assistance and support from the 100-euro state of Serbia. So, they have no need for this new law to apply, they will automatically get this help, but all those who turned 16 in the meantime, all those who have won the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia will have the right to apply. Applications for a new 100 euros from 16 to 31 May, 1, 2, 3 June, we will keep our promise of pay and transfer that money to the accounts of all those who apply and those who, I say, have already received 100 euros. For us, this assistance is extremely important, you have seen the reactions of young people. So we wanted not only to mitigate the negative consequences of Kovid – 19, not only to show them how important they are to us and how important our concern for the future of Serbia is, but we wanted to show in this way and the strength of our public finances, the good situation in our register, that no one was forgotten. I will remind you in the last two years of the biggest and most severe economic crisis caused by the Kovida pandemic – 19, our country has singled out 8.7 billion euros. So, 8.7 billion euros, over 18% of our GDP to help and economics, to help citizens as well. We have fulfilled every promise we have made in the dinar and in the day and shown how strong our country is, how responsible we are, how stable our public finances are, and this is a picture of a completely different Serbia, Serbia that wins in the economy as never before. With this we also want to continue and this payment to young people is another confirmation of the successful and responsible economic policy we have been carrying out since 2014. Let me also remind you, we also paid 20,000 dinars last week to the accounts of all our oldest citizens. It is the single greatest aid that has ever been paid to our oldest citizens. So, once again, we showed our concern for them with great gratitude for the support they gave us for the reforms we've been carrying out since 2014, but we also showed that we're keeping the promise we make in the dinar and in the day and that promise we made to the pensioners too. If you look at the last two years, therefore, since the payment of 100 euros in 2020, last year 30 plus 30, plus 20 euros for all our adult citizens, 50 euros for all pensioners last year, we paid 60 euros for all the unemployed, for those of our fellow citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija 100 euros, if they are unemployed another 100 euros, 3,000 dinars for all those who were vaccinated until 1 May of last year. So, the huge aid to the citizens of Serbia, to add the minimum earnings that we have paid to our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to entrepreneurs, therefore, to our economy, to the guarantee schemes that we have defined, moratorium and to the payment of loans. So, in a serious way, we have approached the reduction of the negative consequences of Kovid – 19 and that is why we are here today. In the past year and 2020, therefore, two years when we look at cumulatively, two of the most difficult years in terms of the economy for all mankind, we have had the highest, highest GDP growth rate in Europe. So, Serbia wins, we've avoided those black scenarios that you've had a chance to see in much larger and more developed countries, mass layoffs, factory closures, we haven't exactly had that scenario thanks to the responsible, economic policy we've been conducting since 2014. We've had enough reserves, we've had enough room to react, to help our economy, to help our fellow citizens and to say today that we are the winners of the economy as we've never been before. In spite of this assistance, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, despite this much help, the share of public debt in the GDP of the Republic of Serbia is 52.1%, therefore far below the level of Mastricht, well below that EU standard of 60%, although you have the opportunity to see in much more developed countries far worse indicators and worse parameters when it comes to public debt. One Germany now at over 70%, one UK at over 100%, France 120%, Italy 160%, Greece over 220% share of public debt in GDP. Montenegro is already at over 90%, Macedonia is at over 70%, and our Republic of Serbia is 52.1% despite the huge assistance we have given both citizens and businesses. So, one example of a successful Serbia. What is particularly important to me, except for the rate of GDP growth we dominated in Europe last year, except that we maintained the stability of our public finances, in the third quarter of last year's unemployment rate is 10.3%. So, at the level of the one before the pandemic in 2019. You're witnessing that we've opened a large number of factories despite the Kovid 19 pandemic. Only President Vukic has opened 250 factories in Serbia over the past few years. We're building new kilometers of highways, we've built three brand-new Kovid hospitals. In a few days, we're opening a brand-new Serbian Clinical Center here in Belgrade. So Serbia is changing in times of the biggest economic crisis. We showed the stability of our public finances, showed the strength of our economy, showed the responsibility of our economic policy. At this point, we estimate that the average salary in Serbia is around 610 euros in January. We will wait for a further report from the Statistics Institute, but to remind you, in 2010, the average salary in Serbia was 329 euros. So, from month to month, we grow the average wage, our pensions grow. What I know for sure, by the end of the next government's term, by the end of 2026, the average salary in Serbia will be 1,000 euros, the average pension in Serbia will be 500 euros. It's a promise we make, and for that we'll fight from day to day, as we've been fighting for eight years. Thanks again. This is a nice subject, nice law. I want to thank our young people for not only deciding to stay in Serbia, but also returning to a growing number in our country. This law not only shows concern, it's not isolated activity we're dealing with. I'll remind you, we've started to support since January 1st with a much larger amount and a first-born child, both second-born and third-born. So, we support this intrinsic policy of the Republic of Serbia, that our young people, except they get help, except they see that they ride more modern highways, except they can find a job, too, to see that the state also supports the most innovative policy. In the next few days, we will also come up with concrete criteria to help all of our young couples as President Vukic has promised, to help buy the first apartment, participate or share in the loan, to further motivate our young people to return to Serbia, to stay in Serbia and to start their families here. So we are responsible for all categories of pensioners through those who are to say at the best of times and seek and find jobs, to those young people who represent the future of our country. It is an example of responsible policies, but it takes great care of those facing the future of this country. Thank you very much. I remain available for your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12404	Thank you. Since the debate started, there are no amendments. I'm talking about the time it takes between the principle debate and the debate in particular, so there are no amendments to this law. That means today we'll end the vote on this law. The idea is to work until 2:00 a.m., to a break, then from 15.00 a.m. to a new session. After that, about 5:00 or so, depending on the time, we vote. That's when we finished our work in the 12th Assembly. The word is Aleksandra Tomic, as the Committee's rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12405	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, first to thank you on behalf of all fellow Members for the attention we have had in this last day to have by the minister. What we had on the board to see for ourselves and hear, is that less than 5% of young people in the age between 16 and 29 applied for this help. Nearly over 95% of young people reported for this support given by the state, which is 1,059,411 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's a success for us. Obviously, the government and the finance ministry hit a target group that really needed this support. Needed in the sense that after the support we gave as state health workers, state administration, professors, security employees, in the end, the young people who felt that the state was still thinking about them came. It's also minors, for the first time the state has really shown that I'm thinking about them, from 16 to 18 years old, but also young people from 18 to 29 years old. What is important is to say that this payment that shows this one-time support has really given young people the opportunity to think about themselves and how to invest in their future, regardless of how they realize it when they are 16 or 29 years old. That's what's really important to us, which is that when the state has good economic results, then it shares it with its citizens. We've had opportunities to hear from some of the so-called members. The opposition, which wants to be unique in this hatred both towards Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will file criminal charges because it considers it to be one of the measures that buys young people's votes in a certain way. What we have to say is that for young people, we have done more than all those governments together by 2012. We have not only done this support in terms of today's proposal, but we have done a lot when it comes to opening new jobs, in foreign companies, in domestic companies, mostly in the IT sector, but also in the part where they want to be young entrepreneurs, to be released when it comes to taxes and contributions for the first three years, when they have their companies and agencies. Therefore, this country thinks of young people and what is behind us is the reason that this is a form of mitigation of the consequences of the pandemic years, 2020 and 2021, it is of great importance and honor to us that the Committee's session in the last meeting this year we have had the opportunity to really, in a positive way, end up and to wake up in young people somewhere and this relationship with the country itself, that it is a two-way street, that the state thinks of them, and that they think of the state. I think it's of great importance to all of us as MPs, to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12406	Thank you. Do any of the other reporters want a word? (No) We are going to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12407	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, honourable ministers, we today have an important package of economic assistance and the Parliament Club of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will support this legislative proposal. Of course no one shares money from an empty budget, from an empty register. In order to implement such an economic policy and to implement such laws, every citizen and citizen who is well-intentioned and who wants this country and all citizens and citizens would be well supported, but you simply must first meet some preconditions so that you can behave like this. So what is proof that in recent years we have had a good economic policy, that we have had a well-balanced policy and that our budget is simply full and that in these times of crisis we can have these amounts of measures. The prerequisite to behave like this today is primarily economic growth that we had in the last year of 7.5% and projected economic growth in this year is a minimum of 4.5%. Also, in 2019, when most of the world and European economies fell, we were on one zero, which is also evidence of a healthy economic system and public finances in our country. In order for us to behave like this, so that we can adopt today a law that allows citizens and citizens, namely our youth and our minors, to be 16 to 29 years old, to re-adopt a law that will allow them to be paid 100 euros in June of this year, we primarily had to have a full budget, and the basis for that is the fact that over the past year we have opened up the new 60,000 jobs. It's really a big success. Since it's ahead of us and the campaign and the election, it's the easiest thing to do is run the campaign and the election at the time you have the results. These results, whether they belonged to the government or to the opposition, whether you're political or apolitical, are the results on which you have to take off your hat. Because we're not the smartest people to think of this, and other people in other countries and previous governments would do this, but first you have to fill the budget and that these social benefits will not endanger financial stability. This is just one of the continuations of economic assistance. We've given over eight billion money through aid packages to our economy. What was a priority in the fight with Kovid is to preserve the health of citizens and citizens. The second priority is to preserve our economy. I think we have certainly succeeded in doing so and this assembly of parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should certainly be proud of that fact. What makes me particularly happy is that we had and ran a very responsible social policy. Among other things, this measure that we will vote on today falls within the scope of that policy. What I would particularly take advantage of the opportunity to say hello are these one-time aids to our pensioners, primarily this aid that we have paid out of 20,000 dinars, but also an increase in wages and pensions. Of course, what must be pointed out is the help of health workers, because they are heroes of fighting Kovid. We see that even today our health system faces major challenges and this 8% increase in health wages is also the fruit of a good economic policy, but also the fruit of foreign investment, export increases and all other measures. What I want to use as an opportunity when we're talking today is to remind ourselves of some results. Very often, when a problem is solved, we tend to go over it quickly and deal with some negative issues more. Of course, no society, well our society isn't so good that it couldn't be better, but the fact is that certain things move from a dead spot and that the country is really developing, that the problems are solved and that citizens and citizens, whether they belong to a majority people or minority communities, feel certain security and feel real security. I would particularly like to highlight the behaviour of the President of the Republic of Serbia and what we had a few months ago, especially when we had these unloved scenes and incidents in Priboj, and before that also a visit to Sjenci, Novi Pazar, Novi Varosha and Tutin, when President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic came and sent a clear message that all citizens and citizens, regardless of whether members of the majority or minority communities, are equal and that this is their country. That's one big step. The arrival in Priboj, at times when they tried, we really had unloved scenes, so some tried to use it politically is evidence of one courage and responsibility of the president of the Republic of Serbia and should be congratulated on that. I would like to point out that in this mandate, apart from solving and concrete results, when it comes to infrastructure, making a large number of local roads, continuing to build highways, we have solved two major environmental problems. When it comes to the municipalities of Prepolje and the municipalities of Sjenica and that is something that means a lot to the lives of ordinary citizens and citizens. I would also like to point out that in the term of this government, we have solved one of the injustices that we have very often pointed out here towards members of the Bosniak people. It's an accreditation of the international university and it's something to greet. I expect that in the next period we will continue with this good practice. What is very important for members of my Bosniak people is that the previous government has also gone with the return of property to the Islamic community. That's something to say hello to. I'm saying all of this, for the simple reason, that these processes aren't something that's meant to be. Simply, if you have responsible people in charge of the state, the president, the Prime Minister, ministers who essentially know what democracy is, and they essentially want every citizen and citizen to feel the same way. We had a period until 2012 when the DS was in power and the Bosniak people were seen as only one voting machine, where it was understood, per difolt for whom they would vote. That's when we had, I can tell you, one discrimination. This is something that every member of the minority community should remember and compare what the situation is today and how much things have improved, and how it was until 2012. What I want to take advantage of, since I am asked by sports workers of the municipality of Prepolje, is to ask the minister in charge of sports, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Finance if he has the possibility. In the municipality of Prijepolje, the Football Club "Polymlje" was founded in 1926. He's on his way out now. A number of sportsmen, activists, parents whose children attend football and sports school asked me to present this problem. I expect that the ministry, what is in their power, in accordance with the law, will take action to save one of the symbols of the Prepolje municipality. Also, I want to use this call to highlight a problem. The school in Novi Pazar ran out of 26 eights in half a year, while Svetozar Marković Elementary School in Brodarevo, the municipality of Prijepolje, as of September 1st, 32 students were released with today's date. So, absolute praise for economic policy. But what we have to take great care of, and much more to pay attention to, is demographics. This is not just a problem for the Bosniak people, it is a problem for both Serbian and Hungarian and Roma and all citizens living in our country. So our land is slowly emptying out. We can't let that happen. We must do what is in our power, and primarily the ministers, to bring one big side of the investment to Prepolje in Novi Pazar. I think we've done a lot of things when it comes to infrastructure. I am thinking primarily of the highway, of the pipeline, of the replacement of the high voltage and low voltage network, for which the Justice and Reconciliation Party essentially fought, which was primarily insisted by the rickety Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, we will continue to do so in the future. What we're missing is one big investment, a demography policy has to be applied faster. The policy regarding villages and agrarians must be applied faster, because believe me, I am really afraid of the results of the census and the fact that we are going to face, how many citizens and citizens have left our entire country and, above all, the end of our country, where I come from. In voting day, we will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12408	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12409	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, Mr. Minister, is a fine occasion for our gathering today, and it is certain that all people, especially young people in our country, will be happy and happy to support what we are doing today. We, above all, show concern and solidarity as one responsible government. I say again, as far as the state can do in the second act, this will be another hundred euros, i.e. in dinar equivalent, giving the state to young people. This means somewhere around 200 euros with all of those receipts, i.e. the state's contributions, and it is not negligible nor financial, but certainly of no importance is the solidarity and desire shown by this country to rely on young people, to show them all concern and to give them a chance to develop, building a society of equal opportunities for all of them. Of course, this time of the pandemic seemed extremely difficult to me to hit our young people, that what statistics show is inexorable, and that is that almost every six young people lost their jobs in our country, that compared to 2020, the percentage of unemployed young people increased by more than ten percent, and that is the data of the Serbian Youth Foundation. I want to say that it is especially important to pay attention to young people, because about 115 thousand today we have unemployed young people from 15 to 30 years of age, these are data from the National Employment Service of April 2021. They make up one-fifth of the total number of unemployed in Serbia and the lack of work is one of their biggest problems. Also, young people are represented in segments of the economy that were most affected during this curve period, above all it is hospitality, tourism, retailing, and this assistance will really mean a lot to them. When it comes to financial security, uncertainty affects everyone, especially young people, and that state must contribute to helping in line with its capabilities and what it can do. Furthermore, we have a situation that because of the pigs, which is a good thing of this crisis, there are also good things in the crisis, a large part of the young people who worked abroad or studied abroad, or who stayed abroad returned to their families, their old jobs, and should do everything to motivate these people to stay in their home country. Also, another piece of information is interesting, which is that during this crisis, less young people have shown a desire, by statistics, to leave our country. That's something we need to take advantage of. I am truly convinced that rather than flossula that young people are present or future, it is necessary to make concrete measures, as we do today, in order not to become a society without young people. They need help now and immediately, to overcome the crisis, to overcome the current situation, which is not due to their lack of engagement or unhappiness and insufficient activity, but has been affected by objective circumstances. Two are an extremely important aspect that I've seen in these statistics and I'm very concerned about, if we're looking at our young people, and they're the engine of every country's development. The first is that psychological aspect, because the hard search for proper work affects the mood of young people. According to research by the International Labour Organisation and the 2020 European Youth Forum, 50% of young people showed signs of fear and depression. As a doctor, this information is devastating to me, and that is why I welcome the measure of our country like this. Of course, showing solidarity and concern is a big thing that we are going to cancel out and try to bring practically these mental problems that can arise in young people to a minimum. The other thing that concerns me is that some research has shown that young people in Serbia are far more conservative and incarcerated than a generation of their parents, even grandparents, and that it is an epidemic cove that has further, let me say, accelerated. This study says that a very small amount, it is said, less than 20%, of young people vaccinated, that about 44% of young people, meaning less than 50% of young people, thinks democracy is the best form of government and that an extremely small percentage of young people have a positive attitude towards the EU. It's something I'm worried about and we have to work on seriously. As a society, we must do everything possible to open our young people to the world, that without any complexes they can evenly with their peers from the most developed countries of the earth's pattern to enter competence. While I was in college, I had really wonderful professors, including this Tiodorović, who often appears on television, I remember his words. We have been reminded at all times that somewhere in Massachusetts, our rival, our colleague, learns on living models much more, much more actively and that we must be prepared to compete if we think we are at least in their ranks, if not better. We must really open our young people in the right way and be supportive of them in every way, especially at the level of education, and I must say that Serbia is a country where education is free and that our young people have the opportunity, if they show quality, to be educated absolutely free of charge and of course to be truly successful in all professions, and this is not an opportunity in many countries and it is not given by many countries. Many have criticised this way of aid, however, I must say, by looking at both the environment and the most developed countries, such as France, the United States, Croatia and Slovenia, that all these countries have shown some species similar to ours and have tried in a similar way to help their own not only youngest, but the most fragile groups of the population. That so-called. The concept of "the money from the helicopter", the concept described for the first time by economist Milton Friedman in 1969, in fact, the concept that describes the transfer of money from the central bank directly to the citizens' accounts, is an extremely good incentive that not only acts psychologically on the most frigid groups, but also encourages consumption in one country at the time of the pandemic, which is extremely current and important. In the end, I come from the end of this country that has a good birth rate and a really lot of young people. I want to show them that they have a chance and that this country cares for them and that this is just a kind of solidarity and support that we want to give them in difficult times. This year, the European Union has declared it a year of youth. The Kovid-19 pandemic has limited the possibility for young people, so it is important to dedicate 2022 to young people, improve the situation caused by the pandemic crisis and create opportunities for greater participation of young people in the development of Serbia. This kind of assistance that is regulated by this bill is precisely an indicator of goodwill, but also a means of further development and progress of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12410	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12411	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Mrs. Jevdzic, Honored Ministers Sinisa Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the proposal for a law on the temporary register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age who are paying for financial aid to mitigate the consequences of the Kovid-19 pandemic, or to translate into a less legal language or language more understandable people, today we are discussing a law that will allow a new payment of assistance to young people of 100 euros. We have discussed similar laws several times in this assembly over the last year and a half, almost two years, which we have allowed to provide additional assistance to citizens, but not only to citizens, but also to economic operators in the Republic of Serbia as a result of the Kovida-19 pandemic. At the beginning of this month, we paid our first aid to young people of 100 euros, and this aid had a very good echo in the public, and not only the echo, all of those kinds of aid we gave to citizens and businesses had, in addition to a good echo, a good end result. In fact, the pandemic of the coronary virus has led to the economic crisis of global scales, to the decline of economic activity of all countries, to the energy crisis, the volume of responsibility of most of the world's countries has been increased and the standard of living for most of our planet's inhabitants has been reduced. This crisis continues because the pandemic is not over and we can only hope that this pandemic will last as soon as possible, or that it will end soon. Where is Serbia, where have we been for the past two years? Well, what I just said, we fought. Thanks to some austerity and fiscal consolidation measures in the earlier period, we managed to preserve our cash register and to keep our Serbian cash registers up to all the pressures that the pandemic of the coronary virus carries. We were able first of all to preserve production capacity, to preserve jobs, to maintain the level of government debt below the level of Mastricht, we were able to preserve economic growth. Let me just remind you that in 2021, that economic growth was 7.5%. We were able to increase the amount of minimum earnings to 300 euros, while the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia amounted to around 600 euros. We have also managed to increase pensions in the Swiss formula and to provide adequate assistance to businesses and citizens. We managed to preserve our country's energy stability at a time of energy crisis and keep the unemployment level in Serbia below the unemployment level before the pandemic of the coronary virus. In addition, we remained a leader in foreign direct investment, because in 2021 we had direct foreign investments of as much as 3.9 billion. Of course, we have succeeded, among other things, by implementing three aid packages that amounted to almost a little less than nine billion, a package that included all categories of the population besides the economy – both the employees, the unemployed, and the pensioners, and workers and health and education, and the old and here for the second time today we are passing such a law to provide this 100-euro financial assistance. That's good, and for us in Unity Serbia it's especially important because for Unique Serbia, young people are really the law. It's not some political parole or flossula, but we show it everywhere the people have shown us trust and action. That young people are talking about Unity Serbia and traditional youth travel to Vienna, the city of Jagodina organises for students who study at schools in Jagodina and young Jagodina students who study at other universities across Serbia, at the University of Belgrade, Nis and Kragujevac. We do so to see our students live and study in a city that has been repeatedly declared the best place to live in the world, but we take them and we see that there are, say, 2200 hours of working days, there is no one on the streets, except maybe some tourists, because there is work, and they are lying there early, and resting. To see that the University of Vienna is a good university, but that they can come back and say that our universities aren't any weaker. Dragan Markovic Palma has repeatedly stressed that our wish is for our young people to go to see the world, to come back and live and work in our country. It's the policy we stand for, the policy we implement, and the policy we support. Care for young people is that every year for years we take students of the fourth and eighth grade elementary school and students of the secondary school every year for free on the cost of the city of Jagodina to the sea. Often when we meet and ask these young people how many times they were at sea they say, well, three times. In the fourth, eighth and the end of high school. That's exactly when they were organized by the city of Jagodina. Care for young people is that we have the lowest price of kindergartens in Serbia. The concern for young people is that since 2004, we have been leading a persistent and fundamental policy that makes every year the city of Jagodina registers for one class of champions more. Care for young people is that we have introduced free city transport, first for students and youngest and later for pensioners, and here, for years ago for all residents, for all citizens of the city of Jagodina. The concern for young people is that since JS has run the city of Jagodina for the past 17 years, the city of Jagodina's October prize is given to the best pupils of primary and secondary schools in our city. As a rule, it's some first money they've earned in their sweat and their hard work. Care for young people is that the city of Jagodina finances all sports clubs, both in the city and in the villages. Care for young people is that every village has a small sports field, and a large terrain, we built out for everyone, but above all for young people. Care for young people and the fact that the city of Jagodina is funded by all cultural and artistic societies and every village has a cultural and artistic society. We finance and maintain for everyone, but mostly for the sake of young people, because that is the only way we can keep our villages, make them vital and provide them with the future, because without young people, there is no future in those villages. The concern for young people is these 100 euros, which the state gives to young people for the second time. Everyone must be involved in the fight for young people. The state must also be involved, local self-government must be included, cultural, educational, scientific institutions, sports organisations, businesses, literally all of them must be included. The fight for young people is new jobs. Fighting for young people is also a quality education. The fight for young people is also the opening of scientific and technological parks, etc. There's no alternative to this fight for young people. We have to turn that process away from young people from the country. It's been slow for the last few years that we've been able to do and turn that trend around moving young people out of the country. More and more, we can see examples of young people returning from the white world to their homeland. Now we have a reverse process that those doctors, health workers, medical workers who went to Germany, or wherever, they start coming back slowly. When we win that fight, and we do everything we can to win this fight, we can say that our policy has won and that we have abetted with this policy all the devastating consequences and actions, and the carelessness of the young, which has been shown by generations of politicians before us. Especially the carelessness of those who are so full of young and European mouths that all young people have been driven to the same Europe. You are also suing the state today because it gives 100 euros in aid to young people. Where will you be more direct, and where will you give more concrete proof of how much they care for young people? They view young generations as simply temporary citizens of Serbia, who are born in Serbia, who are eventually educated in Serbia, beautiful posters for their political parties, and then exhibited, desperate, betrayed by the same ones we talk about, leaving Serbia. We want that kind of Serbia, and we want to change it, and we want to change it, and that's the part of the opposition that's making a big difference, which is why they're suing Serbia. We had an example of an opposition, and I don't remember his name, because he simply has so much support in the people, to file a criminal report against Serbia because we are giving 100 euros in aid to young citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I won't waste any more words on them. I want to take the opportunity to invite all of our citizens of Serbia to go to the elections on April 3rd and wish them democratic and fair elections, to wish all political actors a happy start of the election campaign. A unique Serbia, as I said last time in the April 3rd parliamentary elections, will come out in coalition with its old coalition partner, 14 years of the coalition with the SPS, we have been together since 2008. This coalition has a recognizable programme, has recognizable people who lead Ivica Dačić and Dragan Markovic Palma. We have always worked for the benefit of the citizens and the state of Serbia. Our coalition has concrete and realistic results. That's why our coalition is not about supporting the people, because we have concrete results, we have real policy, we have a policy of preserving basic state and national interests, policy of economic development of the country, policy of social justice, policy of caring for young people and old people, policy of caring for workers' rights, but also policy of improving the status of agricultural producers, but also real green policy, not environmental demagogy, which we can hear on the streets these days. I urge all citizens of Serbia to support the SPS-JS coalition in the next elections, in parliamentary and local elections. In the presidential elections, our coalition supports the current president and we invite them to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12412	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, the MP Emesa Uri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12413	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as I was the first MP today, I would like to thank the minister for the beautiful gift he has given us. Nice words and praises about this bill won't be about that. We of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians believe that this proposal, i.e. the addition of the Law on the Temporary Register, is good, that it has some continuity, that it follows the strategic goals set by this Government and your Ministry. That's why we'll support this bill's election day. As for Kovid, we've talked a lot over two years about the problems that have arisen from the pandemic, because of the economic crisis of world proportions that hit both the surrounding countries and our country. To praise is everything the government is trying and doing successfully to reduce the negative consequences of this pandemic. The constitutional basis for this law is in the Constitution itself, so there is no dilemma of whether this law can be passed, and the reasons, as I just said, and the overall world situation because of the pandemic, because of the economic crisis and because of the other world states and our countries, our government has also noticed that certain categories of citizens, residents have a certain need to be helped more by the state. These are our older fellow citizens and young ones. The working-age population will receive practically the most help if they are provided with more jobs, because if we give a job to a man we actually gave the most possible material help to him and his family. The period from 16 to 29 years is a very vulnerabilities group. Today’s youth at that age is not yet practically ready, or just one smaller part, one smaller percentage of them are ready to go into independent life, to be able to start a family on their own, to buy real estate and to start their own economic venture. This is why this aid is extremely good, that it practically holds them and that if they are smart, if they save that money they can invest in themselves, in their studies in their future. What is very important is that recipients and young people who receive otherwise social assistance show that there are neither positive nor negative disqualifications, but simply are allowed to reach those funds equally, even those who are subject to some criminal sanctions. The reasons, once again, are the global scales - the economic crisis and the activity of the economy that is significantly endangered not only by us, but also by the world and any money that can trigger this economy is very important for maintaining economic growth or even for increasing it. Many of these days talk about what the interest of the state is when it shares that kind of help to young people. The interests of the state to help young people are numerous. It could be a national interest. So, if we help young people, they're motivated. They will have a practically greater identity, a national identity and a sense of belonging to their country. What's the social interest? Motivated and materially secured young people who are allowed to train, perfect, professional training to become more valuable members of society is practically the engine of any social progress and that is the social interest in such investments. Economic interest, because every young man can, is that it's small money, but yet young people are known for being very creative and able to build their creativity, intelligence, power to build into their work and thus strengthen the economy of the whole country. All of this can encourage them, distract them from starting their families, returning to their own country, there are many examples of them, and starting their careers. Again, the question is, is it worth 100 euros, or is it worth it in dinars? Certainly not, however, do not forget that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in this term, first established a special ministry of care for family and demographics. He has passed new laws that are an incentive for young people to start a family, to have children. What is especially to praise is that all these laws, i.e. a series of laws, show that there is a strategy, and without a strategy there is no progress. So there is strategic planning to improve living conditions for Serbian citizens. The first steps must be small, but it's an important direction and we stick to that direction. So there's a law. A law on financial assistance to families with children was passed, then various employment programmes, specifically from my ministry's portfolio, the Ministry of Health, the employment of young doctors and nurses. The law on dual education, which is very important to the segment of young people who do not want to study, who do not want to be academic citizens, but also very valuable to our fellow citizens, to learn to become quality masters, builders, ceramics, plumbers, electricians, mechanics, carpenters, chefs, waiters, breeders, all that we have for years neglected as some lower rank or less important parts of our society. Then, we passed the Social Cards Act for greater justice in the distribution of social aid and to reduce social exclusion. Also, we should not forget that for motivation, staying young is not just about money. It's important, it's important. Even sometimes property over real estate isn't enough. Management studies, human resources, showed that after meeting basic life, physical-biological needs, such as food, houses, the safety that we can provide most of the money, it is necessary for young people to experience themselves as important members of society, that their work, contribution, is appreciated, that they have the opportunity to prove their knowledge, abilities, ambitions. That's what we see in young athletes, that's what pushes them with new goals. Here, look at our Djokovic. At first, it wasn't just money that mattered to him, it was that he was appreciated, that he achieved the results. It's the same with good students. They're practically bothered by it more to be successful, to be the best. That's what we need to give our young people besides money, by work, by security, by the house. In addition, I welcome again the Ministry of Health for adopting the programme of employment of the most successful young doctors and nurses and in this way, with a very well-designed strategy to first move towards the practical rehabilitation of clinical centres, construction and construction of hospitals, the health homes have now started to rebuild a little bit, it is very important. So the greatest lack of very professional personnel has proved to be in clinical centres, and this way, for some years, this deficit will be compensated. However, I would add that you should also think about the primal and this occasion, means primary health care, because, unfortunately, right now we have this tow power of these competitions and young doctors from rural hospitals, from small homes of health, even from cities, from city hospitals and hospitals, go to clinical centres, because young people prefer to work teamly, that they are in large hospitals. Don't forget that for years we've been watching very popular series where mostly interesting life details of these very clinical centres are shown, where emergency doctors are very beautiful, ambitious, successful, so this is also an attractive force for young doctors not to be in small hospitals in homes of health, but in clinical centres. But remember, nearly half of our population lives in rural areas. Unfortunately, among them is a poor demographic shift that keeps them old. So they're nursing and single households. Then, according to the villages, there are more men, there are few children, that virtually only the medical home of health remains of the state institutions, possibly the primary school. No more libraries, no more mail. We should keep what we've got at least then. So, hospitals as much as we leave it, that is, to preserve and keep the elementary school still present. As far as the developed world is concerned, primary health care, or family medicine, is one of the most profitable branches. In the west, you can only buy for big money the practices of family doctors, since people are actually being treated there. So they're not going to hospitals, clinics, polyclinics to diagnose their disease, they're doing just that. You should consider that our doctors working on the primary, we educate, to put an emphasis on it, because good diagnostics is actually only worth it if it's timely. If you're late, then it doesn't matter whether you set it up or not, you've already lost your life or at least the quality of your life. Let's take another example from Japan. They realized after World War II that they could only raise and strengthen their country economically if they invest in people who educate young people, so, teachers. In education, they work best with them, so not the worst students, but the best. They're the best paid. They're better paid by doctors than engineers, because they're the ones who raise, raise, work with young populations, with young people, and make them ambitious and creative people. And they're ambitious and creative themselves. That's how Japan became a world power. There, however, should be added that they have exceptional working discipline, but only working discipline is not enough. A strategy is needed, and it is necessary to set the right goals. The motivation and stimulation of teachers, the engagement of creative, young people in various school activities, whether these are additional teaching activities, whether it's physical teaching, whether it's an extended stay where it would be done, practically all the homework and freed itself from the burden of the family, in this direction should the Ministry of Education further develop. Giving money to young people is always an investment in their and our future. It is the state that can and should improve its strategic plans and clearly show where a young man can see himself in the future and based on his ambitions, desires and demands his surroundings, he can achieve his goals. Due to the above, the SVM parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12414	Thank you. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12415	I thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Jevdzic. Dear Ministers Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so as you said in the opening statement, respected ministers, in the past two very difficult years, the year when Serbia was still facing itself, unfortunately, with the biggest health challenge, whose end is not yet in sight, Serbia has singled out 8.7 billion euros or over 18% of GDP, in support of the challenge of the negative consequences of the pandemic, the support that has been directed, above all, towards citizens and, above all, towards the economy. On the other hand, Serbia is the only country in the world, which I am fully convinced of, you correct me if I am wrong, the only country in the world and in Europe that is this much of a burden of crisis, considering the amount of funds that has been allocated, seeing the aid packages directed towards citizens and businesses, therefore, the only country in the world that has taken this kind of burden of crisis on itself. But we had very clear and precisely defined goals. The first goal of not jeopardising macroeconomic stability, the second goal to preserve each job, to preserve the level of employment in Serbia, the third goal, of course, the standard of living of citizens and the fourth goal, the economy. First, small and medium-sized enterprises were helped, and then there were large businesses. We succeeded in the period behind us, thanks to these measures, to keep the economy on stable feet, which is of the utmost importance and importance and in the most difficult year, we had the highest rate of economic growth of 1%, which is extremely important. Three key issues have mostly been implemented over the past two years, and today these three key issues are something they always ask you, especially during the pandemic period, whose end is not yet being seen and due to the causing of negative consequences. The first question is, were there any layoffs? The second question is, were there factory closures? The third question is always did foreign investors give up investment? Fortunately, not fortunately, but above all because this government acted responsibly and seriously, the answer to all three questions is no. Not that there hasn't been a decrease in unemployment levels, but from a record 25.9% unemployment rate we reached the historic 9% of 2020. When it comes to opening factories, as far as I know, over 150 factories have been opened. So we're not closing, we're already opening factories. When it comes to foreign direct investment in the year when it was most difficult, foreign direct investments amounted to three billion euros, I think. It is no accident that the Financial Times has ranked Serbia back several years in line with the most attractive and attractive investment destinations. So the system worked when it was the hardest and not only had the system worked, but what was extremely important, the system managed to achieve significant results. You can always try to manipulate something in politics, as it is being manipulated today with these 100 euros, and I'll talk about it later. You can try to manipulate, but when you talk about economy, when you talk about numbers, about numbers, there's no manipulation. The numbers are exact. That's where you can't get along. You can't say that the minimum labour price, let's say, in 2012, was 102 dinars, since April 115 dinars, and that, for example, from January 1, 2021, it increased by 6.6%, which is 32,126 dinars, and in 2022, it is 35,012 dinars, which is an increase of even 9.4%. You can't say that the average salary net in the 2020 dinars was 60,073 dinars. I'll remind you, back in 2012, it was 41,377 dinars, that just during a difficult situation, during the pandemic period we managed to raise health workers' salaries from January 1, 2021 by 5%, while the other public sector employees' salaries had been growing by 1.5% and 3.5% since April 2021. And since January 2022, salaries have been paid to employees in health institutions, the Ministry of Defence, employees of social protection institutions, health workers at the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions and health workers at the University of Sport and Sports of the Republic of Serbia's wages have been increased by as much as 8%, while the salaries of other budget users have increased by 7%. That's the facts. You can't hide that. And these are the results that have been achieved precisely because one responsible and serious economic policy has been conducted. In late January or early February, 120,000 health workers received 10,000 dinars. First we had young people who received the first 100 euros from 16 to 19 years of age and for those who were critics at the time, the best answer to that question was the number of young people who then applied, which is 1.19 million young people applied for those 100 euros. Then, as a result, I want to highlight the average pension in dinars. In 2012, for example, it was 23.024 dinars, while in 2021, from January 1st in the Swiss model, there was an increase in pensions of 5.9%, the total increase in pensions from 2012 to 2021 is, say, 30.9%. Since January 1st, 2022, pensions have increased by another 5.5%. In addition, all pensioners received one-off aid of 20,000 dinars in February, which you spoke of in the opening presentation. And I am fully convinced that we will succeed in achieving that final goal and the ultimate goal, which is "Serbia 2025", when the average net earnings in Serbia will be 900 euros, and when the average pension in Serbia will be 430 euros, because it is a good route. As for unemployment, I already said, the historic maximum in 2012 is 25.9%, to reach the historic minimum at 9%. The gross social product I also mentioned, the public debt was 29.61 billion euros or 56.5% of GDP at the end of October, which is less than the Mastricht level of 60%. So we have a controlled public debt. Foreign direct investment, I've already said, three billion euros a year when it's the hardest. There are currently some 1,300km of highways and fast traffic in Serbia, and only in the previous five years, more specifically from 2016 to 2020, 5,000km of roads were made as far as local, state, regional. What is also important when we talk about infrastructure, so 12 highways are being done in Serbia today, and that is Serbia's blood flow, 12 highways that have 3.8 billion euros invested in. So, Serbia is strong and economically stable today, but I have to go back to a period far behind us in 2014. So Serbia today is strong and economically stable precisely thanks to the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which began in 2014, which was then a brave but politically unpopular move. That's the period, if you remember when they called us to steal pensions, to collect salaries, when criminal charges were filed. We were told by the Socialists at the time that we lost our identity, and we just made it very clear -- we are socialists, but we can't be socialists. So, between the two times, when we speak from a financial aspect, so, a path that is inevitable, something that you have to do to get an economic recovery and a path that is a list of good wishes and if that list of good wishes were to be achieved in practice and achieved, there would be financial bankruptcy and financial collapse, we choose what is the interest of the citizens of Serbia. So these were economic measures for Serbia's future, economic measures to save the Serbian economy. I'm sorry they didn't realize that then. Otherwise, the SPS has repeatedly mentioned that we as a parliamentary club certainly support the economic and social responsible policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a policy that has a human being in its centre, a citizen of Serbia. On the other hand, today we're talking about taking care of the oldest population, because it's true, they've been through one difficult period this year and in February here's a one-time aid of 20,000. I hope that, with this kind of economic policy, we will also be able to look at it with optimism in front of us, but today we are talking about the second time that attention is given to a younger generation, a period of 16 to 29 years. It is the other 100 euros that stand out for the representatives of the younger generation and it is very good, Minister, that young people realize that someone cares about them, even if it is that 100 euros. They have lost those two years, but it's important, psychological consciousness, it's important that we give these young people optimism that the state takes care of them in this way. This is not a populist measure, this is not a political declaration, this is something of general interest. To be clear, if the Fiscal Council were here today, he would certainly say as much about those 100 euros when we decided to divide all Serbian citizens, he said that the measure is not right, that we have, that we have to have a selective approach, right? I suppose they'd say something like that, and they couldn't convince their employees not to take those 100 euros, so those who put together the report. I asked Mr Petrovic to tell me how his employees feel when they get that 100 euros in the period when they were compiling the report, they got that 100 euros, because I had a list that they got and that they took, they didn't hesitate, they applied? So it was just necessary and necessary to tell me how they felt. You know, everything's nice to watch from a comfortable chair where you have a secure salary and I don't want to put any pressure on independent and regulatory bodies, no. We are here to help the work of independent and regulatory bodies, to strengthen them, to strengthen them, but we are also here to debate them if there are different opinions. Maybe they're right, but you need to know the level of responsibility. One responsibility has the executive power, one responsibility has the Fiscal Council and the measure and responsibility and other responsibility we have as MPs, we who are the voice of the people and we who represent the citizens of Serbia. You know, I've told Mr Petrovic several times that this narrow professional policy is not a magic wand and that these analyses that time eats and deny do not solve current problems, I would like them to come down among the people and talk to citizens about how citizens feel and how much it helped them or did not help them with that 100-euro measure. I listed it because I am fully convinced that they would criticise this measure, but since they are not there, they are left behind, there is some quasi opposition that criticises and says this is a purchase of votes. Why are they thus underestimating and humiliating young people? It's underestimation and humiliation of young people. Do they think that, we wanted, Minister, we could have paid these 100 euros before the election, if so, but this is paid in June after parliamentary, presidential and city elections. Today we just decide that we want to help young people. Does anyone think they can buy the election that way? Wait, if someone has that kind of thinking and still comes from the ranks of the opposition representing a leader there, I don't want to deal with him, who has a lot of money, he's already won this election, right? He's got so much money right now, he won, and I don't know why he cares. Then why are you calling for protests, then why is he talking about the election being stolen when he, the man, has the money, he's gonna buy it, right? We don't have that kind of money, but he certainly does. If there's a good one, such a mediocre football club, there's got to be a lot more to it. He'll buy the election, no worries about them. I don't know why so much concern and underestimation and humiliation of young people. You know, the issue of choice for the SPS and our coalition partners from the JS has always been a matter of responsibility and it's always been a matter of seriousness. Do you recognize any of these opposition leaders in these two words? Where's the responsibility? Hiding behind someone's character and actions? Wait, if you are the leader of any opposition citizens expect of you - go to the election name and last name, offer an alternative, offer a program. Why hide behind other names, why make up other names? You know, I've heard a very interesting crackdown on how one of the opposition political parties got to the presidential candidate. He says - it's violence, it seems to you like domestic violence, with that violence still not and cannot be reported. Do you take any of the opposition seriously in other words? So, we've been bullied here for a few months. They've been looking for anything we can find. They got everything, we accepted everything, so they'd announce a public competition a few days ago, so they don't even have box guards. They're publishing a public competition to fill in places to have someone at the polling station to keep the box, so are these serious political parties? You know what, I've heard everything, but that the opposition, as an alternative, is coming out with the program -- we're going to tear this down, we're going to ban this, we're going to adopt a resolution on rematch, there's going to be lustration and everything, we're going to move the monument. Now, here's the thing: A relationship with young people. To remind you of the relationship towards Kosovo and Metohija, that is, the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija when they said that the Serb list was criminalised, with 99.9% of the citizens of our citizens living in the area of northern Kosovo and Metohija. Well, you're criminalizing the entire north of Kosovo and Metohija and sending such a message to the world. The same situation as Republika Srpska. And that movie that recently appeared, but that's their relationship to the citizens of Republika Srpska. We, together with our people from Republika Srpska, mark together and always mark all important dates. But I'm not surprised by their attitude towards the citizens of Republika Srpska if you have in mind the fact that it is the bearer of a list of one of the opposition political parties, call them, or a coalition of someone who signed a resolution saying that Serbia is a genocide state and that Serbia is a genocide people. So I'm absolutely no wonder. Imagine the wonders if I tell you that there are also in Montenegro and you will see when all this is lit up and when the masks fall to the end you will see the impact, ministers, "News" on that destabilisation that is happening today in Montenegro, and you know very well who owns "News", who bought "News" from Soros, someone who has influenced certain human resources and extremely important human resources. So that's them, the worse for Serbia, the better for us. Let's destabilize the region better for us. We'll try our friends from the West or the international community, we'll find someone. If we fail in Brussels, and we leave what costs us, money costs us nothing, we go to Washington to lobby American congressmen. What's costing us for one day? It's a local opposition, but to return to the subject of course. So, certainly in the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal. I've already listed the reasons why. Please, Minister, I believe that even in the next term, if not for a higher function, you will perform a secure function of the finance minister, to hold on to that currency, what you have been talking about all the time during this calls for every invested dinar, no matter what Paul Petrovic or anyone says, to stick to that route we have defined here in the Assembly, we will end the pandemic, will pass through June, but every invested dinar in the increase of wages, pensions, the standard of living of citizens and infrastructure, what has been done when it comes to the 2022 budget because there is no economic without infrastructure development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12416	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12417	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we heard a lot about Serbia's economic performance both last year and the past, which are two important pandemic years, not only for Serbia but also for the region and the whole world. What turned out to be that our economy progressed both in those two years and with its results, when others were falling, we were at least falling. That's why last year we had the highest growth rates. Obviously these results and what we have had to hear so far are in fact an indication that Serbia is going a good way and that these good results should be shared with its citizens. And if we are talking about supporting the economy by the state and if we are talking about support for health care, we have forgotten this part somewhere, and I want to remind the citizens of Serbia that we have not only worked on certain target groups for the last two years to support, but since 2016, when the question of young people this government of Serbia and President Vukic have really come to this problem in the most responsible way. The problem since 2012 when Serbia was on the verge of economic downturn has had an unemployment rate of 26%. Then youth unemployment up to 30 years, we don't talk until 40, was almost 52%. Today we are talking about unemployment of 9.5% and we are talking about unemployment of young people today up to 30 years from 20%. The effort that the Republic of Serbia has achieved in a certain way not only to transform economically, but also to strengthen entirely all sectors where young people will have great support is permanent work, continued from 2016 to 2022, and I want to say that in fact this is only one of the results with which Serbia is now going to carry out one support for young people from 16 to 29 years of age, i.e. to that target group that has so far shown no such kind of support as this Government of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vucic. When we talk today about the state's commitments, it has assumed that all the negative effects the young have had over the past two years, which are obviously the last target group to be supported by the state, have come to their turn and the state is simply thinking about them. By improving the social situation of young people in the last six years, which we are dealing with, and also by spreading one economic optimism is the creation of an ambience in the Republic of Serbia in which we want to send a strong message, which is – stay young here, build your careers here, create your families here, create the future of Serbia. It is you who take responsibility for life and work here in Serbia and it is of great importance as one message, not as some of these opposition parties that represent it as a kind of manipulation of the desire to buy someone's votes. That they worked with pensioners in 2008 and tried to work in 2011. They took out loans for consumption, for raising pensions so that pensioners would vote for them in the elections and simply show how important it is to have their own voting body as a single voting machine. For us, neither pensioners nor young nor farmers nor entrepreneurs, all target groups have the advantage of talking to them in the way those who ruled this Serbia had spoken until 2012. We want a balanced development of Serbia in all segments of society. That's what we showed. The first year after which she showed that she had good results, when we came out of fiscal consolidation, when we passed 2014, 2015, 2016, when this period of growth and development came and when we got results, we therefore set out to raise our citizens' standards and raise wages and pensions, but also large investment cycles when it comes to investment not only in infrastructure. I'll tell you what the state did when it comes to young people. One year we looked at not up to the thirty years of people who finished schools, colleges, started work, private business, their careers in the state sector, but extended it to 40 years of young people and gave some support. When it comes to investment in young people, then we started from real investment and the world economy asking for a transition from real investment to so-called. Investment in growth and development based on knowledge, innovation and digitisation. We want to admit it or not from 2016 until today, Serbia has entered the digitalisation process completely and is among the ten most developed countries in the world, when it comes to this process. That's why today we can say that we have introduced a digital business registration. It was somewhere that young people were pushed to go to the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises and their agencies, to the so-called. start the apps. The state has invested a lot in the start-up and through the financial sector, by freeing the payments of young people who open companies up to 40 years in 2019, 2020, 2021, and those who have gone since 2020, 2021 and 2022, and the part relating to farmers who have fewer salaries net of 37,000 dinars, but also those who have fewer salaries in the IT sector than 150,000 dinars. They became an integral part of certain distribution chains each in their area. What does that mean? That big companies recognized these small companies, especially those run by young people because they were always at a higher level in education than people who were at the end of their careers and over 50 years old and because they were following new trends in IT technology, in general innovation in society. It's perfectly logical to let this one industrial momentum run by young people and take them into your wing when it comes to large companies. As a result, the Development Fund, as well as the RAS, as well as the Innovation Fund, have opened their credit lines for young people with good ideas and can run with their projects to support such projects. Believe me, today when we talk about dual education at all, we are talking exclusively about the fact that it is not only about the medium professional frame, when it comes to young people, but also about the highly educated ability for young people to define themselves for this type of dual education. It is that they have a certain salary while studying, and later they take responsibility for their jobs based on the knowledge they have acquired. When we talk about the IT sector, IT sector exports have increased, then the results say that in 2021 it ended with 1.5 billion euros in exports, which exceeded the percentage of exports in agricultural products and which is 28% more export than it was in 2020 according to the NBS research. Serbia has fully entered this process of economic development and I think it is a recognition for this and on February 7th, Mrs Ana Brnabic was at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland, signed an agreement on the basis of which a centre for the fourth industrial revolution opened in Belgrade, one of the 16 centres that will connect the world in artificial intelligence, new technologies, nano technologies, the development of an entirely new industry that implies a combination of human and machine and which becomes our reality. We're talking about electric cars today, and the fourth industrial revolution in a few years, 2030 to 2040, includes the application of cars without drivers. Therefore, we are not saying this because it is an abstract idea in the future, but because the English queen also talks about it, that England should invest in such strategic projects to advance economically, since it has left the EU. If you look at this way from the strategic position of Serbia, which is a country in one hilly Balkans, which is with its economic parameters far above all Western Balkan countries, which is side by side with developed EU countries, which have good diplomatic relations with both countries both east and west, then you can see that young people who want to return to Serbia from the developed centres of the world right now want to return to one Serbia, because last year the most famous large companies in the IT sector opened their plants here. It is the Nordeus who bought the companies, where he invested 225m euros. Then the NSR, which invested 100m euros to hire 500 new young engineers, as well as Microsoft, who also hired 500 people, who had only three employees so far. So Serbia is recognised as the centre of modern technologies, so to speak, where young people are employed. By last October, there were 43,500 young people registered to work in this sector, and they say about 64,000 people in this sector are working. The forecast for Microsoft by 2025 is that Serbia should have 120,000 employees in this sector. Then when we talk about the science parks in which Serbia invests from the budget, six, seven cities will have really open the most modern scientific technology parks, where we really need to connect the economy, education, digitalisation sector with modernisation, when it comes to energy transition and green technology, and that future is actually starting today. When we talk about this Borca, which these opposition leaders would like to take to rule Belgrade, they forgot one big fact, which is that Serbia signed an agreement with the People's Republic of China to open a science-technological park where it should work 10,000 high-level educational staff, precisely from the IT area. So what is an indicator of those who today call themselves the only opposition because they have media funding from abroad, obviously do not understand how far Serbia has progressed. They simply remained trapped in the 2012 past, so they allowed themselves to take down certain strategic projects that have been living in Serbia for ten years, such as "Belgrade on Water", which has now filed a lawsuit against Alexander Vukic because Serbia has decided, the government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a proposal to support young people of 100 euros, as an action against Alexander Vukic, who wants to buy votes from young people. First, basic ignorance shows the former MP that you cannot sue the president of the state for the laws passed in the National Assembly on a proposal from the government. To take this as a form of ignorance, it is obviously an indicator of one insolence and an attempt to run the worst monster campaign in one way that wants to tell us that everything you want to do well for this Serbia will be completed as one of the court trials. Then Mr. Vesenovic should extend this indictment and sue all Serbian government ministers and sue all MPs here at the National Assembly who will vote for the proposal. And if we were all subject to these lawsuits, we should answer that the legal basis for what we are voting here in the Assembly today is the Constitution, Article 97, paragraphs 6 and 7 and explain to Mr. Veseinovic that those who forced him to do something like this are truly extremely hypocritical when it comes to Serbia's politics at all. This is what we have to say today that everyone who wants to challenge Serbia's progress and who wants to return Serbia at a time when they ruled and the budgets ended and used for the sake of the budget of their private companies and that those times have passed simply show that they do not want to tell the citizens of Serbia directly that it is their policy, but are hiding behind campaigns like this that they want to end in court, to make certain political pamphlets out of it. It is simply that the citizens of Serbia will not support them and will not give them the right, so they will have the opportunity to really say by April 3rd what the programme goals they want to go to elections with and want well for this Serbia, as well as those young people who are supposed to live here in Serbia and show that they have a future. The results of both SNS and Aleksandra Vukic are shown through the figures. The figures show that by last October, 93,200 Serbian citizens from developed countries returned to Serbia. Over 90% are EU countries. Of those 93,200, they must be at least 40% younger than 30 years old, because they want, apparently, to build their future here in Serbia. For us, this is of great importance, because it is an indication that Serbia is going a good path. When I said that we here want all these measures to improve the social position of young people, then we say that we are creating a good environment in a society in which this economic optimism will rule, because it proved to be one of the most important factors in the 2020 pandemic of why we ended the year with the slightest decline in our economy. That is why surely in the campaign as SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic, who will be the bearer of our list, we will talk about these results, but we will certainly also talk about the 2025 plan with projections in 2030, because we understand what it is that gives the results of Serbia's future, what it gives to young people, but also to all of us in society. For this reason, I call on all MPs to support this proposal in the voting day, almost this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12418	Thank you. Since no more of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or the president are answering for a word, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12419	This law is one of those laws you can't dispute. However, I will not vote for it, because it is the product of an economic theory that does not care about the social structures and needs of our people. Milton Friedman and the Chicago School of Economics came up with the idea of "the money from the helicopter". It in itself increases the aggregate demand and helps the economy survive this kind of impact that we had at the time of the pandemic. But what Chicago School never took an interest in, because it came on the wings of the CIA in Chile and supported Pinochet's regime, is the social structure and state of the people. They were interested in the growth of GDP, and the growth of GDP by the poverty of most peoples, which melted the middle layer, and the privileged elite became enormously rich, did not interest them. This model where 100 euros is given to all young people, without any division into those who are unemployed, socially needed and those who, for example, belong to wealthy family circles, is a model that essentially increases social injustice in our society. So you're not just unfair when you're treating each other equally, but when you're treating each other equally. So here was the possibility that this amount of money coming from the budget that our citizens' money was allocated by giving the greater amount of money to the young unemployed and socially needed, and those who are economically secure, who have no consequence of this economic impact that the pandemic caused, should simply not have watered the money. Why was that done? It's not just a mistake. In addition to the fact that the Ministry of Finance is in many segments the successor of the Chicago School of Economics and in the SNS belongs to that wing which is much more Euro-Atlantic-oriented than other parts of the party, in addition, there is one matrix which, in the SNS as a party of the “ketch ol” principle, the party that is constantly campaigning, is constantly in the election campaign, simply such a maneuver is marketingly good ahead of the elections and in this case, with a single amount of money you cover many more future voters, than you have structured this assistance, so you gave a smaller number of socially needed and unemployed more money. So it's clear why it's done. It is clear why we have a problem with SNS as a party that has all sorts of ideas and ideology in its ranks, but essentially SNS ideology comes down to public opinion research and marketing tricks. So, instead of having a clear strategic plan, are you in favour of turning Serbia into a country whose GDP is growing because there are foreign corporations, because one part of society is enormously rich, or are you in favour of Serbia developing by getting what most people need to get to the level of dignity of life, instead of defining strategically that you are then leading our ship in one direction, you, if necessary, take one or another ideology when researching public opinion shows what the people are in the mood. So that's not good, and that leads to at the same time that you have people in the SNS who advocate a Kansas model of economy that takes care of the state, of people who create the state, and we don't have a nice expression in our language. When we say they're ordinary people, that's not a good term. When we say they're normal people, it turns out that those who are too rich are insane. The English have a good expression – common people, meaning people of the community, people who develop solidarity, people who make the country feel good in that space. In contrast, the Chicago School has led to a neoliberal model that has given birth to today's global humane capitalism and all my objections to a party that governments, above all SNS, are that many of the neo-oliberal models, many of the Euro-Atlantic integrations you have in your ranks and it's very problematic when you use it to get elections, and then I still don't know which direction the ship will go in because the research of public opinion that are on the daily level is read and changed daily. So with these means, you could achieve greater social justice. Of course, fewer voters would cover with that amount of money. This is how helicopter money went into the hands of a large number of people, and many of them shouldn't have gotten that kind of help because they're too rich and they belong to a layer that lives very well in this country, and very little is being returned to that country by the poor tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12420	Thank you. The word has a finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12421	Thank you very much. I had to answer and respond to these false and arbitrary claims about the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, you might answer me in the next period when you talk about our whole economic policy being tied up and being led by public opinion. I will remind you of the extremely difficult fiscal consolidation measures in 2014. I don't know if you also think those decisions were about public opinion or a genuine desire for the state of Serbia to get out of bankruptcy, and a step towards bankruptcy has led us to the previous government, and that with both wage cuts and pensions, you may think it was driven by the results of public opinion, I believe it isn't, and I believe that you also believe it isn't. So, we came out honestly to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia -- that, we have to go through difficult reforms, we have to try to stop Serbia's poverty, all that the previous government did, led us to bankruptcy. I will remind you, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in July 2012 there were 8.5 billion dinars on the budget, 8.5 billion dinars, not enough to pay and these monthly pensions. So the very definition of bankruptcy was just that. Today in the account, only comparisons work, we have over 160 billion dinars. Then, in 2014, we implemented heavy fiscal consolidation measures to get, four years in a row, to have a surplus in the budget by 2019. Then I remember you talking about being a better deficit than a surplus, but that is precisely the result of the responsible economic policy that we have led, so one vision, one mission, to save Serbia, and on the other hand, to provide our young people with a better future. So, the difficult fiscal consolidation measures, the decisive fiscal consolidation measures have nothing to do with public opinion, because you can't convince me that any public opinion would support this, and then slowly, year after year, improving our situation, economic activity, raising Serbian citizens' standards, increasing investment in capital investments. Four years, I say, budget surplus. Then came the crisis of the Kovida-19 pandemic, and then we showed all the strength of our economy and the results of the responsible economic policy that we have been leading seven or eight years back. So, we have had enough reserves, enough strength, enough determination, enough courage to react with 8.7 billion euros in aid and citizens and businesses, to save our economy, to have the highest growth rate in Europe in the last two years, at the time of the biggest economic crisis, to have a level of unemployment from 2019, to maintain the stability of our public finances, while today our share of public debt in GDP is 52.1%, so far below the level of the Mastrichts, that last year we have 3.9 billion euros of foreign direct investment, so more than 2019, which confirmed the credibility and trust that investors have in our country. Our deficit is under control, our course is stable. Let me remind you, in 2010, in 2011, that much less economic crisis, in 2011 and 2012, you had double-digit inflation rates, double-digit inflation rates, nothing caused, to irresponsible economic policy. A few days ago I reminded the citizens of Serbia, the IMF ran away in 2011, when he saw the public debt growing uncontrollably, a huge deficit, negative economic growth, hundreds of thousands of people out of work, hundreds of factories closed down. What's that? Responsible economic policy of the previous government, led by what? To fill their private pockets. So now that you have objective results, when you have not to let some Sinisha, or whoever here, says Serbia is successful, we, the respected citizens of Serbia, in December of our credit rating. During and two years after the economic crisis caused by the Kovid-19 pandemic, Serbia is now one step away from the investment rating. You know, ratings and these credit rating agencies are assessing everything literally in your public finances, what your bloodstream, your lungs, your heart, everything. They say Serbia is never better in history for the first time and for the first time in history is just a step away from investment ratings. That rating has the most developed, best, safest countries in the world. I'll show you, to answer your comment on poverty and poverty, look, I don't know how many cameras can bring this closer, this is a chart of unemployment rates in the Republic of Serbia. Look, here, and I'll turn to you to see. So in 2012 – 25.9%, third quarter in 2021, so after two years of the pandemic Kovid-19 – 10.5%, two and a half times less. Wait, in 2012, when your economic policy was implemented, you had that every fourth in Serbia was out of a job, and now there is work. Look further, the rate of economic growth, here, for all citizens of Serbia, you see this yellow here, it's accidentally yellow, otherwise in 2012, minus 0.7%, minus 0.7%, plus 7.4%. Will you convince me that minus 0.7% is better than 7.4%? Look away, let's go, I've got these charts to show you all you want. Look, they say, you have poored Serbia. So wait, guys, look at this. The average salary in 2010 is 331 euros, the average salary is now 610 euros in January. The average salary will be, according to this trend, by the end of 2026, 1,000 euros in Serbia. So wait, isn't 610 euros bigger than 331 euros? And I heard comments, he says -- we're fighting Serbia's poverty. So what the hell are you guys talking about? Never higher wages, never higher pensions in Serbia were more than today. Look at the next chart. Minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia, the big difference between the two pillars, so 15,552 dinars in October 2010, 35,012 dinars in 2021. So more than double the difference between minimum earnings. Fifteen thousand dinars in your time, so you took care of the citizens of Serbia, and 35,000 today. And we're not happy, although this is 300 euros. That's a 9.4% increase in minimum earnings compared to 2021. And we want to increase the minimum income from year to year, to increase the wages, to increase the pensions as well. This help, and I'm going to finish by looking at your comment, Your Honor, you said that some of them are too rich and that's why they shouldn't get help from the state. I assume you were referring to these young people from 16 to 29 years old. I'm glad you think everyone's too rich. They're way too rich for some of them who've been in power before. But this is a very important measure for us, so from 16 to 29 years of age, we want to show our concern for them. We want to tell them that the state is there, that it is there to help them, to give them the support, to get them a job, to support them, and when it comes to buying their first apartment, but also to know when the pandemic is, when the crisis is, that their Serbia is there to support them. They'll spend that money, I've talked about it multiple times, and for buying books, and for paying for exams, but they'll get that sense of security to their country and a sense of responsibility too, to know that the state was there when it was necessary. This is a measure which is also a couple of excels of the measure of economic character, because all that money remains in Serbia, will be spent and will contribute to further growth of our GDP. And for you, if young people are too rich, if you don't think they should get help, so be it, we think they should. We will continue to support our fellow citizens, continue to raise our standard of living through salary increases and through pension increases, but we will also continue to build more beautiful Serbia through new kilometers of highways and further reconstructions of railway lines, fast trains, new clinical centres, new homes of health, new kindergartens, new hospitals. It is a successful, better Serbia, with an average salary by the end of the 1,000-euro term of office of the next government, with an average pension of 500 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12422	The right to replica has Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12423	Young people are not a moral category. Being young does not mean that it is right in itself, so there are young and such. I didn't say that all young people are too rich, but we can't close our eyes that there are young people driving around in overprivileged cars, who proudly step on their fellow citizens, who belong to families who have gone completely wild in this savage privatisation, all of this and no longer care to be socially responsible. That the SNS took advantage of the power it had and don't forget that you're a very specific phenomenon. After the Union of Communists, you are the only party with such power both in parliament and vertically at all levels of government and by how many members you have mobilized and how many voters you have mobilized. So that's one huge responsibility. And as they say to me in Shumadi, sit in the wrong place, and speak straight, I will say that you are right. It is true that this measure was not a courtship for the voters you spoke about in terms of the consolidation of our financial situation. It was a measure that was brave and that showed the right results. Criticizing the SNS, not seeing what's well done, is not a serious criticism. So in that sense, I'm willing to admit that you're right here. We must also be aware that in this position, some occupation in which Serbia is located, which the SNS has not yet begun to remove, often our government must not only think about the current mood of voters, but also about what the IMF thinks and what those who have established an economic colony over us think and that it was sometimes necessary to consolidate that these foreign bosses would be satisfied and that Serbia's economic colonization could be continued. However, the whole truth is that it was good for our country and for our finances, sometimes whoever occupied you and colonized you has the same interests as you, to sort out society, to sort out the finances, and that should have been done, should have supported. But the other one takes too long to invite you to power that 10 years ago stopped being a government, where that power and that Democratic Party that you say is, or I may have misunderstood mine, and I was never a member of it, nor co-operated with them, was much less powerful than you are now and you will be for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12424	The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12425	Just a brief comment. I'm glad that you've admitted the good economic results of this government, simply the traffic light is like that, the result is that only one who doesn't want to see or be maliced and not admit it. I'm glad you admit it. The word – economic colonization is all I didn't understand, I don't know what that means, so I hope you don't think about all those factories that are open in Serbia in the meantime, all those new jobs that hired hundreds of thousands and young and older in our country, the fact that today we're at 10% unemployment rates compared to 25.9% that we had just a few years ago at the time of the former government. I hope you mean that, given that Serbia is sovereign, independent, it makes its own decisions in the policy area, but especially in the area of the economy. I think the results we've achieved are absolutely in favor of that. We brought ourselves heavy measures in 2014. We made our own measurements when the floods were. We were taking measures ourselves when the Kovida-19 pandemic was at stake, but as you can see, each time the results were shown and in favour of the citizens of Serbia. And never again, there are no higher salaries, no pensions, never more miles of highways we build, never in Serbia, the respected citizens of Serbia, were and did not drive a fast train, at a speed of two hundred kilometers per hour, as it will be from March 15th from Belgrade to Novi Sad. It is a picture of a new and successful Serbia and we will continue to fight for both higher salaries and higher pensions and for new jobs and for new factories, these are the citizens of Serbia that we hire, they earn money from it, they live better, so we end up with young people and others coming back to Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12426	I think the minister has also made it clear that there is no basis for continuing replication. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, the People's Parliament, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12427	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, thank you for your gesture this morning, but thank you more for the words of support and gratitude and for recognising the strength of the woman and how important it is for women not only to be in the National Assembly, but to be in all areas of social life. Thank you for recognising that we are equal members of this society. Dear Minister, on today's agenda, we have one but very important law that once again enables direct assistance to our citizens from 16 to 29 years of age. If we know that about a million young people have applied for the first application in half of January, then we see how much this aid means and I don't understand a part of the public criticizing this measure of state, because any aid that is sent to young people is good and shows that the state is thinking about them. The finding of individuals that these are buying young people's votes for the upcoming elections leaves me simply speechless, because I believe that young people cannot be bought, but it is our obligation to fight for them and to ensure that they have a better future. Unique Serbia wants young people to finish high school and colleges, provide them with work and live off their work, and thus stop young people from leaving Serbia. If we are planning priorities in time and in the right way, then there is no problem in investing money in the right things, and the right thing is the proposed law, because this group of citizens to whom the help is concerned is in the schooling phase, or they have just finished schooling and they need more time to make it happen, to get jobs, to get experience so they can qualify to the labour market, and that's why this financial assistance will mean it to them. It is now up to us, or the government to preserve the labour market, expand it, bring investors and open as many factories as possible. Unique Serbia has shown that it does not need functions to work for both citizens and Dragan Markovic Palma has managed to bring 14 foreign investors to Jagodin, and this should be an incentive for other local self-governments to exploit their capacities and not only to wait for the state and government, but to fight for their own city, for their municipality, for their fellow citizens. I think it's the best help for our citizens, to allow them to work and to support their families with their work. So, the Unique Serbia welcomes every help to young people. We have shown through our work years ago that young people are the law for us, that young people are our future and that everything we do, we build and make no purpose unless our children are born, if our villages relax, if the young leave our country. Unique Serbia has supported every decision and any assistance the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent to our citizens and businesses during the pandemic and we will always support every proposal that improves the life of an ordinary citizen. The assistance that health workers received in January, tens of thousands of dinars, may not be much, but it is certainly another way to thank them as a state and repay them for everything they have done in the last two years since the pandemic. They were our pillar of defense from this monster, and we all hope that during the period that is coming to us, that they will have less to do with the crown of the virus and that this situation in which we have been, will teach us that the health system not only of Serbia, but every country must be developed and accessible to every citizen anywhere to live. Unique Serbia has also recognised every effort by our healthcare professionals and, in the organisation of Unity Serbia and its President Dragan Markovic Palma, thousands of healthcare workers flew to Paralya last year and over 300 doctors and nurses stayed in Egypt twice a week. For April this year, it is planned for 140 health workers to fly to Egypt, all thanks to sponsors and good friendly relations between Dragan Markovic and many friends in both Egypt and Greece. When I first said that we support the care of young people, because it is one of the postulates of our party programme, it is not just empty words, years back, where we have the power of decision, such as in Jagodina, children of the final classes of primary and secondary schools, fly to Montenegro, or on the Greek coast, students of the first year of college go to Vienna where they can see what student life looks like in one of the most beautiful capitals of Europe. Unique Serbia always supports and we will always support every way to help our citizens, especially when aid concerns young people. We want Serbia to be a country where young people will stay and build their future in the country they were born in. If we realize that our only goal is, it doesn't matter which foreigners we belong to or which political option we belong to, to preserve Serbia as a country where everyone has equal chances, I believe that in the future we will be a country in which not only will young people from our country remain, but will be the destination of life for many young people from the region. At the very end, I want to say, in front of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, that I hope that after two years, after a challenging year, we have realized and learned that solidarity, empathy, responsibility for one society, that this society is a healthy and good place to live. I believe that in the coming period, we're going to act just like this. In the day to vote, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12428	Thank you. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12429	Thank you, dear Vice President Elvira Kovac. You're always kind, at least half the year I've been in the Assembly. Dear colleagues, MPs and MPs, it is my honor today to congratulate all citizens and citizens Trivundan and Winemaker's Day, as well as Valentine's Day, so whoever likes to celebrate, I think it is both to celebrate very positive and good, and to have and to be a good product. Since this is the last session in this session of Parliament, I would especially like to thank the President of the Ivica Dacic Assembly for one maesteral leadership and one good atmosphere, to thank my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, for one serious relationship with work, and for what is not seen in front of the cameras, and that is our relationship, so that citizens and citizens know that we have had a good atmosphere here, one working atmosphere, and that we have passed many laws that are important, as is one of today, and that is 100 euros for young people, without who they belong to, whether they are rich or not, as we have heard for a moment. I also want to thank Minister Malo, who is really, as far as I am concerned, always coming and staying until the end that he and the government's bill and that part of the financial that is there, is there with us, and that he can explain it to us in one way and that in the end he is also what is the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and all of this for the benefit of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As I said today, it is a special pleasure for me to say as the MP of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group – Ivica Dacic to participate in the work of the National Assembly, in the adoption of the law, I will say as an additional 100 euros for young people in Serbia, as they would say, and that is what I want to say in the newly created joke, as a member of a generation of those who belong between 100 euros and 20,000 dinars, is the most of us. I'm particularly proud of that. Belonging to that generation means providing and caring for young people, and also caring for those older ones who built this country. The joke is beautiful, but since the minister and honourable MP Glisic also mentioned the Union of Communists, to say the SSRN once took care of those positive jokes that were made among citizens and citizens, so they were also managed politically. In these days, back in 1987, I was elected Secretary of the SSO Kladov. That was a long time ago, and I know what it's like to care about young people as a future, although often it's the level of the floscule that happens. Today it is a reality and in particular, the country's most expressed concern for its future, and the bearers of the future are young people I personally expect Serbia to always be in the heart wherever it is, and as descendants of the greats and of the Serbian history, selflessly help to develop its Serbia and all its citizens and citizens, and to bear our name proudly, wherever they are in the world. I will quote a great man, who did not get 100 euros and who never complained about it, who went across the ocean, who celebrated our name, as long as there is a modern world and technology we will be as Serbs known for it, and that is Nikola Tesla who said, back in 1892, to visit Belgrade, the following words – "If I am lucky to realize, at least some of my ideas, it will be a charity for all humanity. If that hope is fulfilled, the sweetest thought will be that it is the work of a Serb. “ Dear young people, please don’t buy into all sorts of stories, this National Assembly of yours, this National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia today will vote, this National Assembly of those 100 euros, and we don’t get carried away by why they are 100 euros. You justify it by working in the future and you always love your country, and politically how anyone will do anything, the same in a democratic society is allowed, only it is part of cultural and civilization values. I didn't expect to say this today in the discussion, but something happened, as an old stockholder, and many of the shareholders, I think there are former shareholders here, left us one big actioner who knew the entire former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and this is Aleksandar Radojicic, known throughout Yugoslavia as the Aca tractor. That tractor got because it worked and built the country so strongly that it was like a tractor and that's why it got that nickname. Otherwise, he is a legendary participant of work actions, over shifts at former SFRY premises as a brigade, commander of many youth working brigades, member of the Youth Action headquarters, multiple strikers and winner of numerous social recognitions, a true leader and a protection mark of the action movement in which he left an indelible mark. Dear young people, and you who represent us here today in front of the government of the country, I hope that we will all contribute and represent each and every way in the future, from Kladov. In Kladova, the famous Karatash Action Village, today a youth camp, the need and what we all follow through social networks, and in general, is that one action, as the ORA "Gerdap", will be again, for at least a month and that one kind of funding will be invested in these young people, because people, representatives from the entire region, or former SFRY, would come. Dear Minister, I know that you too are a man who is enthusiastic and is fighting for young people, for everything he does for sport, find the means, watch with the Ministry of Sports and with the Sports Agency, and that for at least one month we repeat our work on Gerdap, we will have tourist and all kinds of benefits from it, believe me. All those watching this television broadcast today, both from former space and former Yugoslavia, will surely confirm it. There's something else I'd like to ask you since you're here. Since we helped pensioners, the Association of Pensioners and Disabilities has been having a problem for several years, and it serves, and it has been directed to over 2500 pensioners and disabled workers in Kladovo. They're power out, they're out of heat. Help as a ministry through your services in co-operation with local self-government to find a solution. Local self-government has money. It's not a big debt to solve it, to just legally frame it and to solve it, because, believe me, it's such a benign problem, but it can produce some other coincidences. My experience here, for at least half a year, is that we all take care of all categories of society and all organizations. So, I expect you to record that. I know you're a responsible man and you'll certainly be in contact with local self-government where there's a temporary organ down there, to find a solution to certain taxes that aren't met for some others, not to say which reasons, simply, is due for heating and electricity. And today, in the 21st century, when I quote Nikola Tesla, it's a shame that the Association of Pensioners and Disabilities in Kladovo has power out. It's prescribed for all of us. I know none of us are to blame. I know you're the right address, and I know we're all going to solve this funny problem together and get rid of it. I sincerely thank you in advance, because I know you have so far shown in countless places in Serbia, as far as my information is concerned, that you have come out and that, personally, I expect you to know, as a man. Finally, I want to congratulate the citizens of Serbia tomorrow's state holiday Meeting and to wish all of us in particular a reasonable and responsible election campaign, everyone who participates in the election of good results, us, I will not be immodest, best and in this spirit to continue our work and to allow the state of Serbia as well as its citizens and citizens, because if someone in this part of Europe and in the world at all is all living exaggeration, which our people would say over their backs, and that is why this is our people, and that is why all these decisions that we make are very important. My dear colleague, I am sorry that he is not present, Glisic, and I will end up with that, he said that 100 euros should not be given to everyone. At one point as president of the Kladov municipality, I introduced that all high school students have free transportation. One of the answers, since we, to say pesoriaticly, is the Gusterbait area, so someone in the family had a paroled grandmother who was receiving a foreign pension and I had an objection to how these people get all because the grandmother, rich, receives a foreign pension, and I ask the following: when the child goes to school in September, and God forbid the grandmother dies in October, what are we going to do? Therefore, give everyone as much as you can, because this youth will love and bring back Serbia and all citizens and help our oldest, and to the new generation between 100 euros and 20,000, it is up to us to continue to work and enable everyone to have a stronger budget, or GDP, and that we can achieve many quality results for all our citizens and citizens. Thank you. One more time, you're alive and well.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12430	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12431	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today is on the agenda of a bill providing material support for young people 16 to 29 years of age. It is another 100-euro financial aid. The first 100 euros was given to this group of young people only two weeks ago. This measure is also protective because it refers to the removal of the pandemics Kovid-19, but it is also stimulating, because these generations of young people mean a lot. As for young people who are mainly in the process of secondary and higher education, the government's measure will also be an additional source of income that can enable additional investment in their own standard. What is positive is that this aid is paid from real sources, i.e. budget revenues, which is, above all, about the economic strength of our country, about its macroeconomic stability, about economic growth, GDP growth with the best indicators in the region. Without young people, no society can count on a better future and development. Young people are the bearers of progress, new knowledge, innovation and, with older ones, who have a pool of knowledge and experience, tomorrow they will be able to take responsibility for the future. Young people are creative, and they are a difolt for a socially fair society, but in order to get involved in social life and the decision-making process, they must be given a chance. This chance is given by this government to young people through a series of incentive measures, starting with better schooling and studying conditions through greater employment and family creation conditions. This government and the Assembly have truly dedicated themselves to the future of our country and society, passing laws that are good and offer perspectives. We must count on young people, but we must also stimulate them to be drivers of positive social trends and make society better, because youth itself carries a different view of the world. Today at the last session of the National Assembly in this conference, I would like to first thank all fellow Members of Parliament for their cooperation. I believe that together we share the views that this congregation was dynamic, but also creative and responsible enough. A large number of adopted laws and other acts testify, but this is confirmed by all other forms of parliamentary work - committees, parliamentary groups of friendships, delegations in foreign organisations. Of course, I would especially like to praise the dynamics, energy, diplomatic experience and, accordingly, all the results that we have achieved as Parliament thanks to it. It is, of course, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, who has given his special seal to this meeting, and we Socialists have sought to monitor its dynamics and try to make our contribution as coalition partners and create a better and more socially fair society. Socialists are always on the right side, on the side of their people, on the side of social justice and on the side of the future. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will definitely back the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12432	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12433	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, makes way for us to finish the session, a session that will end with a single vote. As I said last time to a respected minister, let's make a proposal that will be implemented through the budget for next year and every year, which is that every new year we start with 100 euros to our youngest and that will be a proposal that I will present today simply as a small token of attention. Nor will those 100 euros enrich our young people, nor will our budget poverty them, but it is nice that they simply know that the state is thinking of them. All these years, and I'm also talking about these years, these have been years of severe crisis, the economic crisis that has gone to the root of the crisis and the combination of the economic and the co-existence of the crisis has been extremely difficult for all the countries in the world. Some have managed better, some worse, some catastrophic, and one of the countries that has managed to do the impossible is to come out of this most difficult economic and peer crisis as a winner, and in the right sense of that word, this is exactly the state of Serbia and, above all, thanks to its president who has had a vision and knew how to go through in the best possible way and to do almost impossible. Those who criticize daily, I don't even know what they're criticizing? Somebody ask – what are you people talking about, what are you talking about? Is it possible for someone to accuse... Believe it or not... In fact, do you believe that they have filed criminal favors against the president for the assistance voted by this Assembly, which this Assembly has been declared, and on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Let them serve them honor, let our fellow citizens explain why they are doing what they are doing, but given how they behave and how they are demanding every way to speak uglyly about our beautiful Serbia and to see in everything something that is not good, they will simply not bring them any votes, but let them think about it. It's a special story that those who claim to have no freedom of the media and that they have no freedom of expression say that all the time on some media. I don't know how they can say that if they don't have a chance to say what they're thinking. They have their own media, both N1 and N2 and N I don't know how long, but I'd like to hear it, and it's very important that citizens understand who owns these Gilas media, N1 and beyond, and who owns "Telecom of Serbia", MTS, or Mobile Phones of Serbia. Owner of Nova – Gilas, Šolak and someone else on the team. It's clear that every penny you give them has been given to put in their private pockets. On the other hand, you should know, in fact, you know for sure who owns Telecom Serbia, MTS. The owner of Telekom Srbija is the state of Serbia and citizens of Serbia. Any citizen who pays any compensation or bill he received from Telecom paid himself, he added it to his register. Now that's the basic difference between Telecom and Nova 1, 2, 3 and I don't know how far. That is, among other things, the fundamental difference between the way Gilas thinks, a machine brain that only thinks about how to take the money and put it in his private pocket. On the other hand, Telecom Serbia, which only thinks about how best to provide the best service for the least money to its citizens. And how this service to provide everyone, both in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Šapac, Kragujevac, and in every village and in every village and the farthest house from any city center. And, for the record, paying school TV is paying Gilas and his thief team. Every payment to Telecom Serbia, the introduction of money into the bank of its fellow citizens, i.e. in a bank of the state of Serbia, from which everyone has the right and from this budget and these 100 euros for our youngest citizens. The Kovid crisis was an excuse for many to stop doing anything, while the covid of the crisis was an excuse to do even more, even better, and for those results to be visible to everyone. What's certainly a question for everyone, and for this Assembly, it's a question of going to elections, it's a question of checking out what we've been doing in the past years, and what have some others been doing? Among other things, it is voluntary for anyone who thinks he has the support of his fellow citizens to come out nicely on the list, bring his support and stand on the line. It's no problem that those who invented different conditions made up different reasons not to go to the election, so they got everything on the list, everything they wrote, they got. And we are just expecting that in these elections, where last week, we made a decision not to have most SNSs in the city and municipal election committees, or most of those who have truly absolute support for their fellow citizens, but there are the majority in municipal, urban and all other commissions. She's the story they're talking about, and that's the story of someone buying the election, stealing the election and who, they're talking about buying. People are used to buying, so they thought if they could buy the Southampton football club, they could buy the president's place as well. Gentlemen, to inform you, the position of Serbian President is not for sale. In order for someone to be president of Serbia, he should first run, someone should run for office, raise a number of votes and show on April 3rd that the majority of Serbia supports him. So, from shopping, gentlemen, there's nothing. I am sure that all those who think well, and that is the majority of Serbia, who think well of this Serbia, who think well of our children, but who, of course, think of our oldest, who think of all those who need help all these difficult years. Again, we helped both young and old, and businesses, and agriculture, and in the public sector, and in the private sector. And there is no one vertically, or horizontally who in different ways has received a boost precisely from whom, of course, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is the budget of all citizens and that is what is natural and that is how it works and how this ministry will function, but also this state of Serbia. If everything is in accordance with the law, and that's the only way for the elections to be regular, and it will be the most regular possible given that at this point in time 16 000, at least they've been given 16,000 places that they can fill and control and be members of these election commissions, as far as I can see, that's a thought noun for them. They'll probably have to pay, they've got money, so they'll pay who's gonna be in their polling stations. We from the SNS have a problem in choosing people who are interested in being there and protecting the electoral will of Serbian citizens. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Thank you to President Alexander Vukic for everything he has done in the last 10 years, especially in this most difficult hoof of years and thank him for everything we can see that has been done for all these years, but thank him for what we expect and what it will certainly be and thank the citizens who are waiting for April 3rd to confirm their support for Alexander Vukic and the politics for our children, and as will our slogan "We can do everything together", I will end it, and we can do everything together and be together before April 3rd, and of course, after April 3rd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12434	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12435	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, peasants say, "Who sows well, that good and reaps." So, it's easy to have a full cash register, but it's supposed to come in first. The country was to be organised, investment was to be raised, factories were to be raised. In parallel, infrastructure was to be built, so investors would be interested in locating their investments in the Republic of Serbia. It was also necessary for the political leadership of the state to make such a kind of political ambience that those who wanted to invest, to encounter a good economic environment, i.e. to have their reasons and to have incentives to invest their money in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, this was necessary after 2012, when the country was completely destroyed, when money could not be earned, when the economy could not deliver enough money for its population. Let me just remind you that in 2012, the monthly salary fund was 560m euros, and now the salary fund has exceeded a billion and 200, nearly a billion and 300m euros at the monthly level, which automatically means more full pension disability funds, so that means pension-paying security, too, health funds, building health homes, hospitals, etc. Everything in the economy and the development of the economy has been renewed. This is how budget revenues have also increased due to the increase in salary, the increase in investment, and the budget has increased by two times compared to 2012 and thus there is enough money in the budget to help certain categories of the population. Just to remind myself that the incentives in agriculture, which is very important, especially in these conditions, every honor of IT technologies and revenues, are very important, but agriculture guarantees, especially in the conditions of these crises, pandemics and possible conflicts and conflicts on European soil, so agriculture guarantees us the food security of the population and guarantees us food sovereignty and some soft power in the region, because we have enough food for our population, we have significant surpluses and those who have less food, especially in the region, have to take care of it in political relations with Serbia, that in a certain way depend on our exports of agricultural and food supplies. By the way, it all came together, there's plenty of money. This state depends on the money made, not on the money in charge, as it was until 2012. Salaries have grown significantly. More than 400,000 citizens were employed in 2012, so instead of, say, a million 600, 700 thousand, we now have employees over two million. This included grants from the pension budget needed at a lower level than they were in 2012, when pensions were paid out of the budget almost 50%. All of this has brought better weapons of our army, more security of our citizens. All this has brought about a better supply of our market. All of this has brought this extra money, which is being paid to younger categories this time. They can't convince me it's because of the election, because, say, sixteen-year-olds don't have the right to choose, and they're covered by these measures. I also welcome the fact that pensioners with 20,000 dinars have been touched, because they are reduced in such a way that the difference, if you increase in percentages, then the difference between the least and the biggest pensions is growing, and this when pensions and pensioners do so once or twice, then the biggest profits are those with the lowest pensions that are the most necessary of these kinds of support. I'd like to do it in a certain way, which is the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, to touch at this point to have as many agricultural and food supplies as possible, to touch nitrogen fertilisers, to subsidize with an additional 20% of the price, so that mineral fertilisers can be bought as often as possible. So, to buy as many mineral fertilisers as possible, to save the wheat, because cereals are agricultural products that will pass in the next period, to save existing cereals, winter crops, and to make certain quantities of nitrogen fertilisers preparation for the sowing of corn and industrial plants. That would give us more money. If we don't save enough, we can lose 10% of our contribution, which if it adds corn and wheat, it could reach about 800,000 tonnes, or so much we could have more grains, wheat and corn if we further subsidize, if there is room in the budget to additionally subsidize the savings of winter crops and spring crops, so that we can also provide the food security of the population, but also the food sovereignty of this country, which certainly exists. That is why the Committee on Agriculture also recommended that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture consider our proposal, as this is very important for us in view of the development of the situation in Ukraine, which is a major exporter of cereals and Russia. Russia has banned the export of its cereals. If we don't save enough, we won't have any significant quantities in export. If we lose some export markets, those markets will be occupied by some other producers. It would be necessary, given that protests appear on our roads, to see if it is possible with five to six billion dinars to subsidize additional buying and use of mineral fertilisers. I think our farmers would make more production to increase exports, and most importantly I believe that they would also give some results in processing and that they would increase GDP and in a certain way that money would come to us. It is also important for the processing of agricultural products, for the food industry, to keep this exports at least five billion dollars a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12436	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12437	Ladies and gentlemen, when they criticise the state's decision to grant young people another 100-euro aid, the opposition says -- that's our money, it's the money of all Serbian citizens that the state took from citizens, and now divides them into help. First, all the money the state of Serbia has and any other state in the world is citizens' money. All these money is directly or indirectly taken from citizens, either through direct taxes, taxes or through economics. Secondly, I guess even at a time when they were in power 15 years ago, the money they were in the state budget was our money, but they didn't give that money to the citizens of Serbia. I remind you that at the time, the standard of Serbian citizens was worse than today. So there was a greater need for state intervention, there was a greater need for the state to help its citizens. The opposition, part of the opposition, also criticises us for allegedly spreading hate speech. Far from being innocent, but now you'll hear what kind of speech individual representatives of the opposition are serving. Seven days ago, an opposition portal published a text entitled “The Shots of the Vucician Media Martyrs Through the LORD. ” This "SPODI" is written in large letters, I guess it would be more convincing, and "HOSTES" are Vladeta Jankovic and Zdravko Ponos. " LORD" is expected to behave gentlemen and to use the gentleman's dictionary, especially when it comes to a professor of literature, a man who is 82 years old, a man who was a diplomat, an ambassador of Serbia to the Vatican and London, and especially when it comes to a man who is running to be the first in Belgrade to be mayor of Belgrade. The gentleman's dictionary is particularly expected from one general, former Yugoslav Army Chief of Staff of the Yugoslav Army, who is running to be president of the state, the president of Serbia. First began by Vladeta Jankovic. He was responding to criticisms addressed to his account because of his statement that the monument to Stefan Nemanja should be moved from Sava Square to another location in Marinko's bar, he said: "Marinko's bar is a fairy tale abused by the advanced Botov gang. These are pastures released from the chain." So he practically compared him to the pastures. Just a day or two later, the DOS candidate for the president of Serbia, Zdravko Ponos, also compared his critics to dogs, with Mr. Ponos's view being not about pastures, which he will say is not about ordinary dogs, but rather about some race of dogs with a pedigre called "trained dogs". Namely, speaking on N1 TV about criticism on his own account, he said: "I'm afraid someone has let trained dogs do it, and when such dogs bite someone, then the owner always responds." It is clear that the owner of the dogs is Aleksandar Vucic, and that the trained dogs are all officials of ruling parties, numerous journalists, analysts, and those citizens who proudly criticise that he is too fond of NATO's pact, who believe it is a shame that during the Krajina war he was not in Knin, which he did not fight there, defended his house, but sat in Belgrade and what they believe is also the fact that, in his time, the Army of Yugoslavia, the current Serbian Army is quite deposed. And if these offensive expressions were not a coincidence he confirmed and mentioned the portal, I will not name it, the portal that Jankovic and Ponoša called "HOSPODOM", the portal published on February 9th by a comic book titled "Tabloid Lions". The comic book content is two drawn dogs jumping furiously in the photo of Zdravko Ponoša. The dictionary used in political accounts in Serbia has long been broken to a bar level, the fact that there is no big difference between parties, calling political opponents thieves, traitors, criminals, etc. has become a daily phenomenon. It comes about as "good afternoon", but I really don't remember that in the political arena, especially when it comes to politicians of the highest rank in Serbia, such terms have been used to call their political opponents dogs. It is particularly inappropriate when such a speech introduces into Serbian political life a man who is a professor of literature, a man who is a former diplomat, a man who is 82 years old, a man who is running to be mayor of Belgrade and when such speech, an inappropriate speech, introduces a general, retired general, former Yugoslav Army chief, who is running to be president of the state, to be president of Serbia, not only of all citizens, but of all citizens of Serbia, regardless of their political commitment. Finally, I am taking the opportunity to ask Mr. Minister to take advantage of his unquestionable authority in the government that, publicly speaking, it is a little Urgic to start with the planned works on the reconstruction of the Savanovac-Krnjevo – Smederjevska Palanka road, which is in very poor condition, and that the Government finds the means to reconstruct the road of Markovac – Velika Plana – Lozovik, known as the Carigrad Drum in some reasonable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12438	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12439	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are pleased to have you back here today with us to discuss and discuss and share with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the good news, to adopt in Parliament this proposal aimed at showing that the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the State, Mr Alexander Vukic, is taking care of all social groups. The other day, the pensioners could see it. They were paid 20,000 dinars of one-time aid. Young people saw it, too. All those living in Serbia see, all citizens of Serbia who finally have such power to care for all of them and who care about the future not only of our children, but of all the people who live and work in the Republic of Serbia. This is an indicator of one of the ambience SNS wants to make, which is that Serbia is one of the most progressive countries, the most modern countries, which currently has economic growth, so for 2021, economic growth of 7.5%, which is the highest rate of economic growth in all of Europe, showing everyone globally that Serbia can be champion in many areas of social life. This is about a clear vision, one of the political wisdom, but also one of the great knowledge of all those who deal with the economy in this country, to direct it in a good way. We have shown that this pandemic that has hit the whole world that Serbia has successfully overcome it, given that, even today, we can boast of that fact, 62% of foreign direct investment goes right to the Republic of Serbia. Many people, well-intentioned people from all over the world simply say and make such a conclusion that President Aleksandar Vukic simply knows how to do it, knows how to make an ambience, knows simply strategic policy and strategic goals of the country in which we should go in order to make this ambience where we have become a country in which everyone from around the world is very happy to invest, very happy to fertilize capital, to live in this country. That is why Serbia is one of the most prospective business destinations not only in the Western Balkans territory, but in total across Europe. I want to say another very important thing, which is that this is exactly how, through these moves we show one great responsibility to everyone. We show that we do not share the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in any way and show how responsible we really are, how much the difference between one responsible government, one responsible and serious leadership and those people, the tycoon-political camel that led this country until 2012, which led there so-called. Comprador economic policy. To explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia why the comparative economic policy, you know who the compradors are, Mr. Minister? Compradors are people during the British - Chinese war, these are the people of China who supported the UK and who helped the UK sell opium in China at that time, although one huge part of the population and government in China, of course, resisted it, because it was going to harm the health and economy of China and the Chinese people. Exactly 150, 160 years after that, you have a country in Europe that had just been ruled by compradors who were not absolutely a priority of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the interest of the country in which they lived and which, unfortunately, they had an opportunity to lead, but were doing exactly the opposite things by bringing this country into the position of a very dependent country from foreign centres of power, from influences that had nothing to do with the interests of citizens and peoples in the Republic of Serbia. Today, Serbia is leading an independent policy. Today President Aleksandar Vukic has the same position and is also talking to his colleagues in Beijing. I must remind our citizens that two weeks ago he received a huge confession and met with the president of the People's Republic of China, Mr. Si, and strengthened what the Chinese would have said themselves – a steel partnership between our two countries, as he did with many countries that are of strategic importance for the development of the Republic of Serbia and which contributed and helped to the so-called country. The quantum leap in the economy and the kind of economic growth that has shown on the ground that nothing is impossible for Serbia anymore, that through one dedicated and good work and of course one good and quality political doctrine and political programme, which the SNS defined at its assembly in October of last year, for this country, for this people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia has no limits. Of course, there are no restrictions on the economy. There are no limits on development, but there are no limits when it comes to, and any obstacles, the protection of vital national interests and the interest of the Serb people wherever they live. So today President Alexander Vukic is not the problem of telling our US partners that sanctions policy is not good, that it will not contribute to regional stability. Today, Serbia has the strength to say this because it is an economic and political and military and in every other way an independent and independent country and that is one of the key points of our programme that will definitely determine and determine the future of this country, the future of the Republic of Serbia and the future of this people after 3 April this year. In doing so, all of us here who are members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will respond, give strong support to President Vukic because it is not easy today to maintain such a level of independent and independent policy, while through a balanced approach you remain a reliable partner with many great powers and world players who have interests in this part of the world, but what is the crown of Vucicic's policy to preserve peace, to preserve regional stability and to move forward towards regional integration and initiatives by building infrastructure, both hard and soft, both highways, railways, airports, and scientific centres, investments in higher education and in our staff, to build the Republic of Serbia together with us, along with SNS, together with President Alexander Vukic. The key thing that separates us from those who, as in the 2000-2012 period, would be to get the authorities, referring here to this private Gilas company, the Šolakov private company whose all party so-called. The officials work in this company, they are employed and live, in fact, and alive from Gilas' charity, the key difference between us is that we simply want to build this country on a real basis, we are doing this and taking care of our citizens, and what we are hopefully all going to vote for today, we come to this on a realistic basis on the basis of all the valuable and caring work that has resulted in us giving, that we can help, that we can be socially responsible. I keep repeating here in the National Assembly that SNS is a conservative party, the right center, but we have shown how and what is the model, which is that you can also take care of those who are at risk, and of endangered social groups, and of minorities, marginal social groups, and you can only do it one way. If your economy is strong, if you maintain the level of your economy so that you can earn so much, that you can help someone, to give, to create a better environment and to do what Vukic has done in Serbia, of course, with your best help. I'm always saying that you guys are doing your job in a really, really good way and you've shown it in a crisis situation. As for crisis management, it has been important for us over the past few years to have great results and, of course, we will continue. Vucic is not thinking of Serbia as it will look like on April 4th, Vucic is thinking of what Serbia will look like in 10, 20 and 30 years. We, of course, continue to work hard and lead such a policy, because we know that only through strengthening the economy and stability, political and political here in the country and in the region can we make the success that the Serbian people and all those peoples living in the Republic of Serbia deserve. That is why strong support for both you and President Alexander Vukic in our campaign, the struggle to show our results, but also to show what we are going to do in the next four years at all levels, both at national and local levels. I sincerely hope that President Aleksandar Vucic will also be the SNS presidential candidate, whom we will strongly support, given that he has plebiscite support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to continue and do everything he has planned over the past few years in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12440	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday 14 February 2022, starting at 17.30 a.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 18th extraordinary session of the Serbian Assembly in the 12th session. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours with the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2022-02-14-0.u12441	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 190 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Interim Registrar of the State of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age to which the monetary aid is paid for the mitigation of the consequences of the pandemic of CovID-19 caused by Sars-Cov-2. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the Interim Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years old, which is being paid for financial assistance to mitigate the effects of the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 190, for – 188, abstention – one, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law supplementing the Law on the Interim Register of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia from 16 to 29 years of age, which pays cash aid to mitigate the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the only item of this agenda and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly.
