ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u1	The next item is the questions on the situation in EHPAD. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u2	Minister of Solidarity and Health, the crisis in EHPADs – residential institutions for dependent seniors – revealed in 2018, has added the issue of the high age and ageing of the population to the pile of files you have had to deal with. You have ordered numerous reports, all produced and published. In spite of all this, necessity and timeliness making law, the bill on the old age that was promised to us for 2019 has been doubled on the left by the crisis of yellow vests, on the right by the crisis in hospitals, and has just been hit by the reform of pensions. We are in a time of wish: I believe that many parliamentarians working on this subject, the professionals you meet regularly and all the actors are waiting for this famous law on old age and autonomy. Beyond its professional nature, it is a law that I hope will say a lot about the ageing policy we want and how we approach the phenomenon of ageing in our society. Madam Minister, could you give us a little time frame on what is ahead of us in 2020, and provide us with the broad guidelines on the professions of older age, particularly in terms of governance and funding? These are important points, very much expected by all the actors. The crisis of the EHPADs was the main indicator of the essential nature of the professions of the older age. It will be necessary to simplify governance and clarify who leads policies: this is important for both actors and families. Finally, perhaps you can give some details about what has been missed? We're getting older, it's life. Would a policy of prevention reduce the need for reforms on the subject of dependency in the years to come?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u3	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u4	Thank you for this very broad question. Through the questions that will be asked to me during the evening, I will probably have the opportunity to revisit several of the points that you have addressed; So I'll start with the calendar. The 2017 EHPAD crisis highlighted a real problem that we need to anticipate: the ageing of the population. Even if we have time, since we know that the demographic shift is only expected by 2030, we must prepare it. Today, in institutions, staff, professionals, but also families and the elderly already suffer from a lack of presence at their side. We need to work on this. As you know, I took it on board as soon as I arrived, as I accelerated the introduction of the financial measures that accompanied tariff convergence, so as to help institutions recruit more staff. We have already mobilized significant sums, even if they are not enough to settle the residential turn that ageing people are calling for. We also need to rethink the professions of old age, particularly in terms of attractiveness. With regard to the calendar, in 2018 we launched a broad citizen consultation at the national level, which mobilised ten national workshops and five regional forums. This large national consultation, which attracted more than 1.7 million votes, was attended by 414,000 participants. One hundred bilateral meetings and groups of expressions of older people, professionals and caregivers were organized. All this allowed us to build a strategy, on which I will return in the evening. As far as funding is concerned, we have released €500 million from the PLFSS – the Social Security Financing Bill – which will allow staff to be recruited in 2020. Finally, Dominique Libault's report will, of course, allow us to include in the law the broad guidelines of the national strategy. The timetable is clear: as the President of the Republic has said in his wishes, this bill will be introduced in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u6	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u7	Minister, a national plan for older trades was announced on March 28, 2019. A total of 830,000 people are working full-time in this area, which is expected to increase as a result of the ageing of the population. At the same time, in the same vein and with a view to the future law on autonomy and old age, you have recently entrusted Denis Piveteau with a mission on the diversification of the places of reception for the least autonomous people, in order to knit the whole territory. Your willingness to make departments the first actors in this field will allow the emergence of genuine governance at the local level. However, it would be desirable to change the supply of support by limiting stakeholders and reorganising the trades. Indeed, the weight of dependence weighs on EHPADs, which are under-manageable. On the other hand, the lack of attractiveness of the healthcare professions in EHPAD is the subject of a shared observation by all actors. In view of the challenges of the evolution of the management and transformation of the professions, the actors also call for the mobilisation of all the levers contained in the proposals of Dominique Libault, rapporteur of the national consultation "Great Age and Autonomy", in order to provide a response adapted to the needs. As you said yourself, Madam Minister, in order to drastically increase the attractiveness of the sector, the upgrading of the professions of old age is essential. What about it? And how do we link the training of caregivers and the limitation of workers with the increase in the number of older people?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u8	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u9	Mrs Béatrice Descamps, thank you for your question and, more generally, for your commitment, that I have long known on this subject. As you know, on 3 July I entrusted Mrs Myriam El Khomri with the preparation of a report on the attractiveness of the professions of old age and autonomy: she gave it to me in October. It reveals, shared by all professionals in the sector, a fragmentation of the trades, an inability to recruit and a defect in vocations. However, it seems to us that very many young people could now move towards these professions which have meaning and are not delocalised: these are jobs of the future. As demographic changes over the next twenty years force us to reflect on the attractiveness of these occupations, we have chosen three areas of work. The first concerns the upgrading of trades, including financial ones. The second axis concerns initial and continuing training, which must be completely reviewed and adapted to the knowledge of the loss of autonomy that we have today. Finally, the objective of the third axis is to have a long-term budget for home care. The implementation of these proposals requires the support and voluntarism of a large number of actors – I am thinking in particular of local and regional authorities, departments, social partners, employers and their federations – we wish to launch, together with the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, a major social conference on the professions of old age. The resulting recommendations and the implementation of the desired reforms will be incorporated into the national plan for older trades and into the bill. It is therefore a major commitment of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u10	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u11	Madam Minister, having presided over an EHPAD in Rixheim, in the Mulhusian region for more than ten years, I had allowed myself in one of the very first question sessions in the Government of the legislature to draw the Government's attention to the situation of the EHPADs. He responded with a series of measures which, of course, remain insufficient. You know the situation: it is increasingly difficult, whether for staff or, from a health point of view, for patients and residents; and as you said yourself, it will not improve in light of demographic changes. Today, it is precisely a matter of knowing how to manage this demographic mass. Given that an additional 1500 EHPADs cannot be built tomorrow, close to 1.6 million more dependent elderly people will have to be kept at home, and probably even hospitalized there. There is therefore an entire system to be built, taking into account three major elements: first, the introduction of a one-stop shop. When dependency occurs, families are in a tragic situation because they have to organize an entire system and knock at 36 doors. It's very complicated. Secondly, the holes in the racket must be filled: many professions are still not practised in the liberal and home, such as the caregiving profession, so that it is often nurses who are obliged to take on this type of work. Finally, it is necessary to organise the overall coordination with the technical platforms of the hospital centres, with due regard for medical confidentiality. Madam Minister, what does the Government intend to do to develop home maintenance and hospitalization, in other words to coordinate the whole system of dependency that remains to be built today?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u12	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u13	Your question is broad: I will come back to the professions of old age and training by answering other questions. With regard to the residential turn, there are several levers, but I will deal more precisely with the way I envisage it. It was very clear from the citizen consultation that the French want to age at home. We must therefore organize the residential shift on all territories, in both rural and urban areas. You asked the question very well: the multiplicity of actors makes coordination extremely complicated for families. In the territories there are networks of EHPAD, but also networks of home maintenance, which develop in very different forms and various names: the EHPADs "outside the walls", which provide several services, the EHPADs at home, but also service platforms. I also had the opportunity to visit the EHPADadom of the Red Cross in Sartrouville in December, which offers a real range of services. The interest of this mechanism was highlighted in Dominique Libault's report, as it seems to meet the demands, needs and needs you mentioned, including the construction of a one-stop shop for families. My wish is therefore to develop this type of structure, perhaps also to rationalise and evaluate them, and to strengthen the link between personal assistance, prevention of loss of autonomy, medical and social support and care, thanks to these structures capable of ensuring better coordination. I therefore hope that these two mechanisms will develop, which is why we have provided in Article 51 for the Social Security Financing Law for 2018 several experiments, including one, very ambitious, which is expected to be launched very soon. The idea is to complement the responses provided by home services, in order to build what will be the EHPAD at home or the residential turn of tomorrow, with the corollary being the improvement of coordination with the health sector – what we do through territorial support platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u14	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u15	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] I want to extend the reflections of my colleagues, and in particular that of Béatrice Descamps, on the attractiveness of trades. As you yourself have indicated, these trades in the non-market economy are not delocalized. It is not normal for EHPADs to find it difficult to recruit, and it is neither populist nor demagogic to say that hospital officers, staff, caregivers and nurses working in these institutions are not paid enough. I would add, Madam Minister, that you are not, to date, responsible for this situation. Is there an information document that would allow residents and their families to understand each other's share of care? There are several tariff sections: accommodation, dependency and care, which are the responsibility of the family of the resident, the department and the State respectively. Does a teaching document explain this to families? My second question concerns labour law. Remuneration is subject to a collective agreement. Where I live in Brittany, I am often told about the 1951 collective agreement, which should be renovated and updated. Are you planning to do so, so that wages can be re-evaluated? Finally, are you considering allowing a differentiated day price based on the resident's resources? I do not hear that we are involved in the competence of the departmental councils, but it seems to me that this subject deserves to be addressed. One might imagine that the daily price is different depending on whether the resident receives 5000 or 1000 euros of retirement. What do you think about these three questions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u16	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u17	Mr Benoît, you have asked me many questions which I will try to answer quickly. It is certain, first of all, that these trades require a salary revalorisation. I started working on it with the implementation of the Gerontology Care Assistant Award. All health-care workers working with the elderly in the public sector, in EHPAD or in a geriatrics department, have since this year had access to a bonus of 100 euros net per month – a significant sum – since they received training as a care assistant in gerontology. This is a short training course, which allows them to receive this bonus very quickly and to better understand the care of aging people. Secondly, with regard to triple pricing, we are working to simplify it because, as a result of this system, residents and their families, in particular, find it difficult to understand who is paying what. No doubt we need to simplify the distribution between the costs of dependency and those related to care. In fact, geriatricians now consider that dependence or loss of autonomy is intimately linked to the disease and that a patient is not in loss of autonomy without suffering from an underlying pathology. The distinction between dependence and care is delicate, even if, as you know, grids are provided for this purpose. We will work on this and make a proposal in the context of the bill on older age and autonomy. Finally, the issue of differentiated tariffs is quite relevant. Families are rightly asking for their implementation, and this is part of our thinking about funding residents in EHPAD.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u18	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u19	The French are increasingly dreading their old days and those of their loved ones, and because: the care of the residents is expensive, the reception conditions of the EHPADs are deteriorating and the staff are understaffed constantly, despite an extraordinary dedication that should be emphasized and praised. In the face of this situation, encouraging reports follow, but the situation of distress in the EHPADs remains. First question, minister: why is the law announced on this subject being rejected? Can you tell us the timetable? All staff and trade union organisations call for the immediate creation of two additional posts in each establishment and service, which corresponds to the creation of 40,000 posts to relieve teams from breath. What do you intend to do in this regard? As for the issue of funding for EHPADs, it must be dealt with in arm-to-body terms. What do you think of the introduction of an autonomy provision through solidarity funding, accepted by the majority of the French? The latter expect more tax transparency. It would therefore be wise to shift the funds raised by the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government – CNSA – towards the sector of support for the elderly. Indeed, since the creation of the CNSA, more than 1.5 billion euros have been dedicated to other objectives. I would also like to ask you about a second point, the lack of attractiveness of the professions in EHPAD, even if you have started to answer us on this point. In addition to low pay, the older age sector suffers from a high degree of penitibility, which in particular results in a number of accidents at work and occupational diseases three times higher than the national average. Faced with difficulties in recruiting qualified staff to EHPAD, the directors of these institutions are calling for an increase in the number of training sessions at nursing training institutes. Let us not lose sight of the fact that these expenditures are a real investment for all of our territories, as they create non-relocable neighbourhood jobs, especially for the younger ones. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] Minister, how do you intend to meet these strong expectations of our fellow citizens in the context of the future bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u20	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u21	As I said earlier to MP Benoît, there are many players involved in the financing of EHPADs. The dialogue thus highlighted problems related to financing, governance and transparency. These topics have been assessed and will, of course, be included in the bill. I do not want to say any more until the text is fully drafted. Let me turn to your question about the attractiveness of the trades. First of all, I would like to join you in stressing the extreme dedication of these staff who often work in degraded conditions, sometimes because they do not find candidates for positions that remain vacant. The current context of strikes, particularly in Île-de-France, also makes their work even more difficult, and I would like to pay tribute to their presence alongside the elderly, because they are not lacking: this is a subject that I am very close to. The El Khomri report also identified levers to attract young people as well as people away from employment, who could be attracted by these occupations. A fundamental work must be done on the versatility of training and skills: it is a question of strengthening the content of these trades and allowing more bridges from one trade to another but also between work in EHPAD and at home, in order to offer more diversity. In this way, we strive to break down these occupations and to integrate the issue of preventing the loss of autonomy into training, as this is a fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u22	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u23	It's no longer a secret; Although they support and value the professionals who work there, the French have a bad image of EHPAD. Only 13% of them would be willing to enter such an institution in the event of a loss of autonomy. However, the Act of 2 January 2002 renovating social and medico-social activities and the subsequent implementing decrees, by promoting the full citizenship of the elderly, make it possible to improve procedures for the reception of residents. In theory, a person taken care of by a social or medico-social institution must benefit from an individualised support of a quality which promotes his development, autonomy and integration. Thus, at the entrance of each resident, the EHPAD professionals establish with him and his family an individualized life project that must then be updated according to the evolution of his or her state of health and needs. But this is a theoretical scheme because, in practice, the lack of staff limits the scope of this measure. Due to a lack of staff and time, individualized life projects are not developed and monitored. Yet, beyond the well-being of residents, this approach gives meaning to the work of caregivers and contributes to the improvement of working conditions. In 2017, the median management rate was 0.63 full-time equivalent – FTEs – per resident. To accommodate and support our seniors in the best possible conditions, this ratio should be reduced to 0.80 FTEs per resident. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] After a bill to finance social security far below expectations, and while we are still waiting for the bill on old age and autonomy, are you finally considering, Madam Minister, giving EHPAD the human and financial means to receive the residents with dignity, by significantly increasing the funds dedicated to care?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u24	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u25	I believe that we are all pursuing the same goal of increasing the ratio between the number of caregivers and the number of current and future residents. This represents very important training and post requirements. However, I recall that since I joined the department in 2017, more than 7,000 additional nursing positions have been funded in the EHPADs. The law on the adaptation of society to ageing had introduced a new method of pricing which you know has had perverse effects. I first wanted to neutralise the adverse effects of this tariff convergence, before speeding up its implementation from seven to five years. I was thus able to add additional resources; a combined effort of 284 million euros has made it possible to recruit about 7100 additional FTEs dedicated to care. We have also, as you know, created night nurse positions for all EHPADs, in order to reduce the risk of night hospitalisation unexpectedly by emergencies, for lack of nursing or medical advice. We also equip all EHPADs with telemedicine and teleconsultation equipment to accompany and reassure caregivers who are often very alone at night. Nevertheless, we need to go further. Our goal is to move closer to the target recommended in Dominique Libault's report, that is to say, a 25% increase in the rate of supervision by 2024 compared to 2015, targeted at local staff directly contributing to the quality of life not only of caregivers but also of those who are hosted. It is on the basis of this objective that the bill will be drafted and submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u26	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u27	Minister, in July 2017, I gave you an assessment of our working conditions in health facilities, taking up Virginia Henderson's fourteen basic needs. Following this inquiry, a flash mission and then a fact-finding mission on the situation of EHPADs were conducted. It has been almost two years since Monique Iborra and I made our report on the situation of EHPADs overwhelming. Since then, so little has been done! Finally, if: two new reports were commissioned, perhaps to make forget our parliamentary report, which, however, was unanimous among all observers. In July 2017, I was talking about "institutional abuse", but this expression is no longer relevant because it does not clearly refer to those responsible. And since those responsible are now known, it is necessary to speak of government abuse. Let us shed light on what is hidden behind the word "mistreatment": residents bathing for hours in their excrement for lack of time or means; toilets made in less than six minutes on bruised bodies; meals with a stone thrower – our residents suffer from malnutrition, in France; non-existent dental care; persons bedridden 24 hours a day, without even being able to change their position; escarres; tears, weeping; families that waver between anguish and guilt; caregivers who change their profession or are broken by musculoskeletal disorders and repeated work accidents, when they are not in burn out or, worse, when they have not ended their days. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] Government abuse in our EHPADs is a nightmare but, alas, we do not dream: we are well awake! When, Madam Minister, are you going to implement the thirty-one proposals in our parliamentary report? When are you going to stop this ignominy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u28	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u29	Mrs Fiat, I had read carefully the report you had produced with Mrs Iborra. Over the past year, I have requested two reports, not additional on the same subject, but complementary to yours, which of course pointed to the difficulties you mention. I recalled earlier that Mr. Dominique Libault's report was the result of a very broad citizen consultation, in which more than 415 000 people participated. This important consultation has shown that older people want to stay at home; She pointed out the question of caregivers, the question of the rest of the burden borne by the families of residents in EHPAD and, more generally, that of funding. I have also ordered Mrs Myriam El Khomri a much more specific report on the necessary development of the professions of old age and autonomy. It is a question of looking at how we can make these professions attractive, what training we need to offer and what divisions we need to expect between the different sectors, especially between care and support. These two reports are complementary: they allow us to have a very comprehensive view of the issue of population ageing. Dominique Libault's report has also made it possible to identify requests around diversified intermediate accommodation – I think, for example, of accommodation with approved foster families or accommodation with intergenerational co-locations. This was not all in your report, Mrs Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u30	But we are talking about Mrs Fiat's report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u31	Dominique Libault's report highlighted the issue of caregivers. Thus, together with the Prime Minister, we have drawn up a special plan for carers that has led to the creation, for the first time, of an indemnified close care leave – a measure you have voted for, I hope, in the framework of the PLFSS for 2020. Finally, Dominique Libault's report highlighted the need for funding, which will obviously be introduced in the upcoming bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u32	In two minutes, you didn't say a single word about Mrs Fiat's report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u33	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u34	Minister, you replied to Ms. Dubie that you had created 7,000 positions in two years. One of the first of the thirty proposals in the Fiat-Iborra report was the creation of 210,000 posts. The creation of 7,000 posts, compared to the 210,000 that would be needed, is therefore far from meeting the needs. To those who tell me that money does not appear as if by magic, I reply that the recommended measure would have cost 6 billion euros in the first year, in 2018-2019, twice the cost of abolishing the ISF. These creations could therefore have been financed easily – and this would have resulted in 210,000 fewer unemployed... You say that older people prefer to stay at home, but the situation is distorted: in view of the current situation in EHPAD, no one wants to go! People must respond that they want to stay at home, but if the situation in EHPAD was better, they would like to go. We have indeed voted for the creation of close care leave, but we have also pointed out that this scheme does not apply to retired persons assisting their spouses. As for the famous Libault report and the caregiver-care ratio, be careful not to confuse everything! We ask 0.60 caregivers per resident, which has nothing to do with the ratio of 0.65 employees per resident: there is a big difference between caregiver and employee. Mr Libault speaks of an employee when we speak of a caregiver; That is why we do not agree with the figures he has presented in his report. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] Minister, I did not ask you when you would introduce your bill on age and autonomy, announced for 2020. Indeed, during the review of the PLFSS for 2020, I pointed out to you that the funding for this bill was €0 – in other words, it is not funded. So my question is simple: when are you going to finance the end of abuse in our EHPADs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u35	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u36	In the PLFSS for 2020, we have abounded the EHPAD budget of EUR 500 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u37	No, this money is dedicated to home help!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u38	I don't think we can tell the French that another 500 million euros in a year is nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u39	Of the 6 billion euros needed, that's not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u40	A special effort has been made to recruit additional people in 2020. As far as recruitment is concerned, resources have been implemented since 2015 – so before my arrival – and are scheduled until 2021. This will represent an additional four FTEs for a 100-seat EHPAD, or 21,000 positions created between 2015 and 2021. The Libault report stresses the need for a 25% increase in recruitment by 2025. That is exactly what the law will allow and foresee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u41	The Libault report speaks of employees but we ask for caregivers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u42	This is reflected in the Libault report and that is the commitment we are making. This 25% increase is equivalent to an additional 13 FTEs in a 100-seat EHPAD.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u43	You're talking about employees, not caregivers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, only the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u45	But she doesn't answer the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u46	Finally, the acceleration of tariff convergence on care is a response to the current problems: in this context, more than 900 million euros have been injected into EHPAD budgets. Today, recruitment is therefore funded. Of course, more needs to be done, and we will do more – it is the purpose of the bill that will be introduced –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u47	You do more for taxpayers subject to the ISF, but not for EHPAD residents!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u48	...but already, we have greatly accelerated tariff convergence compared to what the 2015 law passed by Parliament before I came to the responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u49	You have not given any reply to the thirty-one proposals in Mrs Fiat's report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u50	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u51	As the world population grows and life expectancy increases, the ageing of the population increases. At the global level, the population over the age of 65 is expected to increase from 9.3 per cent to 15.9 per cent of the total population by 2050, with, of course, much higher figures in Europe. There is a legitimate question of the dependence and place of EHPADs in the accompaniment of the elderly. We all know that the situation is critical in these institutions. In my riding, several EHPADs, but also families of residents, have asked me about this. Financial and human resources are lacking. The remaining burden on families is increasing in a country where many pensioners receive small pensions. Effectiveness and performance take precedence over respect for each other. As a result, enormous suffering is generated, both for many residents of these institutions and for health-care teams. We have recently tabled, on the initiative of our colleague Alain Bruneel, a bill on emergency measures for health and hospitals. In this text, we address the issue of EHPAD in particular. A whole series of measures are proposed – I am thinking in particular of integrating the risk of dependency into the sickness branch of social security, of a plan to recruit 100,000 statutory jobs per year over three years in the geriatric sector, of supporting investment, of setting up regulated public tariffs or of a better ratio of supervision. The context is more than worrying: it is critical and alarming. We are witnessing a real social crisis. To combat this institutionalized abuse, what real financial measures are you proposing? What are you proposing to restore the dignity of the elderly and the respect of caregivers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u53	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u54	I have already responded to Mrs Fiat by recalling the funding allocated to this sector since I came to the responsibilities and the Government's willingness to go further, because there is a need for the present and the future. We need to take steps to be ready to cope with the massive ageing of the population around 2030: we will then have to train enough professionals in this sector and have invented new forms of care, since EHPAD is probably the ultimate choice because we know that the French want to age at home, which requires us to organize an outpatient residential turn. All of this will be the subject of the bill that will be introduced in 2020. However, I was not inactive – far from it. I increased the budgets provided for in the Act on the adaptation of society to ageing and accelerated tariff convergence, which was too long and insufficient. As a result, EHPADs have seen their budgets increase, allowing them to recruit. As I have already said, in two years we have created an additional 7,000 posts, and we will continue to do so. For example, the PLFSS for 2020 has provided an additional EUR 500 million for this sector. In addition, I have strengthened night nurse positions and encouraged the use of telemedicine to reassure caregivers, who are often very alone at night in EHPADs – this anxiety of being alone in the face of an elderly, sick and sick person, contributes to the lack of attractiveness of the profession. As part of the emergency plan, we have also worked on emergency admissions, so that older people are no longer obliged to go through emergencies and can be admitted directly to geriatrics: we want to avoid seeing older people on stretchers, and resources have been allocated to emergency services and hospitals for this. Finally, the law that I intend to implement will include a range of measures to make these professions more attractive, to improve the value of these professions and to recruit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u55	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u56	I'm replacing Pierre Dharréville tonight, who had a hindrance. Last November, the Caisse nationale pour la solidarité et l'autonomy updated its statistics on EHPAD rates. The median price of a room in a nursing home is close to 2000 euros. In comparison, the median income of a pensioner in 2017 was €1827. While rates have increased from 1.92% to 2.62% in three years, pensioners' incomes are far from following the same trend. The leftovers are astronomical for those who are staying. I am thinking in particular of farmers and their poverty pensions – 750 euros for a full career, little more than 500 euros for the spouse, sometimes even less. Families are often involved while the loss of autonomy of our seniors should be a matter of national solidarity. It is a double penalty for the most modest families, and people who age even feel a form of guilt because they know it will cost their children a lot. We have been alerting you, minister, for years about the situation of EHPADs and the public hospital. It's time to act. However, you are merely delaying the introduction of your bill on old age and autonomy. As for us Communist parliamentarians, we have proposals to meet what you call the challenge of losing autonomy. One of the emergency measures for health and hospitals must be the introduction of regulated public tariffs in EHPADs so that the rest of the dependants of the persons placed and their families are limited. [[Jean-Paul Dufrègne and Caroline Fiat applaud]] Minister, what are your measures for EHPADs? Do you intend to introduce such a regulated fee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u57	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u58	Thank you, Mr Chassaigne, for this question, which is indeed important for the French. It will be at the heart of the future bill. I agree with you on this point: in France, as the Libault report points out, the rest of the burden remains very high – far too high – in institutions. While health care benefits are 100% covered by health insurance and two-thirds dependency benefits through the Personalized Self-Government Allowance – APA –, the accommodation rate is now at household expense. The housing allowance and the tax reduction, however, make up part of this expenditure, but in a very different way depending on income. According to the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics, the DREES, the rest after the various aids remain around € 1850 per month – the median level before the payment of social assistance for housing, which therefore exceeds the current expenditure of the elderly in 75% of cases. After the consultation on age and autonomy, a consensus was reached on this issue of the rest at the expense of EHPAD. The measures that we could take in the coming months must ensure, on the one hand, that we respect a principle of intergenerational equity and that we do not organise a transfer of assets to generations born immediately after the war, and, on the other hand, that we respect a principle of intra-generational equity by improving the situation and the care of the elderly who are the least well-off in terms of income or wealth. These principles of intergenerational and intragenerational equity clearly echo the concerns of the French: they will therefore be at the heart of the measures contained in the future bill, which I think will address your concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u59	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u60	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about three issues that you have already addressed. The first concerns under-staffed caregivers, who are now universally recognized. If this was contested by some in the context of the fact-finding mission I conducted with Caroline Fiat, it is no longer the case today – this is a first positive effect of our report. While the National Conference of Directors of Facilities for Older Persons and Persons with Disabilities calls for the creation of 36,000 nursing positions, can you tell us, minister, whether the future bill will provide for a minimum effective ratio of health care personnel? The second question concerns the rest of the burden in the EHPADs, a concern that worries our fellow citizens while, as you know, social assistance for housing financed by the departmental councils seems to be in decline and that the CNSA's annual study on EHPAD rates shows a strong upward trend in prices over the past three years, with tariff disparities between departments still remaining very marked. Can you tell me how it would possibly be possible to control these tariff increases and territorial inequalities? Finally, can you tell me what provisions could be included in the future age law to promote new models of EHPAD and the use of new technologies, known to be under-used in France today?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u61	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u62	I will, of course, go back to the framework ratio. We are all in favour of its increase and all aware of the need to recruit. But the problem with the DREES survey is that in 63% of establishments, positions have not been filled for six months, all occupations combined – with variations depending on the status and location of the establishment. Private EHPADs are the most affected: one in two faces recruitment difficulties, compared to only 35% of public hospital EHPADs. I would add that 10% of EHPADs have a position of co-ordinator that remains unfilled – we know the difficulty of recruiting physicians today – and 9% of unfilled nursing positions. Increasing the ratio also means increasing the attractiveness – by rethinking training – because one will not go without the other: one can create jobs, but if they are not filled, we will not have solved the problem. On the other hand, we know that in terms of accommodation, EHPAD will be the ultimate recourse, and that is how it is perceived by our fellow citizens. We must therefore rethink home support, simplifying it and introducing the single window so that families have greater access to this support and to integrated care, and reflect on intermediate accommodation through small units of life with a quality of services, because that is also what the French demand. All intermediate hosting solutions will be included in the bill. Finally, as far as tariffs are concerned, I will have the opportunity to return to them. But the aim is obviously multiple: on the one hand, it is to reduce the remaining burden by adapting it to the incomes of the most modest families in order to reach them as a matter of priority, as Mr Chassaigne asked, and, on the other hand, to harmonize the system, while knowing that, since the departments are now in charge in this sector, it is difficult for the State to go further. The law of age and autonomy should in any case provide answers to the questions that you are asking yourself, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u63	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u64	First of all, I want to welcome your successive statements, Minister, which assure us of the future introduction of a bill on age and autonomy. Some of us were asking ourselves the question, but I am thus measuring your determination to defend this text which you speak of very often. It obviously responds to an important need of our society, knowing that entering an EHPAD is often a doubly painful moment for families and seniors because it frequently corresponds to an accident of life – a mourning, a loss of autonomy, a disease that worsens brutally – and that it has a financial aspect. In this respect, the decrease in the remainder by around 300 euros – against an average of 1850 euros per month – as advocated by Dominique Libault's report, would be of a kind to reassure families. We also know, of course, that the public policies concerned will require investments, perhaps in the order of several billion euros, as has been mentioned. My question will be, Madam Minister, about the EHPADs of a new type. I would like to point out that in my riding of Côte-d'Or, in Talant, between the crèche, the nursery and the EHPAD Robert Grandjean, there have been intergenerational exchanges since 2013. And such exchanges must be encouraged. I want to draw your attention to these alternative solutions and invite you to develop your ideas on the subject tonight, whether they are "out-of-wall" EHPADs or integration between home and establishment, in short, on the new type of establishment that you want to set up so that aging is no longer an anguish and a problem, in other words, that the image of the old age, with the good aging, is no longer feared by the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u65	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u66	At the outset, I would like to point out, Mr.Member, that the Government will do its utmost to ensure that the French can age as long as possible, either in their own homes thanks to the support of strengthened home services or in intermediate habitats as they demand – I am thinking of inclusive housing, co-location or independent residence. However, it is clear that the prolongation of life expectancy and the consequent prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases will always require a collective habitat of the EHPAD type. The challenge in the coming years is that a structure of this kind corresponds to the wishes of the residents for life and that it is as close as possible to a real home, to a real place of life, even if the logic of care must be present. Some prerequisites are obvious, such as ensuring the full citizenship of the elderly in future EHPADs. It is also necessary to open the establishments on the outside so that they really become places of life and intergenerational meeting places for all the inhabitants of the neighborhood. In this regard, there are many examples of EHPAD open to the city, sometimes connected, as you said, with nurseries or collective restaurants, and these initiatives should become more widespread. Many establishments, moreover, are embarking on this logic of openness. [[Mrs Maud Petit applauds]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, there is the architecture, which I believe should serve a renewed form of habitat, less anxiety and perhaps less sanitary, and more individualizable for residents. I have already announced this evening that I would like to explore this issue with an interdisciplinary group of experts, accompanied by older people, as well as architects, sociologists and staff working in EHPADs, in order to define the broad guidelines of an institution responding to the emerging issues of the EHPAD of the future. I think I need this multidisciplinary idea lab, and I'm going to work on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u67	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u68	Since 2017, many measures have been put in place for EHPADs; 2019 has been rich in reflections and proposals, especially for the professions of the older age. However, in recent years, there has been at least one unfilled caregiving position in each EHPAD, a sign of a glaring lack of attractiveness of low-paid and low-value occupations, with a well-known level of hardship. Identified as a priority topic in Dominique Libault's report, confirmed in Myriam El Khomri's report last October, the attractiveness of older trades is today the cornerstone for a successful demographic transition already under way. The needs have been estimated at 93,000 jobs to be created in the next five years and, during your hearing in the Committee on Social Affairs, you announced the creation in 2020 of 5000 jobs, all trades. Still do we have to find the expected profiles... In view of the positions currently not filled, a total of 260,000 professionals will be trained. There is therefore an urgent need to take action, in particular to ensure that the measures for the upgrading of the caregiving profession proposed in the "Invest for the hospital" plan can also be applied to the care workers of EHPAD and the home. Madam Minister, while the great age and autonomy law, long awaited by the professionals of the sector, is not on the legislative agenda of the first half of 2020, while the professionals are breathless and our seniors and their caregivers rely on you, are counting on us, can you specify the government's plans for today, for tomorrow and for the day after, so that the great age is set in a renewed time of life, that of the longevity that is dear to us?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u69	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u70	You are, of course, right, Madam Commissioner, to stress the need to rethink the professions of old age, and I have already mentioned this with other Members this evening. I want to go back to the mission I entrusted to Myriam El Khomri and his report, which was unanimously hailed as being of very high quality. Mrs El Khomri proposes a national mobilization plan to promote the attractiveness of these professions and to mobilise several levers to this end in order to avoid the disintegration of this sector and the ensuing difficulties of loyalty, and to allow for more recruitment because, as you said, the needs will be immense in the coming years. Among the axes it proposes is that of the conditions of employment and remuneration for employees in the sector. As you pointed out, first steps were taken in favour of health-care workers, including a premium of EUR 100 net per month for all those who have received training as health-care assistants in gerontology. But my ministry still needs to deepen the topic of remuneration for the private sector, since, today, only public-sector caregivers have access to this premium. Secondly, in order to reduce disintegration and improve the quality of life at work, we need to renew the allocation of time devoted to collective time and training time. The collective time between professionals helps to reduce the sinistrality. As for training, it should make it possible to increase, in particular, the share of qualified professionals through the valuing of the experience gained. It's a trail that's been insufficiently dug. Learning is also a good way to enter the profession. Work is under way to modernize health-care training; They are expected to reach the first quarter of 2020. This will also involve the mobilisation of specific appropriations, which are currently being carried out under the competence investment programme. Finally, we need to innovate in terms of work organisations while changing the image of these professions through, among other things, a communication campaign about to begin. All these avenues are relevant and require the mobilization of all partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u71	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u72	The management of old age and autonomy is one of the major projects of the quinquennium. We will have the opportunity to reform this vital branch of service to the person very quickly, and I know your commitment on this point, minister: you have confirmed this again on several occasions this evening. We must be on the rendezvous because it is a very difficult sector. The difficulties are accumulating, especially in our rural areas, where, in addition to geographical isolation, there is a staggering shortage of treating doctors, yet the only ones able to finalize admissions to EHPAD. In my native Sarthe, this is the case of Rémy, who, disabled GIR 2 – iso-resource group 2 – cannot be admitted to EHPAD due to the lack of a doctor and coordinator. You will notice the administrative absurdity of the situation, since he cannot stay at home and his only caregiver is to this day his daughter, very brave, who alerted me. The bill on old age and autonomy must be an opportunity; It must make it possible to erase these administrative nonsenses while at the same time being part of an ever greater logic of combating medical desertification. What answer can we give to this family and to all the others who live in such situations on a daily basis? In five to seven years, one in two Sarthois doctors will be looking for a replacement... This crisis is major, profound, totally alarming. We live at home as a result of years of wandering local health policy. This same reality of medical desertification has led to the closure of the paediatric resuscitation service at Le Mans Hospital. We have to act. How to change the admission procedures to EHPAD to compensate for the recurring shortage of doctors? Perhaps by innovating through advanced practices so as not to leave our fellow citizens unanswered? What real resources will be allocated, especially in Sarthe, for the hospital and for dependency in the coming months?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u73	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u74	Madam Member, you are warning me of the need for a doctor to enter EHPAD. But I would like to point out that there is no legal justification for this, and that there is no obligation to have a treating physician to enter EHPAD. However, there are currently difficulties in accessing this doctor, particularly in rural areas, because of the medical desertification you are referring to. You know that I've taken this subject in arm-to-body since I came to the responsibilities. The current situation is linked to the evolution of the medical demographics, which is quite catastrophic in our country: we did not train enough doctors in the 1990-2000s, and we pay the price today with the mass retirement of doctors trained in the 1970s and 1980s. We are therefore experiencing a difficult period since there will be no increase in the number of new French doctors until 2027. So we need to rethink our organizations. That is why, in the law on the organisation and transformation of the health system voted in July, I proposed the creation of territorial occupational health communities – CPTS – covering the entire territory. Of the 1000 CPTS we plan to create in France, 200 have already been created in 2019. Among their missions – they are financed for this – is the obligation to find a doctor treating all patients in their territory: they have a population responsibility. Patients, especially the elderly, will therefore not have to look for a treating physician themselves: if a CPTS exists – and they will be in charge within the next two years – they will be able to contact the CPAM in their neighbourhood to obtain a treating doctor. The delegation of tasks is also being deployed. It allows other health professionals, such as nurses and pharmacists, to take care of tasks that have so far been performed by the doctor, such as chronic pathologies. All of this will allow for the discharge of medical time and make access to a treating physician easier for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u75	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u76	The subject we are dealing with tonight is worrying: the increase in life expectancy, coupled with an increase in age-related diseases, inexorably leads to a very large increase in the number of dependent elderly people. There is now an urgent need to reform the system of care for such persons. So we can only welcome the plan for the EHPADs that you presented in 2018, because it goes in this direction and you have provided it with exceptional means. It is in this context that you chose to continue the approach begun in 2015: the reform of pricing in EHPADs. You have even accelerated the process, since you have devoted resources to it, e.g. by releasing €70 million from 2018 for the recruitment of healthcare staff. This price convergence seems indispensable to me. This being the case – and although everyone agrees on the principle of price convergence and a change in the system – it is also apparent that, in EHPADs, healthcare workers are now suffering from a cruel lack of material and human resources. I will not go back to everything that has been said about the problem of recruitment or the need to increase the attractiveness of older trades. On the other hand, I would like to ask you more specifically about the effectiveness of the tariff reform: can you tell us how its introduction has been beneficial? Do you have any concrete examples of the positive effects of tariff convergence?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u77	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u78	Tariff convergence allowed for a healthier philosophy – everyone knew exactly what to pay, in liability – and led to a form of harmonization of practices across the country. The reform allowed – as has been understood – to better explain the coexistence of the three items of expenditure: care, supported by health insurance, dependency, care by the departments, and accommodation, cared for by the residents or their families. Today it appears that this tariff convergence has not produced all the improvements expected, and the Libault report points to the need to change it. I am therefore not sure that we will continue to fund EHPADs indefinitely as we are currently doing. The Libault report advocates a merger of the "care" and "dependencies" sections – which are currently abounded by separate funders – into a "care and maintenance of autonomy" section. You also believe that there will be more and more dependent people in the future. I think this is not a fatality: addiction – as I said earlier, and the geriatricians say – is intimately linked to the existence of an underlying disease. If we are able to improve the prevention of chronic diseases – whether cardiovascular or neurodegenerative – from an early age through better nutrition or physical activity, the increase in the number of dependent people is not written. There is a major challenge not to undergo such a development because of the too late management of the loss of autonomy, which no longer makes it possible to improve the situation of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u79	Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u80	In 2070, France will have 14 million people over the age of 75, 2.5 million of whom are highly dependent. EHPADs crystallize the urgency of the situation and require that work be undertaken to accurately assess the needs of the elderly. I identify three priority areas for action. The first is quantitative: it concerns the supervision rate of caregivers in EHPADs. It must be established in relation to the number of residents, not according to the nature of the institutions, as is the case today. The second priority is to respond to the old-fashioned state of many public EHPADs, which all too often leads to an accumulation of technical failures harmful to residents, families and caregivers. I know, for having recently met in my constituency the families of the residents of the public EHPAD Thiers in Antibes Juan-les-Pins, that this local emergency illustrates a worrying national situation. The third project is to make the professions of older age attractive by improving the remuneration and training of professionals and caregivers in EHPADs. I know how demanding service to the person is for professionals involved in this noble task, and here I want to salute them and pay tribute to their professionalism. Institutional care requires, however, a minimum of more than 2.5 billion euros: we are now far from the point of view! A report on the attractiveness of the professions of old age and autonomy was given to you at the end of October 2019 by Mrs El Khomri, but at the same time, the great law on dependency intended by the President of the Republic, which was due to be presented in 2019, is postponed by several months, without a timetable, while this topic should be a priority of the Government. The urgency is both social, financial and human: as President Chirac often pointed out, a society must be judged on its way of treating the weakest. So is my question simple: Madam Minister, when will you take the full measure of the situation of the EHPADs – with, as you will have understood, a special look at that of my municipality of Antibes Juan-les-Pins – and when will you finally deploy a policy that truly meets the expectations of families, caregivers and older trades?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u81	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u82	As I recalled in response to the previous questions, the Government is very proactive in supporting this sector and responding to the concern of the French, which affects all families: no one is spared – we are all going to age. Thus, in a certain way, there is no bill that is more universal than that of the reform of the care of old age and autonomy. The President of the Republic has made this commitment. He renewed it a week ago at his vows to the French, ensuring that this bill would be presented in 2020. We're working on it. The reports allowed us to clarify the expectations of the French, but we did not wait to act. Thus, since the crisis in EHPAD in 2017, I have accelerated tariff convergence in order to identify additional resources. The first objective of this convergence was to increase the ratio of caregivers to those housed in EHPADs. That's what we did. For 2020, we did not want to wait for the law on old age and autonomy to increase budgets in the medical social sector: 500 million euros were spent on EHPAD in the law on the financing of social security for 2020. While the introduction of the bill had been postponed by a few, budgets had already been allocated for the recruitment of staff. What matters is to anticipate the real demographic shift that will take place in 2030 so that we are ready, in ten years' time, to welcome all the elderly. Thanks to reinforced preventive measures, I hope they will not be as dependent as they can be today. This will be another aspect of the future bill: beyond the ratio of caregivers and pricing, we will have to deal with caregivers and the prevention of loss of autonomy. All these elements will be included in the text to be presented to Parliament in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u83	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u84	In Orne, as in many departments, our retirement homes have undergone considerable changes in recent years, modernising and expanding to cope with an increasing need for places in EHPAD, linked to a very marked ageing of the Ornese population. In view of this fact, if the premises are often adapted and functional in these establishments – which are running at 100% of their capacity at home – what is cruelly lacking is the human means of caring for our elders. The reinforcement of teams is essential, because staff are often at a standstill: the rhythms of work and physical and moral fatigue make the system, as well as men and women, crack. There is an urgent need to restore oxygen to these personnel, who do their work with great professionalism, attention and affection. The measure to promote care assistants in gerontology – the ASG – in EHPAD, which you announced a few months ago, is a good lead, because it values these professions and encourages specific training in the management of older age. However, it remains virtual, as it is not publicly funded. In our EHPAD, in January, we know what the "dependency" budget granted by the departmental council in 2020 will be. We know the price of a day, and therefore the amount of the "accommodation" budget. However, we do not know what "care" funding will be provided by the regional health agency, the RSA, or what amounts we will be able to count on to pay for our current GSOs, hire additional GSOs, or train our staff in GSOs. If, like last year, the "care" budget is known only in the middle of the current year, you will understand that the evolution – if there is any positive change – will not be felt soon on the ground. On what criteria will EHPAD allocate the additional resources necessary for ASGs? Will the increase be proportional to the "care" budget, or calculated on the basis of the number of beds? Finally, at what date will EHPAD's 2020 endowment be known – can we hope not to wait six months?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u85	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u86	You are asking, honourable Member, a very specific question, to which I will answer precisely. First of all, I believe that the measure to which you refer is good, because it seems to me useful that EHPAD care workers benefit from this ASG training. On the other hand, it makes it possible to revalue the profession: I recall having announced, as part of the plan "Invest for the hospital", a bonus of 100 euros net per month for anyone who has completed this training. The latter will a priori concern all public EHPADs and all geriatric services: in the long term, 60000 people should be able to benefit from this premium in the public hospital sector. As for the financing of this reform, the plan "My health 2022 – Investing for the hospital" led, on the occasion of the reading of the draft law on the financing of social security, to re-evaluate the ONDAM medicosocial to the tune of 53 million euros, in order to allow the financing of categorical measures from 2020. The department's departments are currently determining the best channel to transfer these credits to SROs and institutions. The appropriations were integrated into the ONDAM medicosocial on the occasion of the vote of the LFSS for 2020 and will reach the institutions very quickly, in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u87	June?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u88	Before June, Member of Parliament: I understand your request. We are working hard to ensure that all this funding reaches the staff concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u89	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u90	In 2019, a financial envelope of €15 million was released for the recruitment or development of night nurses in EHPAD. It is expected to be renewed in 2020. However, based on the evidence from the field and as I have seen in my electoral district, few institutions have been able to file a file in time in 2019 and those that have not received funding have not. I would therefore like to know what happened to this overall budget in 2019. More specifically, has it been well used to compensate for replacement allowances in these very difficult areas? Can you specify how these means will be used as effectively as possible in 2020?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u91	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u92	This was indeed a landmark measure, important to me, which had been the subject of a very positive experiment. Like you, honourable Member, I am receiving a return from the ground indicating that it did not deploy at the speed I wanted. Such a measure reassures professionals working in this sector, as it avoids many unnecessary hospitalizations and emergencies. In this way, as part of the "Invest for Hospital" plan, we reaffirmed the need for a pooling of nursing positions for EHPADs to ensure that all these institutions are covered. I gave the SROs the means to organize this coverage by generalizing it in 2020, to ensure the presence of a nurse in EHPAD at night, in a form most often mutualized, depending on the size of the institutions in the territory. A €36 million envelope, divided into three tranches for a gradual increase, has already been allocated to the ARS, with €10 million in 2018 and 2019, and then €16 million in 2020. Thanks to these means, 20% to 25% of EHPADs are already covered by a night nurse. My goal is for the generalisation to be complete by 2020, as this coverage has a very wide territorial diversity. This measure is not the only way to improve the path of care in EHPAD: other experiments exist, such as the project ASSUR – Improving emergency care in EHPAD – deployed in the Hauts-de-France. Telesurveillance and teleconsultation, with the link between EHPAD and UAS, are also a way to reassure caregivers who are with the elderly at night and avoid many unnecessary hospitalizations. We are therefore continuing the experiments and, in any case, the resources are already allocated for generalisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u93	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u94	Aging and loss of autonomy are subjects of serious concern to our compatriots, 85% of whom indicate that they want to age at home. The question is all the more so since the current 7,000 or so EHPADs will not be enough to accommodate the baby boom generations. Moreover, many will find it difficult to afford a place in EHPAD, the cost of which is on average € 1850 per month after aid and tax reductions, while the average direct right pension is € 1389 gross per month. The management of old age and dependency is therefore a major issue of our time. According to INSEE, the number of seniors losing autonomy, which was 2.5 million in 2015, could reach 4 million by 2050. The recognition of a fifth risk and its translation through the creation of an additional branch of social security – a measure that I believe was included in candidate Macron's campaign programme – is therefore urgently needed. The answer you have started to provide, in particular with the Social Security Financing Law for 2020 and the release of a €500 million envelope for EHPAD, is, as you agreed in answering recent topical questions raised by some of my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party, only a partial response, which does not cover the financing needs so much as is necessary. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Libault report, published in March 2019, sets the overall need for funding to meet the challenge of ageing by 2050 at some EUR 10 billion, which represents an increase of more than 35% in public expenditure on dependency. Among the possible avenues for sustainable financing, the Libault report's proposal 160 calls for the creation, from 2024 onwards, of a new dedicated social levy, using the CRDS base – a contribution to the repayment of social debt – which would theoretically be extinguished in 2024, after the social debt had been resorption. The Libault report also calls for the mobilization of the Pension Reserve Fund to fund the EHPAD renovation plan. Does the Government intend to retain either or both of these avenues, and according to what timetable? Will this be included in the bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u95	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u96	Madam Member, I understand your desire to know how the bill is funded, but I would first like to communicate a great deal about its objectives and this strategy for older age. Indeed, if I indicate the slightest number, it will be the only data retained and commented on, when we really want to take into account the societal change that is expected and the need to better adapt our society, housing, our cities and our methods of financing to the care of the dependent elderly. The thrusts of the Libault report are very interesting for the upcoming bill, whether it concerns intermediate accommodation, the reduction of the rest of the burden in EHPAD, the need to work for caregivers with a "helpful" plan, to improve the residential turn, or to rethink trades and training. These objectives have been designated by the Libault report and I fully agree with them. Today, I do not wish to go any further either on the amount allocated or on the funding arrangements, because the project is not yet finalized. When it is presented to parliamentarians in its entirety, it will include these financial arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u97	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u98	I want to address a technical subject that I have raised several times since November 2018 – in an issue in the Government, in a hearing in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in the preparation of multi-annual energy programming and, more recently, in the consideration of the draft finance law for 2020. This is the difficulty that EHPAD residents encounter in using the energy cheque which the law has granted them, i.e., a loss of enjoyment of an acquired right, attributable to an administrative procedure. This procedure-verru is the agreement of establishments under the individualised aid to housing, which is compulsory for the valorisation of energy cheques. My various requests for simplification have all come up against arguments whose variability seems to me to be more of a lack of ambition to act than a real impossibility to do so. While many of the questions asked this evening have concerned staff and funding, I am therefore addressing the issue of simplification, which refers, more broadly, to the need to reduce the normative burden on institutions where our parents and grandparents are dependent. The simplification of the procedure for valorising energy cheques is, like other simplifications, expected by EHPAD managers. With the help of the National Federation of Associations of Directors of Institutions and Services for the Elderly, I interviewed about this subject last December, 1,400 directors: 256 of them, whose establishments include more than 19,000 residents, were involved in this survey. The results are as follows: firstly, 83% of establishments host beneficiaries of energy cheques; Secondly, energy cheques are valued in only 32% of establishments; Finally, 70 per cent of managers consider the prospect of simplifying the procedure positively. They are even up to 80% of the directors of non-contracted establishments. This is a further demonstration of the need not to penalize certain holders of energy cheques because of a counterproductive administrative procedure. Minister, do you share this vision of the issue? What do you intend to do to help with this simplification, which will allow access to acquired rights, fair treatment between institutions, and a reduction in the remainder for our low-income seniors?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u99	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u100	You are right to recall that the energy check, which replaces social energy tariffs, has been widespread since January 1, 2018. It affects 3.7 million beneficiaries in situations of energy insecurity and is a real aid for low-income people, since it reduces energy costs, which constitute a significant expenditure. Residents of EHPAD, who bear significant accommodation costs, are therefore particularly affected by this energy check. You rightly point out that, in certain specific cases, the beneficiaries of the energy check are not able to use it, as they are not housed in a designated home. Therefore, they cannot use their energy cheque by handing it over to the manager of the retirement home, as the latter cannot cash this special payment title. Today, we are working with the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition to enable these beneficiaries to benefit from the help provided by this energy check, looking very carefully at the conditions of use in these very specific cases. We will therefore propose an evolution of the necessary legislation in the context of the discussion of the future law on old age and autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u101	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u102	For the past few months, I have been visiting the accommodation facilities for elderly people who are dependent on my constituency in Val-de-Marne. Forty-two per cent of the 7,000 EHPADs in our country belong to the public sector. These medical and social institutions are now experiencing dysfunctions, which directly affect our elders. By 2050, statistics expect a 25% increase in the number of people over the age of 75. We must therefore act now. Invariably, over the course of discussions and meetings, I find the same problems. Financially, directors, managers and administrative staff try to ensure the quality of the care of residents, despite chronic budget shortfalls. Humanly, the shortage of staff in EHPAD has a direct impact on the quality of care provided to seniors. As you know, Madam Minister, several whistleblowers have portrayed unacceptable living conditions for residents – we can even, unfortunately, talk about negligence. Professionally, the shortage of staff causes too much work overload for caregivers, which results in fatigue, stress, non-replacement of work stoppers and penitibility – all factors that can explain a large number of sick stoppages in this profession. How can a caregiver take care of another person when he/she is in distress? Despite the dedication and incredible professional awareness of all these teams, it is a powerful alarm cry that they send us today, an alert to help them preserve the quality of reception and the dignity of the residents who stay in these establishments. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] My question, therefore, is simply about the timing of the bill on age and autonomy that you mentioned earlier, Madam Minister, because the situation is urgent and, as such, requires action. It is often said that one can judge the humanity of a society by the way it treats the weakest: I know that our country and our political will strive to do much better than we see today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u103	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u104	We are all convinced that we need this law: the French are waiting for it and, as the questions you are asking today prove, parliamentarians want a strong gesture to reassure French families about the accompaniment of our elders. So we are all aiming for the good of aging that we can offer to the population. As announced by the President of the Republic, this will be a priority project for the year 2020. A funded bill will address the needs and questions of the French, expressed during the national consultation that led to the preparation of the Libault report. In the past, we need a business plan based on broad consultation with employers' federations and local authorities. A national consultation with the social partners on older trades will be launched in the coming weeks with Muriel Pénicaud, and led by a qualified person appointed for this purpose, and we are already working on this law on old age and autonomy. We also need to change the way society looks at our elders. The work of Audrey Dufeu Schubert, devoted in particular to the societal perspective on the old age, as well as to the place and image of our elders in our society, should also challenge us. It is not necessarily a bill that will change that view to respond to the need for a caring society. Finally, I would like to say that the image we have returned of EHPADs in recent months, in recent years, has played a role in the lack of attractiveness of the profession. We must, of course, be careful when it comes to raising deviances, but we must also stress the exceptional commitment of many professionals who do their work with dedication and with the well-contracting that our elderly people deserve. So we must collectively be attentive to the image we send back of EHPADs in order to change society's view of our elders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u105	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u106	The future bill on the old age and the loss of autonomy must propose an ambitious residential shift. In order to better manage dependency, we need to move on to an integrated policy that finally puts an end to the segmentation between home and establishment. This involves rethinking the organization on the ground. In concrete terms, how should this objective, which we all share, be translated? Which operators and front-line actors will be involved in this new organisation? Will EHPAD be part of it? If so, what role will tomorrow's EHPAD play? Should it be the focal point of the new organisation and thus take over the coordination of the actors of the home? Should it be identified by families as the preferred interlocutor, the one-stop shop? Should he be the front-line actor, the gateway to the various services present on a living pool, the cornerstone of this new organization? Should this organisation be complemented by the establishment of an IT platform? Could one imagine that a system similar to the Trajectory software, which organizes the patient's discharge from the hospital, applies to the older age sector and lists online all the services available on the living pool for the elderly person and his family: help, care, home planning, carrying meals, day and night reception and temporary accommodation? What place do we therefore want to give to EHPAD in the new organization of the field for the care of the old age proposed by the future law?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u107	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u108	You ask a very good question: that of the model. It must be noted that the solutions on the territory are varied and are increasingly diversifying: EHPADs outside the walls are interesting experiments, there are also home-help services in all territories. I do not believe that there is a single model or that the law must set a standard for governance. From one territory to another, depending on the availability of care, we can probably promote different models of support, including all the intermediate models I have already mentioned and which the elderly demand strongly, in particular what I call intermediate accommodation: intergenerational co-location or family receptions. We must propose a diversification of models in order to provide an offer adapted to the territories and to the demand made by the elderly person according to his wish and his life path. Today, therefore, we will endeavour to propose a range of solutions that are diverse and adaptable in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u109	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u110	In June 2018, at the Congress of the French Mutuality, the President of the Republic committed himself to the adoption of a law on the financing of dependency before the end of 2019. In March 2019, you were provided with the findings of the Libault report on age and autonomy, which made 175 proposals, many of which were intended to feed into this bill. On June 12, in his second policy statement here, the Prime Minister announced: "The Minister of Health will present at the end of the year a bill that will define a strategy and the programming of the means necessary to take charge of dependency. » It's January 8, 2020 and we still don't see anything coming. Yet the emergency is there. Elderly people, close caregivers, professionals, both at home and in EHPAD, all sound alarms and express a huge expectation in an emergency situation, faced with a lack of staff and very inadequate levels of supervision, inadequate for proper care by healthcare teams, in the face of often unbearable leftovers for residents and their families, and with deep fiscal injustices between home maintenance and accommodation in EHPAD, in the face of sometimes old and inadequate institutions that require heavy renovations and sometimes, as you know, the Minister, total reconstructions. In Riom, for example, we have been waiting for the reconstruction of hospital EHPAD for ten years. The emergency is here. Moreover, the Libault report itself indicated the need "that national representation should be able to deal with this matter quickly in the context of a law. Therefore, my question is simple: can you tell us, quite precisely, when the Government finally intends to submit a bill to meet these expectations and the commitment of the Head of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u111	[[Smile]] Is this planned for the Saint-Glinglin?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u112	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u113	Of course, we want this bill to be introduced as quickly as possible. You know that the parliamentary calendar is very busy, but we are making every effort to propose this text in 2020, in accordance with what the President of the Republic recalled in his wish to the French on 31 December.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u114	[[Smile]] Withdraw the pension bill, it will save time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u115	You have a lot of solutions to offer, Mr. Chassaigne! Indeed, we want to renovate EHPADs, particularly public ones. The Libault report states that 150,000 places have not been renovated for more than 25 years in public EHPADs. The proposed cost of this renovation amounts to EUR 15 billion, mainly for the public sector. This is necessary because the cost of operating is often related to the problem of old age. All of this is obviously provided for in the "age and autonomy" plan. This is the subject of a commitment by the President of the Republic and the Government. Having noted that the bill was lagging behind, I have already hoped that a special financial effort will be made in the 2020 PLFSS for the EHPADs, and 500 million more euros have been allocated to this sector, without waiting for the bill, so as not to lose a year of investment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u116	And that's how the law is not funded!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u117	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u118	For too long months, EHPAD staff have been asking you to hear their exhaustion, their disenchantment at the situation in which they find themselves, faced every day with too often unacceptable working conditions. These 430,000 employees, generously engaged in supporting dependent people, ask you to be able to exercise their profession with dignity and not to be prevented in their mission by a daily life whose physical and mental burden has become too heavy, especially when the specificities related to new residents' audiences are not integrated in the organisation of tasks or in vocational training. Yet this is what residents and families hope to find in our institutions: a staff to whom time is given to put care and link to the core of concerns. However, the conditions for care adapted to the enormous challenge posed by the question of old age and dependency are far from being met. Now that this has already been done, I'll be quick. I deplore the accounting vision of the management of institutions forced to comply with ratios of supervision rates largely inadequate to the reality and needs of people, and subject to increasingly burdensome and specific care, such as that of ageing disabled people, for whom the necessary care time increases while the means do not increase. I remind you of the need for a career improvement: when does an increase in the index point and fair pay occur? Is it a fair salary that the one that amounts to 1255 euros net at the beginning of the career and 1575 at the end of the career? How can VAE – validation of experience – be developed in career development? How can we put an end to the systematic shift in tasks, a practice that disorganizes services and contributes to the devalorization of missions? Finally, I want to mention the place of French Mutuality in the accompaniment of aging people. The mutualist world, which actively participates in the public debate, has made many proposals to you, I believe. One of them, in particular, is aimed at integrating EHPAD into the provision of first-recourse care. What follow-up do you think will be given to their proposals? I stop because the time of a question is obviously not enough to relay all the painful testimonies that caregivers or their families make to us, who must accept that, for lack of time simply, the most basic care, such as the toilet, the meal and the moments of exchange of the daily lives of our elders, are no longer a priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u119	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u120	You mentioned a lot of leads. We share your concerns, in particular the need to work on the validation of the experience gained, but also on the upgrading, including financial, of these trades, since I have already created a premium for all healthcare workers working in public EHPAD and who are trained as a care assistant in gerontology. As part of the pension reform, but in reality in order to improve the working conditions of this staff, I am undertaking a consultation, launched on 14 January, with the staff of the hospital public service, in particular the care workers and nurses, on the issues of penitibility at work but also the second part of career. It seems to me difficult to carry out these tasks for a very long period of time, and it is necessary to consider reconversions and diversification of paths. I made this commitment during the presentation of the EHPAD plan in 2018 and I really hope that the caregivers can diversify their activities in the second part of their career. I have observed it in some EHPADs where they have, for example, coordination or mentoring missions that allow them to lighten their daily tasks. All the avenues that you have outlined are now being considered and will also be examined in the framework of the national consultation on the professions of old age, which will bring together local authorities, employers and trade union organisations, in order to see how we can improve the quality of life at work and, of course, the attractiveness of these professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u121	We have completed the questions on the situation in the EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1118.u122	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Questions on the effectiveness of measures taken to combat medical desertification; Debate on the Hercule project. The meeting is adjourned.
