ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u1	The next item is the debate on mask management between 2017 and 2020. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u2	The Socialist and Related Group has proposed to this House that such a debate be held, because, despite the work of the briefing mission of the Conference of Presidents on the impact, management and consequences, in all its dimensions, of the covid-19 epidemic, many questions remain outstanding. The first concerns the number of masks in 2017. Marisol Touraine, Minister of Health between 2012 and 2017, reported that during this period, the stock of surgical masks had steadily increased, and that the state stock, in particular, had been replenished after the attacks of 2015, reaching 754 million masks in 2017. The members of the Socialist and related group wonder what these masks have become: 600 million masks cannot disappear within three years, without knowing what happened, who decided to destroy them, who decided not to order new masks. I understand that these matters fall within the scope of the work of the committee of inquiry; Nevertheless, we have been asking ourselves for two months and, unless I am mistaken, have still not received any answers. A second set of questions concerns FFP2 masks. In 2015, the stock of these masks was 775 million. During the work of the fact-finding mission, now transformed into a commission of inquiry, no additional information was obtained on this point. I turn now to the orders of masks placed by the Government and local communities after the outbreak of the epidemic. On this point too, we consider the responses of the fact-finding mission to be incomplete. We therefore hope that the commission of inquiry will be able to give a monthly state of affairs, to obtain the purchase orders of the masks, whether they be FFP2, surgical masks or fabric masks purchased by the State, the names of the suppliers, the date of delivery and the attestation of validation of the masks. On this last point, I will tell you an anecdote: in my constituency, a pharmacist found that the masks given by national education were not adequate. I would therefore like to stress, Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, the importance of handing over the validations and certificates. In addition, you will understand, a precise timeline is absolutely necessary. A third set of questions deals with the doctrine of wearing masks. The Government's role has varied over time; I have four pages of quotations here in chronological order. I'm not going to read it tonight. I do not underestimate at all the difficulty in this matter: in the face of a virus that is not known, one can understand that the doctrine varies. However, I am surprised at what is happening today. I have consulted the Ministry of Labour records, organized by profession. In bakeries and pastries, for example, sellers are not obliged to wear the mask. However, in one of the bakeries in my constituency, the agents of the DGCCRF – the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – demanded that the sellers wear one, while respecting the famous rules of distancing with customers, and that a plexiglas had been installed. In this period of definity, a clear doctrine is needed, so that everyone knows what should or should not be done. In theory, according to the sheets proposed by your colleague, the Minister of Labour, "it is only when all the precautions" – that is, the rules of distancing – "is not enough to guarantee the protection of the health and safety of people, that they must be supplemented by individual protective measures, such as wearing the mask. So we need to be clear and give all the instructions to the administrations. You can't verbalize merchants if the rules aren't clear. My fourth point, on which Jean-Louis Bricout will return earlier, concerns the cost. For our part, we have asked here, in questions to the Government of 28 April, that free masks be given to all. You have committed yourself to repay community purchases, on the basis of 2 euros the fabric mask, which is much less than their actual cost to the communities. What about it? On this point, we also expect replies from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u3	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u4	I thank the Socialist Group for asking for a debate on masks to take place in this House: the subject is important and has too often given rise to polemics in recent weeks. The facts must now be examined. Among other legitimate issues, the first is whether a country needs a strategic mask stock. Yes, certainly. Everyone is making up such stocks, especially at the local level. While I was mayor, when creating the communal reserve of civil security, I remember that we had started by equipping ourselves with masks. Secondly, should this strategic stock of masks, at national level, be sufficient to equip the entire population? If the question is legitimate, it is difficult to answer it. According to the health recommendations, a surgical mask should only be worn for three to four hours, requiring at least three masks per day per person. Five working days a week would require 3.7 billion masks to equip the French for a single month, a considerable stock. It is worth recalling that France has never had such a stock. When the stock was at the highest, in 2009, with 750 million FFP2 masks, and 1 billion surgical masks, it was still insufficient to equip all the French for a month. Should we have such a strategic stock? I remember that in 2013, the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security decided to reduce the strategic stock of masks, explaining that private and public employers had to equip themselves to supply their employees, and that the state stock met the need to ensure the safety of health personnel. It was at that time that we began to destroy masks, because of management costs, especially related to storage spaces. Have we made any mistakes? In terms of communication, certainly – Mrs Rabault recalled the floats on this point. In terms of strategy, we may have made the mistake of focusing too scrupulously on regulation. In my riding in Mulhouse, I found that if the masks were declared obsolete and destroyed, it was because of their rubber elastics, which risked dropping, that material becoming rigid after a while. On the other hand, the filter quality and breathability of the mask were approximately intact. We therefore preferred to destroy or, at least, leave in the cartons masks that could have been used, simply because of the expiry of the elastics. We probably made a mistake there – quickly corrected, for the masks that the caregivers had in hand. Finally, last question, what strategy do we have to adopt today? In my view, we need to rebuild a strategic stock of masks, but above all, we need to maintain our sovereignty over mask production capacity. This requirement concerns not only the textile industry, but also, upstream, raw materials. We have seen that, at the time of the crisis, their production stopped brutally in the countries from which we imported it. We must have a resilience capacity, to provide the national stock and meet the needs necessary for the safety of French and French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u5	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u6	At this time of pandemic, our fellow citizens have been quite exemplary, and have followed 99 per cent of the instructions given to them, which is to be welcomed, since the pandemic has largely regressed. The same cannot be said of the management of masks, which, in my view, was particularly chaotic. First, we had to face a shortage. Initially, masks were missing in EHPADs – accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people – and schools, so that some, especially the children of caregivers, could not benefit from this protection. Masks have also been missed in some hospitals. Secondly, the communication was particularly chaotic. I can understand that there are disagreements about the utility of the mask. On the other hand, let the same person declare at the end of January that they are useful, then, in mid-February, that they are not, before again insuring, at the end of April, as the deconfinition approaches, that they are useful, and that this person is called Mr. Jérôme Salomon, that is still leaving a little dreamer! On the Internet, the recordings of these statements are looped. For my part, I have to admit that I don't understand anymore. This cacophony, of course, has only added to mistrust and mistrust. We can't work like that. While stocks amounted to 714 million masks in 2017, of which 98 million were acquired between 2014 and 2016, three years later, while the covid pandemic hit us, with a virulence that was not necessarily expected, there are only 117 million masks left. One wonders at such a decline, worrying to believe that 600 million masks could have disappeared. The press tells us that hundreds of millions of masks were destroyed between December 2019 and March 2020. My arms are falling off me. What was the person who decided that? Destroy them to destroy them? We saw that rubber was sometimes a problem, but finally, these masks could have been used. Are the senior officials who have made this decision – because it's about them – thinking only? Disposal of masks on the grounds that they are out of date? All this leaves me pantois. I can't measure this mess. The masks have been ordered in China, which has difficulty in supplying them as it supplies the whole world. From this point of view, there are things to be reconsidered – I am obviously thinking of the Complaint factory, closed in 2018 when it would have been able to provide the masks we need. I do not blame the current government because the doctrine of changing masks dates from 2011; Since then, successive governments have only applied it. So it's a collective mistake, in a way. Yes, destruction is a different issue. If I do not blame the Government, the essential thing is to find ways to improve the situation. I see that the local authorities are taking charge. The Brittany region, for example, ordered masks in mid-March, even before the state, and distributed them widely to the regional health agency, the ARS, as well as to schools and other public institutions. In other words, the regional public authority replaces the national public authority which has failed; Interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u7	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u8	No, I can tell you, I'm a regional advisor! This risky management of masks is due to a main defect: the administrative technostructure. Centralized management does not provide an overall view of the diversity and needs of the territories. The condition of efficiency is power-sharing between the centre and the regions, which are the leaders of local communities. Once again, they have played their full part. Thus, in my department, the Association of Mayors of France, the AMF, has federated seamstresses to make masks made of fabric. In the face of bankruptcy, the people and their elected representatives took charge!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u9	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u10	The Socialist and Related Group invites us to discuss the management of masks between 2017 and 2020. Nice operation! However, the health disarmament of France did not begin in 2017 but well before, under a so-called socialist majority with the smoking doctrine of sleeping contracts – dormant contracts – imported into France by Marisol Touraine, according to which it should be possible to place massive orders at the appropriate time without having to build up previously stocks. Blindly hurtful of market ideology! Since then, this dogma has not been called into question in any way. We found the result: when the covid-19 crisis began in France, we had barely more than 100 million surgical masks and had no central stock of FFP2 masks. These are the miserable remains of what was a strategic stock of more than 1 billion surgical masks and several hundred million FFP2 masks. Responsibility diluted as close as possible to needs, combined with a policy of austerity without means of control, has had the same devastating effects as elsewhere: accountability at all levels, failure of prevention policy. The desire to achieve end-of-candle savings has resulted in a shortage of masks in recent months. The Prime Minister may say that he will not let anyone say that there has been a shortage, pretending the opposite is a lie. Macron claims that we've never been out of masks: it's also a lie. In my constituency in Pantin, the President of the Republic even went to congratulate the caregivers on their resourcefulness in the face of the shortage. Martial and grandiose words have been used to hide the unpreparation of the State and the inability of the Government to respond in time. Caregivers were exposed as soldiers at the front, instead of receiving protection against the virus and being recognized as health professionals who needed equipment to work properly. During confinement, press articles chained up to show that masks were missing everywhere and that industrialists who did not produce priority materials to contain the epidemic were better served than hospitals. The president of the scientific council said that confinement was not the right decision, it was the least bad decision. Yes, given the impossibility of distributing masks in sufficient numbers, even to caregivers! Hospital care providers have been rationed, city medicine has not been adequately provided, and what about the Government's recommendations to the general public! We were first taken for fools by saying that masks were useless, and then saying that we were unable to use them, before we got rid of each other. On April 29, Minister, I asked you myself about the planning measures for the production and distribution of masks, and you replied: "There was no need to make requisitions since our country is experiencing a general mobilization" to produce masks. No doubt you thought so to sweep the subject... Funest belief in the invisible hand of the market! Yes, the textile industry has mobilized because people want to help when they can. Companies have invested and hired to respond to the call. As a result, since you have refused to requisition and the state must therefore buy production and plan for distribution, these companies end up with unsold stocks. What irony: after the shortage, overproduction! The invisible hand of the market therefore produces only disasters. Imported disposable masks sell more when they pose a serious waste treatment problem and spread all over the world. The "made in France" without planning is a frying failure. Without solidarity protectionism, imported masks cost less: here it is, the next world! As always, the premium goes to the big move of the world and polluting solutions. How many companies will want to help and do well because of your inability to plan anything? The dressmakers who organized themselves in the emergency to provide masks to caregivers who did not have them were first ordered to give them, as if their raw materials, working time and know-how were free! Even in times of war, we pay the workers. Once again, the majority of women's professions have been devalued. While they are absolutely indispensable, it would be said that they would be worth nothing and that they would not be paid! It's a shame. The goodwill that was mobilized during the confinement was deeply thanked on the grounds that solidarity was an obstacle to free and undistorted competition. The cost of the mask certification test is at least 1100 euros. It is inaccessible to a professional seamstress working on her own; certification is therefore de facto reserved for industrialists. That is the solidarity and self-organization of the people trampled on! Do you want to learn from this health crisis? Yes, we must put an end to free and undistorted competition, the rule of the whole market and the dismantling of the state. Yes, we must anticipate the next possible epidemic. Yes, it is necessary to plan and prepare the production and distribution of masks if necessary. Yes, we need to rebuild a strategic state stock.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u11	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u12	In an interview dated 18 May, the President of the Republic stated that the country had never been in disarray during the period of health crisis that we have just experienced. To say the least clumsy, this statement is part of a series of dysfunctions that many experts have not failed to identify. The debate on the use of masks and the management of stocks is now seen by the most lucid as a total aberration. By first explaining that the masks were of little or no use, and then, in a second stage, that their wearing had become indispensable for all, the Government has constantly discredited itself and raised many questions and concerns, which I consider justified. The Government now owes replies to the French. In such an important period, all the light must be shed on this major dysfunction of the State, which was to protect caregivers and the entire population. This fiasco of masks is not new, and it would not be right to blame the entire responsibility of this general cacophony – if not of the lie – solely for Mr. Philippe's government. For several years now, mask stocks have been decreasing. However, renewed considerably in 2009, when Roselyne Bachelot was head of the Ministry of Health, the masks were then simply abandoned by successive governments. While Jérôme Salomon indicated in 2016 that France was ill prepared to deal with a possible epidemic, nothing was done to stop this policy of destruction of stocks, or at least their non-renewal. France has therefore undergone this impreparation with full force. The chronic lack of masks has persisted for several weeks in a context of mortifying immobilism. Although the French Government apparently ordered several million masks in February, it was well aware that they would not be available for several months. Was that enough to declare them useless? In addition, it has now been shown that orders placed during this period were insufficient. To which administrative task has the task been delegated? At the same time, the French stocks of masks then reserved for caregivers were partly destroyed. Within three years, the mask stock was divided by six. Let us remember that it has been well in the last few years that this stock has suffered the largest fall. The first to suffer were the liberal doctors, who paid the high price: the number of those who died is four times higher than the number of deaths among hospital doctors. They were in combat without protection or weapons, because they were prevented from treating. As for you, Minister, you have certainly announced the massive arrival of masks as early as March, but it must be noted that the reality was different. On the other hand, your reactivity regarding the dismissal of the director of the Great East SAR, who had taken the liberty and initiative to order 5 million masks, surprised more than one. There is once again an explosive cocktail mixing administrative slowness, lack of real political decision-making and punishment of those who have taken it. It is now obvious to everyone: the destruction of the mask stock was a serious mistake and no one wants to take responsibility for it. Thus, as the newspaper Le Monde points out, the executive would have tripled by neglecting the importance of stock renewal, by considerably reducing their production and, finally, by destroying masks which, however, were perfectly usable. We have therefore witnessed the total failure of the State, which has attempted to hide the lack of resources through contradictory political and health statements that have only strengthened the climate of mistrust of the citizens towards the Government. In short, the fiasco of the management of masks during the health crisis of the covid -19 reveals inconsistencies but also lies. By removing existing stocks and then not seizing all opportunities for ordering, the State has seriously failed to protect its citizens. While the caregivers bravely fought the virus, the French state was not able to give them the weapons they needed to fight. Although we now know the main lines of this dramatic episode, the elected representatives and the citizens are waiting for explanations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u13	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u14	[[Applause]] The masks were one of the challenges of the epidemic. Before addressing this issue, let me return to the Government's announcement of the establishment of an internal commission of inquiry to look independently and collegiately at the coronavirus crisis. I wonder about the schizophrenia of the Government which, one day, censors the elected ones and, the next day, marches on them. I recall that such committees have already been established in the National Assembly and the Senate. I am all the more surprised, Minister, that you come from these benches yourself and that you should be an essential link in explaining the role of Parliament to those who may not know it. The Constitution explicitly provides for Parliament to monitor the work of the Government and to evaluate public policies. That is precisely why we are meeting this evening, within the framework of a well-named week of control. I would also like to point out that the persons interviewed by the committees of inquiry are sworn in, or they may be held criminally responsible, and that the rapporteurs have supervisory powers to obtain all the information necessary to facilitate the exercise of their duties. Could you please inform us about the Government's intentions in this regard? Let us not add suspicion where we need clarity and transparency. Let's go back to the question of masks. With regard to the management of stocks as such, while many expect to find only one culprit, I believe that the administrative chain has experienced a serious dysfunction caused by decisions of an aboveground technostructure. In fact, policy makers have gradually been divested, in favour of the administration, of these subjects, which are nevertheless of crucial importance. However, it is not necessary to exonerate the elected representatives, for it is in full consciousness that they have sometimes left power, which our fellow citizens had entrusted to them, to their administrations. It is ironic, to say the least, that the socialists ask for a debate on the management of masks between 2017 and 2020, ignoring the past...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u15	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u16	... and the previous quinquennium, during which the doctrine was reviewed and the stock of masks destroyed, while they were in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u17	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u18	Indeed, following the crisis caused by the H1N1 influenza, the National Assembly had set up a commission of inquiry, whose president was Jean-Christophe Lagarde and the rapporteur Jean-Pierre Door, who had concluded that it was necessary to build up regional stocks of masks, managed by an Institution for the preparation and response of health emergencies – EPRUS – decentralized. Two years later, Marisol Touraine and the socialist government decided to crush the EPRUS on the altar of the administration to create Santé publique France, while the establishment had largely proved its worth in logistics. In addition, Marisol Touraine unilaterally decided to leave the stocks of FFP2 masks, which are more expensive than the FFP1 and which should have remained the responsibility of the State and not of hospital structures whose budget had already been massacred. These technocratic decisions have had serious human and financial repercussions. So, minister, would you accept that parliamentarians, at the end of this crisis, work with you to revisit the decision-making process and determine the best organisation for managing individual equipment? [[Thierry Benoit applauds]] My last question is of an economic nature: many French textile companies, especially Vosges, have, in the time of this crisis, reoriented their production, in order to bring their stone to the building and to help their fellow citizens. Only the administration, again, has requested more and more tests, issued certain standards and developed administrative records to certify masks. What was valid at the beginning of the crisis was no longer valid at the middle or end, not because of the quality of the products, but because of the administrative burden needed to validate them. Mr Minister, is there any plan to help the textile sector, which suffers enormously from the closure of the hospitality and catering industries, and which was present when the shirt had to be wet?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u19	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u20	We are gathered tonight at the invitation of our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group to discuss the management of masks since 2017. Objectivity requires us to embrace a longer period and go back to the H1N1 epidemic, which was a tipping point, as the then Minister of Health was mocked and accused of gabegie for the purchase of millions of vaccines and masks. As our country has just gone through one of the most serious crises in its history and as nearly 30,000 citizens have lost their lives in recent months, we must, out of regard for their loved ones and out of respect for all the French, strive to make a speech of truth. In the face of the terrible record of the pandemic, the time has not come for the political polemics consisting, for the parties that have exercised power, of "reciting the hot potato" and, in the end, of "heavy universal lies", in the words of Albert Camus. Faced with this unprecedented crisis in the recent history of our country, let us live up to the unwavering commitment of all the healthcare workers, cashiers and cashiers, garbagemen, drivers and bus drivers, and all the others, who have worked, and continue to do so, in the front line, towards and against everything, often at the risk of their lives. Like all our fellow citizens, they now demand explanations. All want to understand why the sixth world economic power has not been able to provide enough masks and protective material to protect them. This is one of the reasons why the French were entitled to wait for a completely impartial commission of inquiry, giving themselves the task of identifying the numerous dysfunctions that we all found in the health management of the crisis of the covid-19. However, as journalists Gérard Davet and Fabrice Lhomme revealed in a survey published by Le Monde last month, the current Government is not alone responsible for the situation in which our country has been in over the past few months. The governments of Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande also bear a heavy share of responsibility, which it would be useful, but also commendable, to recognize and assume. Indeed, limiting our debates on mask management to the last three years does not stand the test of numbers and facts. In May 2009, our country had a reserve estimated at 2.2 billion masks; At that time, France was still considered by the World Health Organization as one of the best prepared countries in the world to deal with a possible pandemic. Yet, year after year, the mask reserve has inexorably melted, under the assault of a managerial management which is concerned with savings; As a result, there were only 1.4 billion masks in 2011, 714 million in 2017 and only 117 million at the beginning of 2020. The circular of 2 December 2011, signed by Xavier Bertrand, Minister of Health of Nicolas Sarkozy, is not an administrative product, but rather that of a political choice, as is the one of 11 June 2013, signed by Marisol Touraine, Minister of Health of François Hollande: they are part of these decisions that have devoted budgetary austerity to the detriment of the protection of our fellow citizens, endorsing the progressive disengagement of the State in the management of masks. Similarly, the dissolution of the EPRUS in May 2016 is part of these catastrophic decisions, which led our country to relegate to the background the precautionary principle that prevailed until then, precipitating it into scarcity when the need arose. It was the various governments that succeeded each other since 2009, or even before that date, that worked to create the shortage that we suffered during the covid -19 pandemic. In order to meet the challenges ahead, but also to gain confidence, everyone must begin by taking responsibility for the tragedy that we have just experienced: all the governments that have been in place for the last 20 years have believed that it is necessary to limit health spending and to make them the principle of tight flows to achieve savings; all have contributed to the permanent denunciation of the supposed gabegie of hospitals and have worked to reduce their budgetary capacity. It is imperative that we leave, in the greatest transparency, the flight forward and the confinement in a deadly, dangerous and inhumane accounting logic. A complete and complete overhaul of our preventive doctrine is required. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] I will end with a phrase that may surprise some, but is perfectly adapted to the situation: Minister, if you do not reverse the current logic, your policy will, to use Coluche's expression, have "as much effect as stings in buttocks".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u21	Mr Thierry Michels has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u22	Much has been said, will be said tonight and will continue to be said tomorrow on the masks. Let us start with the criticisms: many are busy and wonder why France, a world power, was not able to provide masks to its citizens from the beginning of the crisis. In the past, the same people had to be advocates of the Minister of Health at the time of the H1N1 epidemic, Roselyne Bachelot, who was criticized for being "too cautious." These same people were able to sit in this House, where no concern or even interest in the levels of mask stocks was heard before the crisis – I can testify as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, far from me the idea of polemicing on a subject that deserves our full attention and apologizing for what cannot be. This debate must be approached with all the humility, seriousness and setback necessary to draw all the lessons of this crisis. Where did we go from? In 2008, France had a strategic stock of 1 billion surgical masks, a stock that grew by several hundred million units during the H1N1 epidemic. The stock of FFP2 masks also earned more than 500 million units. Too much, given the experience of the H1N1 epidemic, which led to the evolution of doctrine. Thus, as of 2013, the national stock managed by the EPRUS only concerned surgical protective masks for patients and their contacts, while the stocks of health personnel protection masks were borne by employers. What have we been confronted with? At the beginning of the crisis, France had a strategic stock of 150 million surgical masks, which appeared very quickly insufficient in view of the scale of the needs. As we were confronted with a massive and rapid global crisis, which first affected our first supplier, China, our country was unable to restock quickly, since other countries were also passing mass orders. Very early on, France, like most countries, had to deal with a risk of mask shortages. This doctrine, which empowers all actors, was based on an essential assumption, that of the ability to quickly obtain supplies in international markets, particularly from China, in the event of an emergency. In response to this situation, the Government has taken two decisions. Initially, on 3 March, he requisitioned all the stocks of masks held by legal persons on French soil. In a second phase, he reserved the distribution of masks for caregivers, so that they could cope with the influx of patients with covid -19. This choice took place at a time when scientific advice could diverge on the need for the mask to be worn for the general population, and when the effectiveness of barrier actions was required before the ultimate measure of containment. To complete the stock, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health ordered more than 3 billion masks: despite high uncertainties, an airlift was established between France and China. We also quickly stimulated and revived the national production of surgical masks, FFP2 and the general public in fabric. Here we must welcome the mobilisation of the companies and citizens who responded to the call. For example, since May 11, the date of the break-up, 100 million masks have been distributed every week to healthcare professionals and 5 million to the most modest French. We have masks, we only have to wear them now. What have we learned from these difficulties? May our time call us to take more seriously the prevention of major risks. The functioning of our complex, interconnected and interdependent societies can be affected if an element as basic and essential as a mask is missing. But salvation cannot come from a reflex of retreat on oneself and from an impossible self-righteousness; On the contrary, more international cooperation is needed, primarily within the European Union. It is between Europeans that we need to work on the prevention of major risks, by studying in common the scenarios which sometimes hold improbable and drawing the appropriate conclusions. It is also between Europeans that we need to strengthen our strategic sovereignty in the field of health: this is the whole meaning of Franco-German innovation, announced on 17 May. To govern is to predict that a virus can upset all our certainties, to predict, which is the most difficult, that the unthinkable is indeed possible. It is a French and European insurance that we must acquire in order to prepare ourselves for the worst, so anticipate the emergence of major risks, prevent their appearance and, if not enough, control their consequences, constantly question our strategy, test the intended devices and put our work over 100 times to improve it. Our Assembly also has its role to play: we must continue to bring it up to the challenges, in particular by mobilizing the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Science and Technology Options or the Committee for the Evaluation and Monitoring of Public Policies. Finally, no prevention policy can be effective without involving citizens: discussion, debate and collective and citizen understanding of the issues are fundamental elements that we will need to have in mind in order to face challenges of the same magnitude tomorrow. We French now know that prevention is essential: let us draw all the lessons from it and, elected as citizens, let us act!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u23	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u24	The major crisis that we are going through shows us that, unfortunately, we are not immune to large-scale health crises, which require a central but also local analysis, reflection, anticipation and preparation by the public authorities, which have been sorely lacking. The issue of wearing the mask has been on the news since the beginning of the health crisis: we have witnessed multiple procrastinations and changes in Government doctrine, which have created real mistrust and considerably increased the gap with the population. The Government initially considered that the mask was not useful and did not recommend it. At the same time, local authorities – regions, departments and municipalities – have mobilized; As for the citizens, they questioned and competed with ingenuity by making fabric masks themselves to protect themselves from droplets. Now, the Government is very much recommending wearing the mask, which we can all recognize as being effective and acting as a barrier against the spread of the virus: this is undeniable and unquestionable. We may wonder whether the Government's doctrine and its evolution have been controlled more by the state of stocks than by the needs. We have been discussing the management of masks since 2017, but it seems to me that we need to go further. In 2012, national stocks of masks and various pharmaceutical treatments were high due to the risks posed by H1N1 influenza. Shortly thereafter a radical change of doctrine took place. In fact, a decree published in 2013 encourages every employer and hospital to build up its own stock of masks: it is the de facto abandonment of stock management by the State through the EPRUS, created in 2007 and dissolved in 2016, when its powers are merged with those of other agencies within the National Public Health Agency. The observation is clear: the stock of masks draconianly decreases. Did we know? That's right. The National Public Health Agency estimated in a report published in May 2019 that, in the event of an influenza pandemic, the need would be 1 billion masks. Moreover, in 2016, Jérôme Salomon published a note in which he believes that France is not ready to face an epidemic, and that it must adapt its various organisations to the specifics of the major crises ahead and the many challenges ahead. It must be noted that he was not heard. Gradually, from year to year, mask stocks are shrinking due to a policy of destruction and non-renewal of stocks. Minister, in January 2020, and then in February 2020, you confirmed, in questions to the Government, that there were only 140 million masks in the national stock. In other words, in three years, the stock has been divided by six. Liberal health professionals, as well as hospital staff, EHPAD staff and those in nursing homes, paid a high price, as well as people working in the home care sector. All worked daily, at the risk of their lives. We must resume centralized management of mask stocks, which represent a strategic issue. The Government has hidden the truth about the state of the stocks, which has placed our health system at serious risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u25	Who hid what? We hid the truth?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u26	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The wearing of the mask must be generalized, first and foremost for those on the front line. We must also organise their distribution, which was very difficult during the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u27	The commission of inquiry is under oath!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u28	Tell Benalla!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u29	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u30	Three weeks after a first session devoted, within the framework of a week of control, to the management of mask stocks, we are here again to discuss it, this time at the initiative of the Socialist and related group, which wanted to limit the debate to the current legislature. But everyone here must have the honesty to recognize that the management of the mask stock cannot be evaluated by adopting such a minimalist vision. It seems to us more sensible to analyse the management of the strategic stock of masks over the long term, starting from its constitution. This analysis has been conducted and explained on several occasions. In 2009, a Senate report indicated that the state held 720 million FFP2 masks and 1 billion surgical masks. This was the highest level in our country. Until 2011, the stocks remained relatively stable, before experiencing a foreseeable decline due to the expiration of the oldest masks. All this leads us to 2013, which most observers call a turning point. In that year, responsibility for the acquisition and management of masks was transferred to the employer, who was responsible for "building mask stocks to protect his staff". In 2015, a Senate report sounded a warning about the change in doctrine by the then government, deploring "the significant decrease in the quantity and value of stocks" and the non-renewal of stocks that came to an end. In 2016, the creation of the Agence Santé publique France significantly changed the ecosystem of the management of strategic stocks of health products and protective equipment. The consolidation of several entities, including the EPRUS, into a centralized organization has undoubtedly led to a certain infraction of decision-making on the constitution and management of stocks. This concludes a history that we thought was useful to recall. In this context, it appears that the previous change in doctrine has not been radically altered over the past three years. State logistics seems to have gradually discharged its prerogatives, to the benefit of hospital operators and private employers. It therefore seems essential to establish a clear and precise assessment of decisions, or non-decisions, taken over the last ten years, and not only of the last three, which makes no sense. That this debate is intended to allow those who have been responsible for five years to relieve their conscience is one thing, but a public session devoted to monitoring the Government's action is not meant to turn into a court to condemn or clear anyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u31	Your fork languished, Mrs. Elimas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u32	The various commissions of inquiry recently installed will have the prerogative to shed light on the management of mask stocks, not since 2017 but since 2009.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u33	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u34	There is no doubt that the light will be shed and that the lessons will be learned. They will have to bring us together to build a health and prevention policy that meets the challenges revealed in recent months. As the debate on the agenda is limited to the period from 2017 to 2020, let us talk about the months ahead. Let us take advantage of the observed calm to ask us the right questions and prepare for the future in the short, medium and long term! This necessarily requires the establishment of a clear and precise doctrine on the constitution of State stockpiles of protective equipment. Minister, can you clarify the Government's intentions regarding such a doctrine for the next few years? How will it be organised? What funding will be allocated? Above all, how do you plan to improve the management of this stock, in particular to make it more transparent? In addition, we have learned over the last few days that a significant number of masks, ordered massively at the height of the crisis, were no longer taken. As a result, stocks – since that is what we are talking about – would accumulate. How will they be managed? What flexibility will be given to the local and regional authorities which have invested in their acquisition?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u35	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u36	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u37	The management of mask stocks has caused a lot of ink to flow and a lot of voices to resonate – and this is certainly not over. Addressing this issue for the period 2017-2020 does not exempt the initial stock situation, in particular as regards the equipment essential for the protection of the most exposed health personnel such as FFP2 masks. The first developments in the strategic management of state stocks date back to 2011, when a smoothing of their renewal of 25% per year – i.e. the establishment of a rotating stock – is envisaged. In the management of state stocks, opinions justifying the changes in strategy are sometimes divergent, due to the oversized management of stocks during the H1N1 health crisis, particularly with regard to vaccines. In any event, since 2011, state-owned stocks have been growing. This situation requires the use of the market in the event of a crisis, which requires a high degree of responsiveness in order to place an order. Yet, even though, on 24 January 2020, the first three cases are recorded on metropolitan territory, and more and more cases are recorded, until the end of February, at which time the spread of the virus and the damage it caused in China, which the World Health Organization – WHO – called the international public health emergency covid-19 epidemic as early as 30 January, which suppliers said they were already overburdened with regard to external orders and about to do so for delivery times, can you confirm, Minister, that the first State orders were only effective at the end of February 2020? If that is the case, it means that long weeks go by without any orders being placed, even though many of our fellow citizens are already rushing into the officiaries. Moreover, the controversy over the lack of masks among liberal doctors broke out on 18 February, when the French state supplied seventeen tons of medical equipment to China and indicated that it would continue to provide logistical assistance in the following weeks. This medical equipment contains a large amount of masks, which could have been used two weeks later, when the pandemic reached France. Minister, do you think that the Government has sufficiently anticipated the urgency of the needs, given the stock situation and the decisions taken previously in this regard, even though the health professionals have repeatedly alerted you to the absolute need to protect them? With regard to the distribution of masks to front-line health professionals, pharmacists, together with other health professionals, were requisitioned by the Government. They spoke in a forum where they said they were outraged by the way the Government managed the distribution of masks. In this rostrum, published at the end of April, they address you with these words: "How can we explain that our caregivers could not have been fitted with masks when we announce with great strenuous communication of ridiculous figures of masks sold to the public by certain distribution channels? Where were these masks when our doctors, nurses, pharmacists, dental surgeons, massagers-kinesistherapists, pedicures-podologists, midwives, but also all our personnel taking direct medication with the disease, trembled and fell every morning? Minister, do you think you have lived up to the recognition of our pharmacists for their investment in the health crisis and the risks they have taken for themselves, their families and their patients? When it comes to wearing the mask – a real saga! – even though the evolution of the spread of the virus required clear and precise guidelines, in order for everyone to protect themselves or others, taking into account the risks they must take in medical, professional or private activities, our citizens have remained in the most complete expectation, and sometimes the most complete misunderstanding, particularly with regard to the use of so-called "non-care" masks. As for the price, efforts have certainly been made to control the price charged to the final customer – a reduction in VAT and a ceiling price – but they are far from being sufficient or even effective. The reduction in VAT has more often resulted in an improvement in the retailer's margin than in a real decrease in the final price. The ceiling price, on the other hand, has precipitated buyers seeking to optimize margins to imported products. A margin imposed would certainly have better protected the French market. What do you think? Finally, since the wearing of the mask is strongly recommended, or even mandatory in some cases, do you not think that it is the duty of the State to ensure that everyone is able to equip himself? Studies show that the most vulnerable populations have suffered particularly from the crisis. Are you contemplating – our group is constantly demanding it – to ensure that this protection is free of charge, which you now consider essential?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u38	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u39	The management of individual protective equipment has raised – and continues to raise – many questions, which is not illegitimate, as it is legitimate for the Government to respond to them. The Prime Minister has done so in this House and in the Senate, as well as at press conferences on the epidemic. I myself have answered many questions to the Government, the National Assembly and the Senate; I have participated here – also at a late hour – in several debates on the management of mask stocks. However, the situation tonight is a little different, in more than one way. First of all, the theme of the debate, focusing on the management of mask stocks from 2017 to 2020, is very specific. Everyone here knows that a commission of inquiry has been set up to assess the management of the health crisis. It will address – I do not imagine otherwise – the issue of the management of protective materials and the issue of mask doctrine. Secondly, the questions asked this evening are not only technical. They relate to political arbitrations. I doubt that tonight's sitting is the right place to comment on political decisions taken even before my appointment, given that we consider the period from 2017 to 2020. The truths of yesterday are not those of today. However, I can say that the public authorities took the decision, some ten years ago, to equip France with 1 billion surgical masks and 600 million FFP2 masks. I invite everyone to re-read the minutes of the parliamentary debates that took place following these orders. There may be, for some of us, a learning of humility, which will come with time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u40	For everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u41	Regardless of the decision-making processes for which stocks have not been renewed over time, mask stocks have been reduced year after year. When the covid-19 outbreak emerged, the state stock amounted to approximately 120 million unexpired adult surgical masks and had no FFP2 masks. This is the status of the stocks I found when I arrived at the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u42	What about the first order?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u43	As early as January, the Government mobilized to provide masks to health professionals. All levers have been activated, with as a priority the protection of our health system and its professionals. Every effort has been made to ensure the long-term delivery of masks for health professionals. In this context, we have been supporting the national industrial fabric for several weeks. The level of production has tripled in our territory, reaching a production of 12 million masks per week. We aim for self-sufficiency before the end of the year, and by then will complete our domestic production with imports, to consolidate stocks. For example, since March, we have received and distributed more than 700 million protective masks for health care professionals. I cannot speak more about the management of stocks before I take up my duties, but I am confident that the work and dialogues carried out within the various commissions of inquiry will help to clarify the way in which they are managed in recent years. I would also like to respond to some of the points that have just been raised. Mrs Elimas, thank you for reminding us that we are here in Parliament and not in court – I myself was a parliamentarian a short time ago, and I know that I am not before lawyers or prosecutors, but before representatives of the nation. I hope that the committee of inquiry will shed some light on this, as you do. I note in passing that, since yesterday, one sees a beginning in the press of accusations of having ordered too many masks – I myself mentioned this future trial here, a month ago, by provocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u44	Too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u45	Read some articles, read some comments... Mr Becht, you are right: to protect the entire population with masks for a week, we would need the equivalent of the national stock we had, that is, more than 1 billion masks. Now we have been supplying masks for several months... If the nation wishes, tomorrow, to have at all times a stock of masks sufficient to protect the entire population during a three-month epidemic, then it will be necessary to make masks! It would probably take something like 15 to 20 billion. This can be the choice of the nation, of course. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Naegelen called for parliamentarians to be involved in the reconstruction of the health security system. This will obviously be the case; We will all have to do this, and we will have to determine the choices of the nation. In an epidemic of coronavirus, we talk a lot about masks, but if we look well and want to protect ourselves from all the health risks, then we will have to predict many other materials – billions of pairs of gloves, for example. This requires a broad debate, in which it is normal for parliamentarians to be involved. [[Smile]] Mr Thierry Michels, you welcomed the Government's action: even from a member of the majority, it feels good. Thank you, too, for pointing out that many issues are still before us, including the determination of a European strategy. It is true that we must be able to predict the unforeseeable: it is a challenge that we must face collectively, without controversy, in a fairly neutral way. The mask is neither on the right nor on the left, nor even on the move: it is a tool for protecting the population. Mr Becht, we are rebuilding the stocks. Before we consider that we have enough masks, or too many, or not enough, we need to set a target level that will allow us to protect the population sufficiently, and over time. Reindustrialization policy is under way; the climb in charge continues. I myself met, last week, industrialists who recycled themselves into manufacturers of protective masks: this is a great collective adventure. Now we need to know how far we go, and how we go with our businesses. I hear Mr Molac's remarks on the chaos of communication and the lack of consensus in the scientific community. On the other hand, I must tell you one thing: at the hearings of the Committee of Inquiry, unlike you, Mrs Wonner, Mrs Corneloup, I will take an oath.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u46	Tell Benalla!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u47	What I will say will commit me criminally, and I will therefore be careful not to produce untruths and to dry them up as truths. We are not on Twitter, Mr Molac, but in the Chamber: when you say without brows that the first Breton order of masks takes place on 6 March, so before the state order, can you attest it? Would you repeat it under oath?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u48	I talked about mid-March.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u49	I signed the requisition order on March 4. Believe me, before we got there, masks, we had ordered them... Let us pay attention to what we say. Mrs. Wonner, when you say that the director general of the ARS Grand Est was dismissed for ordering 5 million masks, do you really believe what you're saying? Talk to your colleagues in the region, talk to the elected officials! If you think so, come and say it on oath next week in a committee of inquiry. That will be extremely interesting. Once again, I will take the oath, and my words will commit me: I am very proud of it. But you're parliamentarians. Now, you are deceitful in the Chamber, and that seems serious to me, I would like to tell you. Mrs Corneloup, you say that we have hidden the truth about mask stocks. At my first press conference on this subject, I give the figure I give you this evening, which I will give again next week in committee of inquiry: 117 million. I never hid the truth about the stock!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u50	There was no problem, everything went well, it's perfect...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There's probably a thousand things to blame for, and I'm probably less free of criticism than anyone else, but you really can't pretend that I wanted to hide the truth! Transparency has been a cardinal value, even when it put us in trouble – I will continue to say it under oath next week.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u52	He's rewriting the story!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u53	In the same way, Mr. Molac, sometimes a mask is destroyed because it is not usable by caregivers. I've learned that since I was a minister, because I didn't know more than you: there are two criteria for deciding whether a mask is usable by caregivers, on the one hand, filtration capacity and on the other hand, breathability. If the filtration capacity is less than a certain percentage, these masks cannot be given to caregivers; And if I had given insufficiently filtered masks to caregivers in hospitals, then for the moment the commission of inquiry would have serious questions to ask me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u54	There'll be questions anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u55	What about the garbage bags?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u56	It was not I who determined that these masks were out of use; They were analyzed, two years before I became a minister, and they received destruction vouchers because their filtration capabilities and breathability were no longer consistent with sanitary use. On the other hand, when we defined an AFNOR standard of masks for the general public, with filter and breathability criteria less stringent than those required for caregivers, we were able to recover some of the masks for distribution. The others, I say again, will be destroyed. Mr Lachaud, I have already come back to the words lent to the President of the Republic, which have been cut off. What he said was that we never went down to zero: we were always able to distribute masks. No one says they were in sufficient numbers – me the first! If we distribute 100 million masks a week while at one time we distributed 30 or 40 million masks, it's good that we didn't have enough masks then. But, I say again, we have never fallen to zero. It may be interesting, on this subject, to compare ourselves with the countries around us, for a commission to have an independent look at crisis management in different countries. Look at what happened in Germany, a country often cited as an example, in Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom, the United States... Comparison is never uninteresting. Sometimes, when you compare yourself, you console yourself; Sometimes we can also say that we have a collective interest in preparing – on a global scale, why not, but at least on a European scale. Thus, if a similar crisis were to occur, we would not experience the difficulties that we have experienced – and that all countries have experienced. An anecdote: at a meeting of health ministers in Brussels, at a time when the epidemic is only starting, only four or five of us consider that it will really hit Europe. When I met a health minister from another Member State, I asked him if he was in trouble for the masks: "So far, we are quiet, we have 5 million in stock," he replied! We need to make decisions to prepare for other pandemics. I believe deeply in Europe, and I deeply believe that the European scale is not the worst for designing this protection. As far as the evolution of masking doctrine is concerned, as I have already said, everyone reads the press and can see: from 1 April, the recommendations evolve, and it is beginning to be said that the mask can be useful in the general population. We can talk about this very quietly in the committee of inquiry. Do you know when the World Health Organization recommended wearing the mask as a general population in some cases, such as public transport or closed professional environments? It wasn't a long time ago: it was three days ago. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Scientific doctrines, state doctrines, international doctrines evolve, one after the other. We will list these developments for the committee of inquiry, so that you have an overview of the recommendations of each institute, of each structure, on a day-to-day basis. We can of course judge yesterday's decisions with today's gaze, and consider them not to be good; But at the time they were made, they were corroborated by sufficient scientific arguments to say that they were not the worst possible decisions. In hindsight, would we do otherwise? I don't know. This is also the subject of the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u57	We come to the questions. Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u58	During the crisis of the Covid-19, our country faced a shortage of masks, this was recalled. After the controversies that have taken place, it seems to me important to know the truth about stock management; the elements that you can provide will allow us to engage in a discussion of the lessons to be learned, so as not to fall back into the serious wanderings that we have experienced. This shortage has had a direct impact on the health of the French, in particular on the health of the personnel who were mobilized during the crisis. Now we have to think about the adaptations that will have to prepare for a possible return of the epidemic, but also future health crises that could be even more serious – as scientists say long ago, the melting of permafrost could release particularly destructive viruses. We will therefore have to have very large stocks to deal with epidemics, but also to be able to distribute them on a large scale, and free of charge, especially to front-line professionals, to the most fragile populations and to our fellow citizens who face economic constraints. Beyond availability, it is therefore essential to focus on storage and distribution conditions. Are there any changes planned in this area to learn from the crisis? Are the stocks properly distributed throughout the country, or do we need to plan for changes to ensure that the whole population can quickly have the necessary masks? With regard to orders and distributions, how can we arbitrate between public and private actors? Should it be left to companies to provide for the means to protect their employees, which would raise the question of storage? Should any lessons be learned about the distribution of masks? Are the organisation of distribution chains, human and technical resources sufficient to deal with a major crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u59	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u60	As I said, we must establish a strategy on the issue of masks, in the medium and long term. We must ensure a rotation: what happened with these famous orders from the early 2000s is that these masks did not have a expiry date. It was therefore difficult to know whether they were still compliant with the standards and usable – I looked at the question: technically, it is not simple. Today, masks have expiry dates; This will ensure a rotation of stocks, in order to guarantee a given level. It's complex, from a logistical point of view, but we're going to do it. It remains to be seen what is the right level. If we want to protect the entire population for three months in the event of a pandemic, we need 20 billion masks: that would mean building 20 huge warehouses and ensuring a permanent rotation... Maybe it's the choice of the nation! Perhaps we will choose instead to have a stock of 1, 2 or 3 billion masks, and to count for the rest on orders. What happened in this epidemic was that it started by touching Wuhan, who is unfortunately also the world mask manufacturing area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u61	Let's move!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u62	All the production plants were stationary when the whole world was looking for masks... This has exacerbated the difficulties. When the factories left, the production arrived massively: we made aerial bridges and caught masks. We can manage crises, but if we want to be autonomous, not depend on a foreign country, especially far away, to protect ourselves in the event of epidemic risks, then we must act. But you don't have to think about masks alone. It is a reflection which is not uninteresting, and which will not take us three weeks: an exhaustive list of the necessary protections will have to be drawn up. Let's imagine a virus that gets caught by the hands... I'm not kidding: maybe we need to be able to buy billions of pairs of gloves to store them in warehouses. It will be the choice of the nation, there will be a debate, and you will participate, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u63	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u64	For many years successive governments have maintained very large stocks of masks. Then the doctrine of inventory management was changed. Thus, at the beginning of the previous quinquennium, it was decided that it was transferred to hospitals and businesses. Were hospitals informed of stocks at national level in order to adapt their orders? Did they have the financial means of their ambitions? Many professionals were surprised to learn that there were 150 million masks in the stock, compared to over 1 billion only eight years ago. If hospitals were not aware of this, how could they anticipate the purchase of these protective tools. If this aspect of the management of the health crisis is central, it should not be used to put heads on spades. That is why I am particularly surprised at the title of the theme chosen by my Socialist colleagues. Would it not be the former Minister of Health, Marisol Touraine, who made a dangerous change of doctrine on the management of masks?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u65	And since 2017?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u66	President Hollande had the humility to recognize his share of responsibility in the situation of the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u67	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u68	It is therefore surprising to hear the former Minister of Health say: "It cannot be said that the stocks were not maintained when I was a minister. "You can run away from everything except your conscience," said Stefan Zweig. Did your department know where the masks were stored? You acknowledged that a significant number of masks had been destroyed since 2017, because they were mouldy or out of date. How can a surgical mask mould if it is not stored in bad conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u70	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u71	Thank you for your question and for Stefan Zweig's lovely quote. It is not for me to judge the responsibility of a particular Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u72	Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u73	At one time, the system was a little self-management; It is based on a pilotage cell and warehouses – France has two large warehouses, one in Marolles, and ten off-site storage areas. It is less a political decision on the part of a minister or president than the organization of the watch over the material and the protective capacity that is involved. Have sufficient resources been allocated to ensure the availability of equipment with no expiry date? This question haunts me just as much as you, if not more, Madam Member, because I have taken up my duties in this state of affairs and I pay a high price – the French and the caregivers, all those who have been deprived of equipment to protect themselves in good conditions, have paid an even higher price. The light must be made, in the first place to move forward and to know how to avoid finding ourselves in the delicate situation that we have experienced. To answer Jean-Louis Bricout, the first orders of masks that I can trace – I cannot speak on behalf of my predecessors, a commission of inquiry will soon be installed – date from January 2020. On 28 January, an order was placed, which was considerably reinforced in the first week of February. At the end of February, we placed an order for 200 million masks. It is not for me to judge, but I am not a judge and a judge, because I was not a minister at the time: however, if you look back at the spread of the virus, it seems to me that the date of January 28 was quite early.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u74	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u75	My question will be simple: who decides? Who decides how to manage the mask stock in France? Who ensures that it is sufficient to prevent a major health disaster? Since 2013 and the report of the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security, the doctrine seems simple. The State manages the surgical or anti-projection masks necessary to protect all citizens in the event of a health risk, while it is up to each employer to build up stocks of FFP2 masks to protect its staff. Since, in theory, the roles seem to be determined, why did we witness such chaos at the beginning of this epidemic? No one was prepared for such a health disaster, I agree. But, since 2016, after the disappearance of the EPRUS, Public Health France has a mission to prevent health risks. As such, it manages, on behalf of the State, the stocks of products necessary for the protection of the population in the face of serious health threats, including the famous surgical masks. However, preventing health risks means spending money on protective equipment that we hope never have to use. Minister, who decided that between 2017 and 2020, these expenditures would not be made and that the stocks would therefore not be replenished? The lack of anticipation of the state in terms of masks has, alas, highlighted the fiscal vision of health that has prevailed for years in France. Moreover, in March, the shortage of masks led the state, local authorities and private companies to carry out numerous orders in haste and without real coordination. In order to draw the consequences of the last few months, Mr. Minister, could you please explain to us the distribution of the respective roles of the State, Public Health France, local authorities and companies in the management of the stock of surgical masks?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u76	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u77	You stressed it, Public Health France, which was created on 1 May 2016 by merging the INVS – Institut national de vue sanitaire –, the INPES – Institut national de prévention et d'éducation pour la santé – and the EPRUS, is responsible for the management of the mask stock and the pilotage, in collaboration with the Directorate-General for Health. It is true that a specific structure was previously devoted to the management of health crises. Perhaps the need for an ad hoc structure will emerge from our discussions. As I have already said, I will not comment further on the management of masks by my predecessors. A commission of inquiry is scheduled to begin its work next week. With regard to the crisis cell which was activated on 4 March, it was entrusted, together with Santé publique France, with the task of researching and developing the sources of supply of masks, making the necessary purchases and securing their repatriation to France when acquired abroad, defining and installing the logistics and distribution channels and meeting the needs of masks expressed by all the actors of the health system. This cell does not replace Santé publique France, it has come to support, in particular for requisitions. Nobody says logistics management has been perfect. Perhaps we should or could have done better. We are told that we were not prepared: but was the world prepared for two out of three human beings to be confined for weeks, to a complete halt in economic, social, democratic and family life? There are things to which, alas, we are not prepared. Let us make sure that we do so if new pandemics are to take place; Let us learn together from our mistakes and from what has been done with varying degrees of success. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Sophie Auconie also applauds]] In any case, I thank those who have worked in the crisis cell. Some were employed by ministries, but many came from prefectures, hospitals and businesses to assist in an epidemic period. They worked night and day, in duration and for many of them as volunteers. I'd rather say hi. It's one of the beautiful pictures I keep.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u78	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u79	Never again, ever more of a shortage of masks for our caregivers and our fellow citizens when an epidemic strikes our country. Never again, ever again, caregivers who have to use outdated masks, partially ineffective to protect themselves and their patients from cross-contamination. Never again, no more shortages organized by the decision to abandon central stocks under the responsibility of the state in anticipation of a possible epidemic. Never again the health disarmament of France obliges us to confine the country, prelude to a terrible social crisis. Never again, ever again the call to solidarity for lack of better, never again the scraping of drawer bottoms to give masks to caregivers faced with the shortage. Never again do workers sent without protection turn the economy around. Never again are the voluntary seamstresses who spontaneously grapple with the failing organisation of the state to provide the caregivers with minimum protections. Never again does the machining of thousands of masks without this work being paid, in disregard of the professional qualifications and working time required. Never again 40 million masks made in France urgently and which today do not find takers, for lack of planning by the state of their production and distribution. The risks of a new pandemic due to deforestation and the destruction of biodiversity are real. What do you intend to do to rebuild a strategic state stock? Do you intend to pay the French companies who made the masks at your request? How can we never live that thing again?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u80	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u81	I would not like to answer your question, since you have referred to both biodiversity and global warming as well as masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u82	I don't think you listened very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u83	Yes, I'd rather be sure I understood your question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u84	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u85	Most scientists agree that deforestation and global warming are one of the causes of coronavirus. Animals, deprived of their natural habitat, come closer to inhabited areas and come into contact with humans, increasing the risk of contamination and new pandemics. In front of this one, what do you intend to do to reconstruct a stock of masks? What will be your attitude towards companies that have made masks? Will you buy their production to save jobs and businesses?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u86	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u87	I have seized your question. As for the link between deforestation and the coronavirus epidemic, I can't answer you. Some major pandemics, caused by viruses resulting from mutations in the animal model, occurred before global warming. I don't know if this epidemic, or a future, can be linked to it – it's possible. Some health impacts are also linked to attempts to combat climate change: for example, the re-emergence of tiger mosquitoes and mosquitoes that transmit dengue, West Nile or Chikungunya on the European continent is certainly the result of global warming, but the invasion of mosquitoes in large cities is also due to the vegetation of the latter and the restoration of wetlands. The externalities of public policy are not always where we imagine it, but it doesn't matter – I'm digressing, but you too. As for the stock of masks, we must jointly define our goal for the future. With regard to the French companies that I thank for their mobilisation, today we buy masks from them. Until when will we do it and in what proportion? The President of the Republic wanted us to be self-sufficient and self-sufficient by the end of the year to avoid having to order masks in China or elsewhere. Good. Let's do it for other materials too – I'm sure you approve of such an approach. Let's take a step back. We didn't get out of the epidemic completely, we didn't use all the masks we bought. It will be time to take stock of this. I once again greet our companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u88	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u89	In the absence of advance notice, stock-building was carried out in an urgent manner. The French companies that had been ordered to engage in the production of masks at the height of the crisis are already struggling to find buyers. They have been more than 400 patenting masks and investing to meet the demand of our fellow citizens. However, whole stocks of consumer fabric masks, manufactured in French factories, are not sold because demand does not follow. Why? Because the French would be more confident or prefer to use single-use surgical masks from Asia? This poses two problems. The first is the government's sense of abandonment of textile companies. We understand them when we know that the state was still ordering 10 million cloth masks in Vietnam a few weeks ago, not to mention the 2 billion masks ordered from China in recent weeks, according to Public Health France. It was not, however, for lack of inventiveness. In my constituency in Cachan, Chantelle has, in a few weeks, managed to completely change its production process from bras to masks. The second problem is that the massive sale of surgical masks imported from Asia results in a new source of pollution. They are now littering the sidewalks, filling the cans and being thrown at random in the trash; It's dramatic. As well as a sanitary towel or plastic bag, a surgical mask puts 450 years of disaggregation in nature, according to the association of defense, education and information of the consumer. And, of course, they're not recyclable. It is, you will agree, a very funny way to enter the next world. So my question is: what are you going to do, Minister, to put an end to this incomprehensible situation in both economic and ecological terms?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u90	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u91	About a month ago, shortly before May 11, as we started talking about lifting confinement, I had answered a question about whether France would have enough general public masks and surgical masks to protect everyone. A month later, I am now asked if there is an overproduction of masks and what we do with used masks. I am pleased to note that we have shifted from lack to potential overabundance. Like you, Madam Member, I am French and I know that there is a permanent and perpetual level of demand that makes us rarely in the right tone. Be aware, however, that the state has ordered almost all masks in production for caregivers until the end of the year, and that the state has also placed orders on most of the general public masks that have been produced so far. Note also that France is the only country to have introduced, for washable and reusable masks, a filtration standard almost equivalent to that of surgical masks. Therefore, I have no doubt that French production, if it no longer finds a national licensee after a time and a certain amount of production, will be able to find buyers abroad, where the epidemic strikes hard. And I can tell you that I would have loved to be able to buy a country an overproduction of protective masks for the general public. So before we say that we have too many masks or that we won't know what to do with them, I wait to see and be careful. As for the pollution caused by masks, you're right, there's a problem. We see too much on the street and there is a recycling problem. We're working with Secretary of State Brune Poirson. Perhaps a parliamentary mission is needed to try to identify ways of making progress on this important issue, which I thank you for raising.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u92	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u93	My question is very similar to the one asked by Albane Gaillot. Wearing a mask has become an increasingly frequent gesture, and it's happy. This is part of the barrier actions that have become familiar to a large part of the population. However, the wear of the fabric mask is not yet the majority, whereas this device, reduced to daily use, is less expensive – on average 30 cents of euros –, more environmentally friendly, because the fabric can be recycled, and does not pose this pollution problem that becomes dominant for disposable masks – Thierry Benoit and I have already asked you on this issue. The fabric mask is also comfortable, which is not negligible when worn for several hours. In response to the urgency and demand of the Government, but also in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility at the beginning of the epidemic, French companies have made a considerable effort to quickly produce quality masks, adapting their production systems. Some have completely redeployed their production lines and, in record time, designed very efficient models. This rapid and massive conversion was a success, so much so that today their stocks are increasing, and they have difficulty selling them. The question now is: why this stock? Because the disposable reassures, because it is easy and because it has become a mode of consumption. This is how a pharmacy I know well sold 10,000 disposable masks, against only 550 washable masks. This difference makes us reflect on how we consume, and perhaps also on how we communicate. Pannier-Runacher said this weekend: "We have a mission, the aim of which is to convince large buyers to switch from a single-use mask to a reusable washable textile mask and to explain that it is personal protective equipment. And the Secretary of State has suggested that businesses and communities order more reusable washable textile masks to equip their personnel on the model of other personal protective equipment. Perhaps we could do that in the National Assembly. Perhaps we could also accompany this gesture with a temporary tax incentive. Perhaps, minister, we could suggest that doctors prescribe these washable masks for the treatment of chronic diseases and for vulnerable people. Perhaps, at last, you intend to add them to national stocks in the event of a future epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u94	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u95	You confirm, Mrs.Firmin Le Bodo, that we are working, as you call it, on the provision of general public masks for people at risk of medical or chronic diseases. You also confirm the hypothesis of being able to store these consumer masks for future use. In this regard, I would like to remind you that we deplore thousands of deaths every year because of the flu. This has nothing to do with the coronavirus and I do not mix or compare the two: if there had not been confinement, I can assure you that the situation would have been even more dramatic. However, influenza can, in some years, kill a very large number of people. But to protect ourselves from influenza, perhaps we will have elements that will prompt us to think that, if we change our habits, by washing our hands and applying the barrier gestures, or even, if we are a fragile or unvaccinated person – it is a pity that the influenza vaccine we have is not used any more – that the wearing of the mask might be interesting. I therefore believe that we will have other opportunities to use these masks. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, as well as on some benches of the MODEM group]] I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the decisive action taken by two people with regard to these general public masks. The first is the Prime Minister, who has been personally involved from the beginning in the very concept of a washable mask intended for the general public. You would be surprised to see the very fine granularity in which he entered to be able to defend this project. And the second is Agnes Pannier-Runacher, Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy, who has multiplied the steps, meetings and mobilizations of companies, in France and abroad, to be able not only to determine AFNOR standards in record time, but also to achieve that after a month we wonder if we are not in a situation of overproduction of masks. It is a collective effort that has been carried out in this field; It's not mine, and I'd like to say hello to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u96	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u97	We are, as you know, in a company at risk. This is a major issue of civil security for all our citizens. However, it is not only a question of scale and reference to the health crisis. In Rouen, in September 2019, during the Lubrizol disaster, from the first few minutes of the fire, at two hours forty-eight in the morning, there is uncertainty as to the toxicity of the ignited products. I quote the Departmental Director of Public Health, following the Senate Committee of Inquiry: " Twenty-five NRBC masks were available locally at the police station and were, for some, distributed to public servants in relief before eight o'clock. At approximately 8:30 a.m., firefighters were asked to provide FFP2 paper masks for police officers who arrived, for 100 of them, after 11 o'clock, and then a second batch of 500 for the weekend and subsequent days. » All this to tell you, Minister, that the issue of masks also arises in the face of an industrial or natural disaster, against which the reactivity to protect both front-line actors and the entire population concerned is crucial, especially in the face of uncertainty of risk. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group, as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] Have you not had enough alerts and feedback to seriously and in detail review all types of masks in any crisis situation? In this regard, I would not find it out of the question – and we recommend it –, whatever the price, to find as many masks available in the French as in toilet paper, in the context of a public policy of civil protection of general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u98	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u99	Why not, Congressman Wulfranc? Clearly, there was a time when it was considered that the State alone was not in a position to store protective masks and that employers of staff most at risk of exposure to inhalable particles should be responsible for storing them. I'm not sure it was a great success. And if we were now to rely on the fact that citizens are equipping themselves with protective equipment, I am not sure whether this would be a great success either. I know you believe in the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u100	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u101	I too, as I believe we need sufficient stock, fast and efficient distribution channels, and decentralized logistics. It seems to me that this would be a good basis for preparing the country in the face of industrial and health risks, such as those you are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u102	And the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u103	Let's start with this. As for equipping citizens with masks and equipment to their homes, I am open to any proposal, but I believe that it would be more realistic to proceed with a national stock, easy distribution channels, efficient logistics and decentralized centres for storing essential products.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u104	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u105	As early as March 15th, I traded my M.P. suit for the quilter-skinner suit. In times of war, it seemed to me essential to be at the front, on the ground. In my constituency, the Malterre establishments, the only producers of fabric surviving from the local textile industry, have committed themselves to producing masks whose filtration and permeability performance we have validated by the DGA – Directorate General of Armaments. I still see his leaders say to me: "We have machinery, fabric, know-how and it seems natural to us to take advantage of this country and to help the medical and social sector of the region first and foremost. It is dozens of volunteers who have mobilized, ordinary people who have achieved extraordinary things. More than 150,000 masks were donated and delivered free of charge between 15 March and 15 April to the medical and social sector. Today, this company is capable of knitting and making 400,000 consumer masks per month, washable twenty times, at competitive prices. In an emergency, French companies, and in particular the smaller ones, were able to adapt quickly by reorienting their production systems. Some have even decided to invest in the duration, by recruiting staff, or buying machines. The Government has pledged to sign contracts with four large French companies in the near future. What about the smallest of them in our rural areas? They need more visibility than ever, they question the sustainability of this activity, and they believe that long-term production will depend on public procurement. While a few weeks ago France lacked masks, now it produces too many masks. Orders collapse when they are not cancelled in the face of low-cost import competition. What does the Government intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u106	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u107	Thank you, honourable Member, for your work as a parliamentarian. It is important and it is also thanks to the commitment of local and national elected officials, or even associations, in their different territories, that we have been able to cope with this epidemic wave. There are no small shares, there are only beautiful shares. It is also these images that we can remember from these past weeks. You're asking me about small businesses that produce masks. Also to this question, Agnès Pannier-Runacher is very sensitive, just as she is sensitive to all the factories that have managed to reorient their production to make this tool of national interest that is the mask. The Secretary of State and Bercy are committed to supporting companies, whatever they may be, in their retraining and in the reorganization of their production lines. This support should take place over the long term and we will need a strategy for the deployment, use and possible export of these public masks, which are standard, qualitative and can be used by many other countries than ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u108	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u109	In order to debate the management of masks fairly, I think it is important to remember a few episodes. In 2008, the state bought too many masks; We're yelling at the scandal. If you keep masks for nothing, it costs too much and you're still yelling at the scandal. In 2011, the Government allocated the stock and decided that private and public employers, such as hospitals and emergency services, would themselves be responsible for the safety equipment of their personnel, including the tactical mask stock. Who remembers that? No one. Destroy obsolete and mouldy masks; Again, it's a scandal. Controversy is easy but sterile. What is surprising about the fact that the strategic choices of the state are adapting as scientific knowledge shifts or progresses on a previously unknown virus? While France entered the health crisis with a very low stock, it rapidly increased its import and manufacturing capacity. The effort of the state has been considerable, and you have spared no effort, Minister, to ensure that the caregivers have masks, and that the same applies to all French people today. When we know the real figures, we will see in the end that, among the countries of the world, France did not get away so badly. Our companies have been involved in the national effort. We have easy access today to high quality fabric masks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u110	Three months later! It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u111	... labeled AFNOR and "made in France". Our fellow citizens were very afraid of not having a mask on May 11. Today, many forget that masking is an indispensable barrier in public places when physical distancing is not possible. We have made a lot of sacrifices to stop the epidemic. As deconfinitely rhymes more and more with relaxation, do you not think, minister, that a new awareness campaign should be carried out on the usefulness of the mask?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u112	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u113	Thank you for your question, Mrs Brulebois. I went to Val-d'Oise this morning to recall that the epidemic was not over and that we had to continue to protect ourselves and to apply the barrier gestures, on the one hand, to test and isolate the patients. You never do enough pedagogy, or, rather, you never do too much. You mentioned wearing the mask as a general population. It is true that the French and Europeans are not used to wearing a mask to protect themselves from diseases or pandemics. This is not part of culture, whereas this is the case in several Asian countries, because these have been severely affected in recent years by epidemics which have spared Europe little or no. Their population has acquired the reflex to protect the other – more than yourself – by wearing a mask. In France, until recently, a person wearing a mask in the street was considered to be a sick person who had to flee rather than a person who protected others. I said that three months ago at the beginning of the epidemic. The wearing of the mask is something new that requires a little learning. Not that we can't do it, but it's an effort to do it, collectively. As early as February, during the press conferences, I indicated that the wearing of the mask as a general population was considered to have a protective effect against epidemics as long as the mask was worn permanently and under good conditions by at least 60 per cent of the population. I do not know whether 60% of the French population is wearing a mask in constant and good conditions; I'm not sure. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You are right, you must continue to do pedagogy and explain why it is important to wear a mask. We must not relax our efforts in order to be able to defeat the virus for good.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u114	Mr. Pierre Vatin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u115	Three months ago, we were running out of masks. Since 2017 or before – we no longer know – masks have been destroyed without ordering new masks to replace them. Today, French companies that manufacture fabric masks are in the red and may be on the brink of the balance sheet tomorrow. How do you intend to help these companies? How do you intend to encourage those who need masks, whether they be businesses or the state itself, to promote "made in France" or simply to buy French? In this regard, will the government's website for the purchase of masks and protective products, known as stopcovid19.fr, soon guarantee that the equipment purchased is made in France? Regrettably, I fear that the necessary health independence of our country in the event of an epidemic will remain a pious wish or a myth and that tomorrow our compatriots will be victims of a new epidemic in which our country will still not be prepared; It won't be if nothing is done to gain our health independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u116	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u117	Health independence, I don't know... It's a goal that I want just as much as you do. The President of the Republic is committed to achieving self-sufficiency in masks by the end of the year. Given the number of masks we're producing, I think we'll make it. In fact, many of you have just noted that we may be producing too many masks, in any case more masks than we are able to buy or use. Remember – this is not a criticism on my part – I predicted that we would move rather quickly from "we lack masks" to "there are too many". [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Health autonomy also means, and above all, being able to produce, at least at European level, medicinal products of major therapeutic interest to cope with a crisis. We lack, as we can see, anesthetic and reanimatory medicines – I had a discussion earlier about Propofol with the president of the Socialist and related group, who is no longer represented in the Chamber, although he asked for this debate on masks... When consumption explodes by 2000 %, it is more reassuring to have domestic production, so that it can be used in hospitals and open operating blocks in quantity. So this is a major issue. Nevertheless, I repeat, we should reason at European level – I do not know what your European convictions are, my convictions are strong. We would come to our ends faster, more certainly, and probably more intelligently.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u118	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u119	The management of the mask stock has been at the heart of discussions since the beginning of the covid-19 epidemic. On many occasions, the question of the difficulties France had in providing masks, if only to the healthcare staff, was raised. Behind this question is the question of responsibilities. From 2007 to 2016, as we know, EPRUS was responsible for the management of strategic health stocks. Before it was abolished, Parliament and the Court of Auditors had drawn up a positive assessment of its management of the stocks and a semi-tablished balance sheet of its management of the health reserve. In 2016, while approving the abolition of the EPRUS, Parliament had made both financial and functional recommendations, so that the new operator, the National Public Health Agency, better known as Public Health France, would ensure a satisfactory public response in the event of a health crisis. Firstly, it had called for the maintenance of the resources dedicated to the former EPRUS, so that the tasks for which it was responsible would continue to be properly ensured, secondly, the granting of a margin of autonomy to the new structure, so that it would not be drowned in the National Public Health Agency, a large operator of 500 people. The problem of stock management, especially masks, has not been clearly solved, and the same questions remain since the beginning of 2020: has the public health operator France ensured an effective management of strategic stocks over the last three years? And today we need to ask a key question: have the recommendations made been followed up? Has Parliament been listened to or ignored?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u121	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u122	Thank you for your question, Mrs Louwagie, as well as for the report you produced during the Spring of the Evaluation, which deals with the issue of the EPRUS. You are asking a real question: should we distinguish once again a facility specifically responsible for crisis management, alongside a public health institution that deals with policies, which are also very important, for prevention and public information? After a crisis like the one we are experiencing, I don't see us changing anything. Since change is in any case indispensable in this type of situation, let us make sure that it goes in the right direction: without destroying or condemning, let us improve what can be improved. I would like to draw your attention to one point, Mrs Louwagie, although I know that you know the file on your fingertips: in May 2016, when the EPRUS was integrated into the ANSP, there were already enough FFP2 masks in our country. In recent years, there has been no policy of massive purchase of surgical masks, and masks perish quietly in warehouses... To put it very clearly, I do not believe that the shift from EPRUS to Public Health France is responsible for the situation. In this regard, a permanent watch by several actors, including the Parliament, should be used, which should be able to hold annual accounts on the strategic equipment available. Jean-Pierre Door has produced very interesting reports on the issue. It is important that we report to Parliament – I tell you this, although a member of the Government – because such a permanent watch may avoid a certain amount of ronron in the management of the material in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u123	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u124	Allow me to regret, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that this debate, which you have asked for, does not focus more broadly on the period from 2012 to 2020, the year 2012 marking the beginning of the decline in mask stocks and, no doubt by chance, the arrival in power of the socialist majority. We can also regret that the great foresight displayed today by the opposition did not manifest itself before the crisis occurred. So the string is a little big... But let us come out of sterile polemics, and assume our responsibility: in view of the test we have been through, we must admit that mistakes were made between 2007 and 2020, and that we have finally disposed of a stock of masks insufficient to deal with the epidemic. From now on, our responsibility is to worry about the means used to anticipate future crises. The volume and type of masks to be stored should be questioned. Should we consider a stock of reusable tissue masks for the population, in addition to the stocks of FFP2 masks for caregivers? The relationship between stock and supply should also be questioned. Much has been said about relocating the production of masks, but isn't the solution simply found in storage?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u125	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u126	Thank you for your question, Mr. Lainé. I have already answered several questions this evening concerning strategic stocks, the number of masks we would need in each category – FFP masks2, surgical masks, washable and recyclable masks –, their storage and logistics management, decentralization in this area... In any case, it shows that you are asking yourself these same questions on all benches. You are telling us, and that is a good thing, because I will need you, we will need you to work collectively and intelligently on the renovation of our system of monitoring and action in the event of a health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u127	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u128	In May 2019, the High Council of Public Health concluded, in a report on mask stocks, that France would need 1 billion masks in the event of a pandemic. Why didn't anyone care about this visionary conclusion? Why did no one act accordingly in the months that followed? On three occasions, on 21, 22 and 24 January 2020, Professor Jérôme Salomon, Director General of Health, had advised the wearing of the mask in order to reduce the contagious risk. Between the 24th and the 29th of February, Minister, you repeatedly stated that wearing the mask was not useful for those who were not ill. Did you know at the time that wearing the mask could slow down the contagion? If this was not the case, where do you think the malfunction is in the chain that led to such a decision? We have learned that France produces 3.5 million of the 40 million surgical masks and FFP2 that it needs a week and that it imports the rest. Until the end of March, mask stocks were destroyed. I understand that these are outdated masks, minister, but why haven't the stocks been renewed? In its thick report, the Assembly's fact-finding mission on the impact, management and consequences of the crisis mentions, on pages 24, "the lack of strategic stocks of protective equipment, including masks" and, on page 25, "the broader problem of our dependence on the outside for the supply of essential products". What steps have you taken, Minister, to ensure France's strategic autonomy in the event of a health and viral crisis in the future? On March 18, 2020, Professor Jean-François Delfraissy, president of the scientific council covid -19, acknowledged that the government had adopted a default strategy, due to the shortage of masks and tests. Minister, I understand that it was necessary to reserve the masks as a priority for the health care staff and that the shortage prevented providing them to the entire population, but why didn't you just tell the French? Why did you first believe that wearing the mask was useless for those who were not sick, especially since you were unable to know who was sick or not, instead of explaining transparently that there was not enough for everyone?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u129	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u130	I indicated very early on the number of masks that we had, and I had no interest, either personal or collective, in declaring that wearing the mask as a general population was not indispensable, since I had recognized that we would not have enough masks in case it was deemed necessary. I relied on the recommendations of the Director General of Health, those of the High Council for Public Health and those of the World Health Organization. She now advises on wearing the mask as a general population under certain conditions, but I recall that she amended her recommendations three days ago, on June 5, so well after us. There was no will to avoid anything to hide misery. Honestly, I would have said that, especially since I had the advantage of taking up my duties after the crisis began. In addition, one European country, Denmark, does not, to date, recommend wearing the mask as a general population. He even advised against it, and financed a study to determine whether it was truly protective or whether it encouraged, as the WHO feared until three days ago, to reduce physical distances, in which case it would have little impact on the epidemic. It's good to keep your mind open. Such reversals flourish in the history of contemporary medicine, of medicine in general, where one rushes, thinking well done, on certain beliefs before having to correct them when they have proved false or misunderstood. Medicine has always progressed this way. I could tell you – that would reconcile us – all the experiments to which Semmelweiss, the first to understand the importance of hand washing, had to perform before realizing that, if women in diapers died of puerperal fever in hospitals when this did not happen in the good sisters, it was because they had been given birth by interns who had not washed their hands after handling cadaveric matter. The history of epidemiology is made up of such gropings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u131	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u132	The next item is the debate on the evaluation of public policies on access to abortion. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear from the speakers of the groups and then from the Government, before the Government answers your questions. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u133	At the request of the GDR Group, we are evaluating the public policies on access to IVG, carried out in particular during the serious health crisis that we are going through. As we see too often, times of crisis are unfortunately conducive to the regression of women's rights. In recent weeks, all proposals for new rights in favour of women have been at the worst swept away by a turn of hands, the best emptied of their substance. Improving the working conditions of housekeepers? This is not the time. Extending the time frame for IVG? Refusal of the Senate. Open the LDC to all women? Repelled to the Greek calends. The health situation has severely restricted access to abortion. There are many reasons for the significant decrease in the number of abortions during confinement: closure of reception facilities; fear of leaving home; profusion of false information disseminated by pro-life sites. In addition, isolation increases the feeling of guilt, which is still tenfold when it comes to mobilizing caregivers for an act that is wrongly considered to be non-emergency in the midst of a health crisis. Even today, despite the field work of many professionals, the IVG remains a taboo. The confinement highlighted once again the need for discretion for this medical act. Usually work and school are the two reasons women use to be able to have an abortion in complete discretion. The absence of these two activities has put at risk their decision, their choice, forcing them to leave the legal framework of the twelve weeks of pregnancy. The figures are without concession: the number on the family schedule shows an 184% increase in requests for interruptions beyond 12 weeks. Women who had exceeded that deadline had not been able to abort abroad as a result of the closure of the borders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u134	That's right! I'll talk about it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u135	As with every crisis, it is the most precarious who pay the heaviest price. Lawyer Gisèle Halimi already said during Bobigny's trial: it is always the same class that is struck, that of poor women, economically and socially vulnerable, this class of people without money and relationships. The request of associations and many health professionals is simple: increase the abortion time from 12 weeks to 14 weeks of pregnancy during the state of emergency and for the next three months. Many requests for abortion after the legal deadline of 12 weeks of pregnancy are also made by women who are victims of violence, who often find themselves in inextricable marital or administrative situations. The extension of this period is based on the abortion technique used: at twelve or fourteen weeks of pregnancy, it is still possible to carry out an abortion by aspiration. The delay of three months after the state of emergency is justified by the state of hospital services after the crisis. Caregivers are out of breath. We don't know if they'll have to face a second wave, but we can be sure that in any case they'll need to blow, and that's normal. A significant decrease in hospital activity will certainly be observed this summer, to the detriment, in the first place, of women wishing to abort since the waiting times for an appointment will be longer. Without this emergency measure, limited in time, some doctors will find themselves in an illegal situation to deal with this distress. The major risk is that women may have abortions alone. This return to the 1970s raises a major health issue. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, when a woman chooses to have an abortion, nothing can stop her from going to the end. This right conquered from a high struggle was already weakened before the crisis because of the weakening of public services. The health crisis has highlighted the fragility of this immense conquest of women. Abortion is an urgent medical intervention. The challenge to abortion is no less than the challenge to women's right to dispose of their bodies. The sexual and reproductive rights of women should be considered as human rights. Knowing the fragility of these rights, we have repeatedly called for the constitutionalization of the right to abortion, but this proposal has remained a dead letter. That is why, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the statutory deadline for abortion must be increased from 12 weeks to 14 weeks of pregnancy. (Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u136	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u137	Last year, invited by the Delegation for Women's Rights and by our President Richard Ferrand, Agnès Varda invited us, on the occasion of the screening of his film One sings, the other does not, to live a happy femininity. But, without freedom of choice, and especially the freedom to be a mother or not, how can we be happy? The debate in which we are participating this evening is part of a history of struggles, struggles and rights, because, while abortion is an intimate and private act, the right to dispose of it is a societal and political issue that we must preserve. Voluntary termination of pregnancy is a right totem for women whose effectiveness says something about our society. That is why we have continuously strengthened it since 1975 by facilitating access to it everywhere. The right to abortion is primarily a matter of choice: the choice of whether or not to continue a pregnancy, the choice of a place and the choice of a method, throughout our territory. This freedom of choice is guaranteed by law, and no one can question it. Women's rights cannot depend on the social or health conditions in which we live. That is why it is up to the legislator to ensure its effectiveness at all times, whether it is a health crisis or not. The period of confinement that we have just experienced has resulted in an unprecedented increase in the difficulty of accessing certain rights, including the right to abortion. Indeed, since March, the Government has been seized of significant upsurges in the suffering and feeling of loneliness of many women facing difficulties in accessing abortion. The lines of listening and information, as well as the associations, have been heavily solicited and many parliamentarians, like the members of the Delegation for Women's Rights, which I chair, have mobilized to relay the urgency of the situation. In response to these alerts, the Government has taken a series of measures that I would like to welcome here, in particular the facilitation of the use of teleconsultation for drug abortion, as well as the increase from seven to nine weeks of amenorrhea in the time taken to complete it out of hospital, which were allowed by the reactivity of health professionals who, from the beginning of confinement, actively reorganized the care of women in order to be able to respond to all requests as soon as possible. The Delegation for Women's Rights has embarked on an analytical approach that allows us today to ask for the sustainability of the emergency devices for the drug abortion, but also for a relaxation of the conditions of use of the IMG in order to respond to the increase in requests for IVG out of time. Moreover, the numerous hearings conducted as part of the information mission on access to the IVG, conducted by our colleagues Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Cécile Muschotti, underline the need to increase the number of professionals able to make this gesture. That is why I am in favour of midwives who wish to do so being able to do so, as I am in favour of removing the double conscience clause, which stigmatizes the abortion, which could be done at the second reading of the bioethics bill. As elected representatives of the nation, my dear colleagues, we are all here and all the heirs of Marie-Claire, Gisèle, Simone, Agnes, Suzanne and Apple, and of all those who led on his benches, for 45 years, a fight that allowed to enrich and adapt the original text, but also to defend it against constant attacks. It is up to us to guarantee every woman a happy femininity, and the possibility of being "in turn the place of passage of the generations", as Annie Ernaux so rightly writes in her book L'Événement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u138	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u139	The issue of abortion is a sensitive subject that has been working for a very long time in all societies. It refers in fact to intimate choices, to sometimes difficult personal situations that can only encourage us to be cautious in our remarks, because we risk hurting those who hear us. It is also for this reason that I will speak in my personal capacity here, as will my colleagues Maxime Minot and Sébastien Leclerc. It is also a sensitive subject, because it is necessary to reconcile two fundamental principles that can contradict each other: the freedom of women on the one hand, and the protection of human life on the other. Where article 2 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights guarantees women's freedom, article 16 of the Civil Code, as contained in article L. 2211-1 of the Public Health Code, guarantees respect for the human being from the beginning of his life. In this context, the articulation between these two principles is unfortunately difficult. When it happens that priority is given to one of the two principles, the other very quickly remembers our memory. The debate proposed this evening by our colleagues in the GDR Group concerns the evaluation of public policies on access to abortion. This exercise is welcome in that it allows us to discuss together what we might call the blind corners of the debate on abortion, far from the reducing slogans. In this debate, one figure should ask you: with more than 200,000 abortions performed each year, France has one of the highest rates. No one here can rejoice. We all remember Simone Veil's remarks here in November 1974: "No woman uses gaîte de coeur in abortion. Just listen to women: it is always a tragedy and it will always remain a tragedy. » This figure should encourage us to finally pursue a real policy of prevention of abortion. This would respond to a strong demand from our fellow citizens. According to a survey conducted a few months ago by the FIFG, 72% of French people believe that society should help women more to avoid the use of abortion. When is a policy of prevention worthy of that name? The evaluation exercise proposed by our colleagues in the GDR Group also allows us to question one of the two principles that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech: that of women's freedom, and the reality of this freedom. It is all too often found that this freedom is conceived only as freedom to abort. In doing so, one forgets that freedom to be effective cannot be, must not be partial. What's the point of the freedom to do if I don't have the freedom not to do it? Freedom for a woman is also the freedom not to have an abortion, and this freedom not to have an abortion must also be protected. We all know young women who are forced to an abortion that they did not want: forced by threats, sometimes accompanied by violence, of a companion who does not assume the prospect of having a child; forced under the pressure of a family that retreats from the consequences of a pregnancy. It is sometimes her professional environment that exerts pressure on her for purely economic interests. In recent years, however, various measures protecting women's freedom from these pressures have been called into question. The time limit for reflection has thus been removed. The law of March 2017 extended the offence of obstruction to the IVG. In fact, the Constitutional Council has made reservations to this text in order to guarantee the freedom of expression and the freedom of information it calls into question. This debate must lead us to reflect on what we are doing to protect women's freedom, their full freedom, to protect them in our law, but also in our society, to accompany those who are under pressure from their people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u140	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u141	I thank the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for putting in the debate the so delicate issue of access to abortion. "Never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will be enough to challenge women's rights. These rights are never acquired. You'll have to stay vigilant for the rest of your life. I recalled these words of Simone de Beauvoir here, a little over a year ago, when I denounced the unacceptable blackmail of the national union of gynaecologists and obstetricians of France, which called on its members to "make scandal and be ready to stop the practice of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy", using this threat to put pressure on the Government in a whole other field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u142	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u143	Forty-five years after the Veil law, the attacks aimed at calling the IVG into question persist in France, Europe and the world, and the warning of Simone de Beauvoir unfortunately still sounds as fair. The crisis in the country is the last example. Containment has led to an explosion of domestic violence and inequality has increased. This has affected access to abortion, as women who are victims of violence are also most vulnerable to late diagnosis. In addition, confinement has forced family planning centres to close their doors and minimize their operation, in order to avoid contamination of teams and patients. Finally, the health crisis put the health system under very high stress: many hospital activities had to be deprogrammed and care had to be postponed in order to concentrate the efforts of the teams and structures on the patients of the covid-19. In this context, women have experienced increased difficulties in using GVI: the number of such acts at the hospital has fallen, even though requests for out-of-time GVI have exploded by almost 185 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u144	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u145	So far, and even if we may regret it, some women requesting an out-of-time GVI were sent abroad – mainly to the Netherlands and Spain. With the closing of borders, the spectre of clandestine abortions did indeed threaten to resurge in France, in the country of Simone Veil, where abortion is a right guaranteed by law. Many health professionals and associations have been alerted to this critical situation, and I welcome the Government's responsiveness to the crisis without delay: for example, it has set up a hotline, facilitated telemedicine and enabled all mandatory consultations, including prescription of contraceptive pills, to be carried out through it. According to the opinion of the High Health Authority, the Minister of Solidarity and Health has also increased from seven to nine weeks of amenorrhea the period during which it is possible to perform a drug abortion outside the hospital. These emergency measures have helped to address this particular context and to guarantee women's freedom of choice. With the breakdown and gradual resumption of hospital activities, the return to normal should restore confidence to women, who should no longer be afraid of being refused abortions. [[Applause on several benches of the LR and GDR groups]] As the urgency has passed, I call for the opening of a collective reflection on this essential subject. We must reaffirm that the choice of a woman to resort to abortion is never an annoyance, and we must guard against any hasty decision. As our colleague Simone Veil has just recalled, on 26 November 1974, stated: "No woman resorts to abortion in her heart. All you have to do is listen to the women. [...]/ It is always a tragedy and it will always remain a tragedy. That is why, while we are fiercely protecting the freedom of choice given to women, we must not in any way trivialise this act or take measures that would run counter to the spirit of Simone Veil's law – I am thinking in particular of an additional extension of IVG's time limits. Instead, we need to focus on prevention, contraceptive education and specific support for young minors – subjects that deserve a calm and constructive debate, with a shared objective: to accompany women as best they can at every stage of their lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u146	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u147	The health crisis and the period of confinement have been a serious obstacle to access to abortion and have led to a clear decline in women's enjoyment of this right – a right that, as we know, is always militant and never quite triumphant. This has been confirmed in a number of foreign countries, such as Poland, where the crisis has served as a pretext, mediocre and shameful, to try to challenge this right. Fortunately, France did not have to undergo such a retrograde relent, but it should be noted that prior to the crisis, access to abortion was not guaranteed uniformly in the national territory, although it was a right recognized for all women. I say this with greater certainty because in 2018, in my constituency, for example, the practice of abortion was prevented for almost nine months at the hospital in Bailleul, with a retired doctor and other practitioners claiming the conscience clause. Shortly after the announcement of the containment, ICG centres alerted the public authorities to a low rate of solicitation, leaving the risk of multiple requests out of time. This low level of recourse is easily explained: fear of contracting the disease, reluctance or even shame to apply for hospitals already under pressure from the epidemic, decrease in the physical reception of family planning and other associations working for women's rights, restrictions on movement, or domestic violence. In a forum on 31 March, more than 100 professionals, supported by many personalities, called for measures to be taken to guarantee women's rights and access to abortion during the crisis. At the end of April, the High Council for Equality between Women and Men was alarmed by this unprecedented situation, which further exacerbated the shortage of doctors practising abortion, and led to a restriction on the right of every woman to dispose of her body. While measures have been taken – such as extending the out-of-health GVI to the seventh week of pregnancy – they are unfortunately still insufficient. Drug GVI is not suitable for all situations, particularly because of the pain it can cause. Even more, the incentive to use this method of abortion is problematic with regard to the freedom of choice of methods – freedom formally recognised by the Code of Public Health. Moreover, this solution leaves unanswered two of the main requests of the above-mentioned forum, namely that of an interim extension of the time limit for recourse to instrumental abortion from twelve to fourteen weeks of pregnancy. The gravity of the situation and the issues underlying the right to abortion – such as the free disposition of their bodies by women, the protection of their physical integrity and, more fundamentally, their right to decide whether to start a family or not – advocate for longer periods of recourse to abortion. We must defend it precisely because the material conditions for the exercise of the right to abortion are restricted. To renounce this prolongation is to renounce this right; To force a woman to take on a motherhood, knowing how it will affect her life, is to trample on our values and rights. Although the Minister of Solidarity and Health has opened the way to abortion on grounds of psychosocial distress, it is not fully satisfactory: indeed, the college to decide must have a specialist in fetal medicine, a condition which is not justified by the reason given and which makes it difficult to meet such a college. I will go even further: this solution does not win my support, because it has the effect of dispossessing the woman from the exclusive exercise of the right to abortion, and of conditioning it to the will of others. This is an unbearable regression. The worst is before us: the explosion of 330% of the reported difficulties in family planning – obstacles in the use of abortion, breaches of the law, violence, exceeding legal deadlines – as well as the 184% increase in requests for abortion out of time, accredit the hypothesis of an increase in unwanted births. A strictly supervised extension of time limits is essential to ensure that women exercise a right that they have been unlawfully deprived of – Laurence Rossignol defended it in the Senate during the consideration of the bill containing various urgent provisions to deal with the consequences of the covid epidemic -19. Together with my colleague Marie-Noëlle Battistel, a member of the information mission on access to the IVG, we also support this request. Last year, the Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men expressed her own support for a reasonable extension of the legal time frame of the abortion, which, in her words, would be "a step forward for women's rights, but also and above all for women's health". (Applause from the SOC and GDR groups, as well as from some of the LaREM groups. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u148	Mrs. Schiappa still wants to do more, but she's not even here tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u149	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u150	The danger of a lack of access to care is constantly present, everywhere in France. This is a flaw in the health system against which the Libertés et territoires group is particularly struggling. The non-use of care increased widely during the forced confinement in the midst of an epidemic of covid-19. Very quickly, a decrease in medical activity was observed in all territories, due to the fear of being contaminated, contaminate others or overload doctors. Fear has been particularly strong for women who face unwanted pregnancy. It is difficult to collect figures establishing the ability to use a voluntary termination of pregnancy; However, there have been many field alerts. Family planning indicated that calls increased by 30 per cent, while calls indicating difficulties in accessing GVI or exceeding deadlines were tripling. On 15 April, the Government announced the extension of the drug abortion period from five to seven weeks of pregnancy, and mandatory medical appointments for such abortion were authorized for teleconsultation. On the other hand, the request to extend from 12 to 14 weeks the time limit for the practice of instrumental abortion was not met, which prevented many women who had found their pregnancy late or had not been able to consult a doctor in time. We deeply regret it. However, the constraints of access to abortion are multiple, whether they are linked to fear or purely material obstacles, especially during times of an epidemic of coronavirus: difficulty in getting an appointment, impossibility of keeping children to go to the meeting, fear of minors that their parents will be informed, fear of women victims of domestic violence. Prior to the crisis, access to abortion was not always easy. Although it has been a right guaranteed by law since 1975, it is still too often challenged and, above all, subject to restrictions that prevent its full exercise. Territorial inequalities in access to care particularly affect women, due to the closure of maternity wards, the shortage of gynaecologists and the complexity of the use of abortion. Between 2007 and 2017, the number of gynaecologists fell by 41%, reaching 1136 doctors; It could even fall to 531 doctors in 2025. This decrease is directly related to the abolition of the medical gynaecology specialty between 1986 and 2003.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u151	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u152	A sad observation must also alert us: budgetary restrictions and the logic of financial profitability have led to the closure of many centres of IVG in recent years. Between 2007 and 2017, seventy centres closed in metropolitan France, abortion being a very unprofitable medical act. It does not give rise to a vocation among doctors, who are little trained in it. In some institutions, it is sometimes impossible to find a doctor to practice GVI, which forces women to travel many kilometres to find a practitioner. In 2018, more than 25% of women had abortions outside their department of residence. In a context where the number of specialists and community-based institutions is decreasing, access to abortion – or simply to accompaniment – is more than limited. We cannot accept that the difficulties of access to the IVG persist – and the crisis of the Covid-19 reminded us of how many of them were. She also revealed the loneliness in which women often find themselves and the suffering they face. More than ever, this crisis must encourage us to improve the support offered to women, but also, and above all, to strengthen prevention and information. Abortion is always a painful moment. It must remain a last resort. Prevention campaigns must be more numerous and better targeted, both for women, who are directly concerned, and for men, who are in fact as much involved. However, in several departments, such as the Haute-Loire or the Rhône, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, family planning is concerned about a reduction in the subsidies allocated to it in recent years, while prevention and support measures are essential. Lack of access to health care raises fears for the health of our citizens throughout the country. No care should be underestimated, no action should be delayed for too long, including when a health crisis threatens our population and our health system. The case of GVI must alert us to the urgency of investing in prevention policies, which are essential for the effectiveness of our health system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u153	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u154	Always, when society loses control of its future, it reaffirms its control over what it can control; and this control always focuses primarily on women's bodies. This did not fail with the crisis of the covid -19: the right to abortion has declined, including in France. The situation before confinement was not brilliant: if the right to abortion has been acquired since 1975, it is still not guaranteed effective access to all women, because they must find a structure capable of practicing an abortion and a doctor who agrees to do so; But there are not so many of them, especially since there is a double clause of consciousness to avoid it. A total of 130 IVG facilities closed between 2001 and 2011 and, over the past 10 years, 8% of the centres have closed. A woman has more difficulty aborting if she lives in rural or peri-urban areas rather than in a large city, if the unwanted pregnancy occurs in summer than in another season. From one region to another, recourse rates vary from simple to double; Nine per cent of abortions are made outside the department of residence, and it sometimes takes more than 100 kilometres to do an abortion, making it all the more complex for young women, women who are victims of domestic violence or those who are monitored daily by their families. It is then necessary to face the gaze of society, including that of practitioners who try to dissuade women from abortion, who mix with their privacy or personal aspirations. Some even have to endure the terrible pressures of the fools of God who go to abortion centres to engage in illegal street prayers and try to prevent women from using their bodies freely. During confinement, the situation worsened. Many women have exceeded the legal deadline for abortion despite the two-week prolongation for a drug-treated GVI. Terrible testimonies have been published in the press. It was this thirty-year-old who swore that he would never have a child; when she discovers her pregnancy, at the beginning of confinement, she will consult a gynaecologist for an IVG; The latter discourages her and sends her back by advising her to think. She goes home, cries every day. "And when she ends up coming to see us, it's too late. » It is that of this young woman who wanted to have a child and who began by rejoicering at the news; But with the pregnancy comes the blows from his spouse. She therefore decides to leave him and to abort – but they are locked up together. "On her arrival at our home, she discovers that she has exceeded the term. » This is the testimony of people who were received at the women's house in Saint-Denis. There are also minors who have no excuse to leave their homes during confinement and who are unable to tell their families, or anyone else, and who allow the legal deadline to pass. The closure of borders does not even allow those who would have the means to go to Belgium or Spain to perform an abortion. Then remains the terrible choice between keeping an undesired child, with all the consequences that it will have on his life and that of the child, or resorting to clandestine abortion. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on many benches of the GDR group]] If we do nothing, we prepare the return of angel-makers, with their procession of misfortunes, deaths, sterilised for life, traumatized, unthinkable sufferings that were women's before the authorization of abortion. In the face of this, we must guarantee the effectiveness of the right to abortion and adapt the deadlines to the period of confinement, because it prevented women from resorting to it. It is necessary to increase the time limit from 12 to 14 weeks to practice an abortion and, more generally, to remove the double awareness clause of health professionals. There is a need for a moratorium on the closure of GVI centres and the development of community supply. Significant resources must be allocated for the ICG activity, while ensuring access to premises. The group La France insoumée had proposed to include the right to abortion in the Constitution so that no crisis could call it into question. These measures are essential to guarantee women the free disposition of their bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u155	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u156	It was seventy years ago: "Never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will be enough to challenge women's rights. For seventy years, these words of Simone de Beauvoir have often been cited. Yet they have never made as much sense as they do today, as France is experiencing an unprecedented health crisis. Health care professionals called the alarm several months ago, worrying about the harmful effect of the health crisis on access to abortion and on the increase in unwanted pregnancies. The follow-up made them right. The national "Sexualities, Contraception, IVG" number of the family planning received 184% additional requests compared to the same period in 2019, concerning terminations of pregnancy beyond 12 weeks. Same observation at the women's house in Saint-Denis, where gynaecologist Ghada Hatem welcomes ten times more women out of time since confinement. The explanations are simple – they have been recalled many times by healthcare professionals. First, there is the saturation of hospitals and the suppression of certain surgical operations. The extent of health care deferrals and waivers during the containment period is now known; Of course, access to the GVI has not escaped the rule. Then there was the fear of women going to the hospital: it could be fear of contagion, or fear of police control; But it was also and above all, for young women, the fear of explaining to their families that we need to go to the hospital for an IVG. It was also impossible for women who were victims of violence, who were known to have been even more numerous than usual, to escape control of their spouses during the time of an abortion. Moreover, some centres had to close because too many caregivers were ill and women were unable to travel to the Netherlands on time because the borders were closed. Colleagues, let us bear in mind that the vast majority of women are quickly alarmed when they are pregnant and resort to abortion as soon as possible. A delay is always related to problems. So, you'll tell me, this is all behind us. While we must welcome the evolution of the epidemic, I would like to point out that Île-de-France, the region with the greatest tensions in access to abortion, is still an "orange" area, which means, among other things, that hospitals are saturated. That is why, I insist, this subject is not behind us; It is, on the contrary, an emergency! Of course, the Government has heard these warnings. An exceptional development of the drug abortion method was decided by order of April 15 to allow city pharmacies to deliver the necessary drugs, to allow teleconsultations and to extend the duration of access from five to seven weeks of pregnancy. However, health professionals and associations that accompany women are unanimous: this is not enough to absorb delays in care. It is necessary – and it is still time – to extend the period of access to the IVG by 15 days as long as the state of health emergency lasts. On these benches, many of us have wished to introduce amendments to the bill extending the state of health emergency and to the bill containing various urgent provisions in order to adjust the conditions for access to termination of pregnancy. These amendments could not be considered on the grounds that they were not directly related to the texts examined. However, on the occasion of the many parliamentary debates that have brought us together since the beginning of the health crisis, we have not hesitated to extend deadlines of all kinds. We even extended the time to send his tax return. On the other hand, when it comes to women's rights, the Government tells us that such development cannot be taken lightly! I believe that it should be considered that the time limit was suspended during confinement – as well as the entire limitation period – since women did not have access to medical institutions and they simply were not able to exercise their rights. In presenting the matter in this way, we do not understand the debates that led our honourable senators to reject these amendments. Whatever our convictions and the way in which we consider women's distress at unwanted pregnancy, we know that a woman who wishes to interrupt her pregnancy will interrupt her – no matter what the law says. The medical interruption of pregnancy, which can be performed until the end of pregnancy, could have been a solution, but the procedure is very difficult for both women and doctors. It is even more complicated to use in this period of covid -19 epidemic; It also suffers from significant territorial inequalities. It would have been necessary to simplify it. We have tabled amendments to that effect, but they have been rejected in the same way. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, SOC and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of these seven weeks of confinement and despite the mobilisation of civil society, it can be seen that only blurred half-measures have been taken that inhibit women's autonomy. Let us not be ethical, since it is a matter of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u157	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u158	From ancient times through ancient Greece, Roman cities and the Middle Ages, historians find traces of abortive practices. Each time, they are described as stories of women: women who suffer, women who suffer, women who die. Beyond physiology, it is therefore a woman's story that of abortion – as if the sexual intercourse that led to this pregnancy was ignored and that men did not want to see it. Women have always been under the pressure of fertility control, and they also face the consequences of unwanted pregnancies. It is a subject that has often been the subject of heated debate, and it can easily be seen as a men's fear of women acquiring an immense right over paternity and their own bodies. The history of voluntary termination of pregnancy is inextricably linked to the history of women's rights and status, to the role society assigns to them and accepts, and finally to the vision of women's bodies. "Never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will be enough to challenge women's rights," wrote Simone de Beauvoir. We must therefore be vigilant, men and women, so that this right conquered from high struggle is preserved and finds in France the conditions for its exercise, including in a context of crisis, as we currently know. In France, however, abortion is more a concession to women than a right in its own right – at least this was noted in 2013 by the High Council for Equality between Women and Men in its report on access to abortion. In order for it to be fully a right, the conditions for the exercise of the GVI must be clear and accessible. Their number remains relatively stable in France, with some 210000 IVG practiced each year. The National Institute for Demographic Studies estimates that almost 40 per cent of women will have recourse to abortion at least once in their lives; This figure is stable and rather higher than the European average, even though there is a decrease in contraceptive failures and unplanned pregnancies due to the spread of medical methods of contraception. There is also an increase in the likelihood of using GVI in the event of unplanned pregnancy. The number of abortions, including among the youngest, is not primarily due to a lack of contraceptive coverage. In 2007, according to the DREES IVG survey, the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics, two out of three women who had an IVG were using a contraceptive method that had not worked. In 2013, according to the FECOND survey, only 3% of women did not use any contraceptive methods. It is therefore clear that public policies in this area must have two complementary parts: an unwanted pregnancy prevention policy and an information policy on access to abortion. Yet the state does not evaluate these policies very much. The last IGAS report, the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs, on the subject dates from February 2010. He indicated that, despite significant progress, progress could still be made in prevention. Following the publication of the report, the policy of preventing unwanted pregnancies had been strengthened and further recommendations had been made to the National Institute for Health Prevention and Education, INPES, for the conduct of information campaigns. In 2014, DREES noted a stable use of GVI. Beyond statistics, these are never anodized human stories, which must be accompanied. "No woman resorts to abortion from her heart. All you have to do is listen to the women. [...] It is always a drama and it will always remain a drama," said Simone Veil in this chamber. Behind these tragedies there are women, the social workers who accompany them, the families who sometimes support them, sometimes ignore them, sometimes reject them; There are doctors, midwives, caregivers. Every time, it's a personal, unique story. Public policies must not leave women alone. First of all, we owe them information, fair, rigorous, passionate and objective information. This may seem simple at the time of search engines – and yet... However, access to information can be difficult when lobbyists or associations, under the guise of helping women, encourage them not to use GVI. Some sites are actually published by anti-abortion activists. The same applies to so-called support forums, where testimonies have been mounted from all quarters by opponents of the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy. It's difficult when you live away from medical facilities and you don't have transportation, when the school nurse doesn't have time to see you because she has to take care of too many students alone, when family pressure and promiscuity make research complicated. It is difficult when precariousness adds difficulties to the anxiety of an unwanted pregnancy. It is difficult when you are offered an appointment at the hospital too late for lack of resources, while the High Health Authority recommends that every patient get a consultation within five days. Yes, it's hard to have an abortion. And it's hard when you're told, at the end of the confinement, that the legal deadline is exceeded. We need to accompany these women. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We therefore probably also need to review our public information policies on access to abortion, first by assessing them and working with associations to adapt them to our times, then by accompanying women. Let us remain vigilant about the conditions for the exercise of this right conquered more than forty years ago, but still threatened by moralists, who want to reduce women's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u159	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u160	The words spoken in 1974 by Simone Veil always sound as fair: no, "no woman makes use of the joy of heart to abortion." It has been legal in our country for forty-five years; However, it remains a personal, difficult, painful choice. The subject is so intimate and sensitive that it is still a taboo in our society. We are currently experiencing one of the most serious social, economic and health crises that have taken place since the Second World War. Its consequences are serious, and our health system, which has experienced profound upheavals over the past decade, is weakened. Caregivers have been denouncing a lack of resources and working conditions for years. This deteriorating situation in the public hospital has had the effect of weakening access to care and consequently access to abortion. The closure of maternity wards where the number of births was considered too low resulted in the closure of several IVG centres. Bed removals, removals of posts, access to deteriorated care: these measures have had serious consequences. The distance from the GVI centres is extra kilometres for women to travel. However, they need medical support and sometimes psychological support, without having to travel 50 or 100 kilometres to find it. Today, in order to stop their pregnancy, many women have to go to a department close to the one where they live. In 2019, the Ministry of Health itself recognized the existence of territories in tension in most regions. At the same time, however, major legislative advances have been adopted in recent years. Since 2013, at the initiative of Marisol Touraine, the IVG has been fully reimbursed by social security. In 2016, 100% care is extended to all medical procedures surrounding abortion. Making abortion free has allowed women to be more free of their choice, regardless of their social background and income. However, many of them continue to be under pressure within their families or entourage. Anti-choice sites and associations remain very active to deter women from using abortion. In 1917 – pardon, in 2017...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u161	[[Laughs]] A thousand nine hundred and seventeen is a good reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u162	This is indeed a good reference but not to the present discussion...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u163	[[Smile]] Lenin, wake up, they've gone crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u164	In 2017, therefore, the inclusion in the law of the offence of obstructing abortion was a major step forward in penalizing sites that sought to deter women from abortion. But this law is difficult to enforce: since its promulgation, no conviction has been handed down. Women's guilt and distressing discourses about possible complications are the main springs used, making the obstacle to abortion more insidious. The action of the anti-choice associations also targets the medical community, as the double conscience clause enjoyed by doctors is a lever to prevent access to abortion. No statistics in France shed light on the proportion of doctors who use this conscience clause, but the High Council for Equality between Women and Men refers to a shortage of doctors practising IVG. On the ground, the effects are concrete: in 2018, for example, in the Sarthe, the Bailleul hospital could no longer practice IVG because three of the four competent doctors had invoked the conscience clause. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM, LR and MODEM groups]] Thus, fundamental questions arise: how many doctors refuse to practice abortions? Is their number going up? Is the awareness clause related to abortion still necessary, or was it only in the context of the 1970s, that of the decriminalization of abortion? To facilitate access to abortion is not to trivialize it, but to allow women to freely dispose of their bodies, to make a choice that should not be hindered by their financial means or their social origin. To defend this right is to affirm that women are not subject and that they alone have their bodies. While other countries seem to question it, it is essential to continue to defend it as a fundamental freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u165	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u166	Forty-five years ago, here in this House, our country made a choice that can be described as historical. The right to abortion will remain an emblem of the major battles being waged by the Ministry of Health. The aim was to put an end to clandestine abortions that had cost so many lives and to make undeniable progress on women's rights. Who today remembers these hangers that have become the symbol of hiding? Who remembers the atrocious difficulties faced by a large number of women forced to go abroad for abortion? I wasn't born,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u167	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u168	...but history books say so. Let me therefore thank those who, on a daily basis, make it possible to exercise this right. They make the law what it is basically: a right to the service of women, the right to dispose of her body. We all remember Simone Veil's words in the rostrum of the Assembly, we all have in mind the violence of the attacks she faced with exceptional courage. The law of 17 January 1975, known as the Veil Act, is forty-five years old; However, we must remain very vigilant because the right to abortion is being called into question in many countries where it has so far been regarded as definitively acquired. Threats are growing. We must mobilize: how can we not see the link between certain authoritarian tendencies and the denial of the right to abortion? Even in some democracies, we must be alerted by retreats; I am thinking of the United States or, closer to us, Hungary and Poland. In France, in January 2020, an anti-IVG campaign took place in the advertising spaces of the Paris metro.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u169	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u170	Its promoters dared to point out that going back forty-five years would be a step forward for society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u171	What a horror!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u172	Nor do I forget the counter-truths, the speeches aimed at making women feel guilty and circulating at high speed, especially on social networks. I say it as I think it is: sowing trouble, sharpening doubts, harassing those who think, or who have made their decision, is unbearable. Should I mention the regular rallies which, still today, are aimed at discouraging women from resorting to abortion? One might be content with seeing a paroxysmic naturalism or a bit of ridiculous simmagreas, but they bear witness to something much more serious: a form of re-establishing the grip on women's bodies, because the right to abortion is resolutely women's right to dispose of their bodies. In 2018, 224300 IVG was realized in France. Since 2001, their number has ranged from 215000 to 230000 depending on the year: it is therefore relatively stable, which runs counter to the perceived notions that abortion would have become a means of contraception like any other. Of course, the health crisis that we have just experienced, and which we have not completely emerged from, has not without consequences for the exercise of the right to abortion, but everything has been done to ensure that this right remains effective and can be exercised under the best conditions. Covid-19 did not challenge our most fundamental values. Again, every effort has been made to facilitate timely access to GVI. The necessary measures have been taken to protect women from covid-19 in specific circuits and to maintain quality management of abortions while at the same time providing hospital resources. I am thinking of the priority given to IVG drugs in the city or at home, which I extended to nine weeks of amenorrhea instead of seven in normal times. General practitioners and gynaecologists, city midwives and family planning have made remarkable efforts, especially for any patient with psychosocial difficulties. While 5% of abortions take place during the last two weeks of the legal deadline, i.e. between the twelfth and fourteenth weeks of amenorrhea, between the tenth and twelfth weeks of pregnancy, we developed special accompaniments for these late abortions; specialized teams coordinated them. Also in order to ensure access to GVI during confinement, teleconsultation has proven to be relevant to some or all of the consultations that structure the drug GVI route. I repeat, we then authorized pre-abortive and post-abortive teleconsultations, but also the dematerialized distribution of the abortive pill by sending the prescription. Women who needed abortion or who wished to have abortion were able to do so without having to go to a medical office at any time. The drug circuit has been designed to allow them to obtain abortive pills directly from the pharmacy. As far as deadlines are concerned, I know that some people wanted to go further in times of crisis, on the legitimate grounds that the circumstances made it more difficult to comply with the legal deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u173	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u174	I hear this argument, and that is why we have changed the time frame for IVG drugs at home, following the advice of the High Health Authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u175	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u176	The question of the legal deadline, i.e. the deadline for carrying out an abortion, could not be dealt with at the turn of an amendment, as part of the examination of a bill, with measures relating to partial unemployment or Brexit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u177	That is why we wanted to adopt a temporary measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u178	Again, Mrs Faucillon, I hear these arguments; I am not closed to the debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u179	That has not always been the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u180	...but it must take place in front of both chambers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u181	The Senate rejected the measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u182	Who can believe that once the emergency had passed, we would have returned to that delay in a snap of fingers, on the pretext, precisely, that it had passed?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u183	The emergency is now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u184	That is why we wanted a temporary measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u185	The medical emergency would only have been a pretext!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u186	It would have been extremely complicated to revisit this measure. Let us not confuse the necessary adjustment of the mechanisms in times of crisis, while health services and professionals are subject to particular tensions, with the change of regime of a practice that would certainly have much to lose if it were not envisaged in a democratic debate, respectful of all sensitivities. Others could have told you that they were opposed to this measure: I am not saying anything like that. I have only consulted gynaecologists, family planning, militant doctors who carry out abortions, midwives, associations in large numbers. I did not wait for the crisis to do so; the subject has been asking me for a long time. The extension of the time limit of the IVG is a matter for debate, including action. In this case, Parliament is free to debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u187	So let's debate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u188	I am not meant to close or prevent a debate on these issues: in the name of what would I do?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u189	Call Richard Ferrand, and we can discuss it tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u190	Exactly, Mrs Faucillon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u191	In a text dealing with the state of health emergency, at the turn of a Senate amendment, it was very complicated not to plan democratic debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u192	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u193	Nevertheless, I asked for an assessment of the derogatory measures taken with regard to abortion during the health crisis; I shall once again refer the matter to the High Health Authority in order to perpetuate those whose effectiveness and necessity would have been demonstrated, in particular telemedicine or the extension of the time limit for the completion of IVG drugs at home. It's important. I also supported the recognition of confinement as a psychosocial ground for the use of IMG, the medical interruption of pregnancy. If your motivation, and I truly believe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u194	I hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u195	...is to ensure that no woman will continue an unwanted pregnancy due to lack of access to an abortion under normal conditions, and this, due to confinement, will not solve the problem in the majority of cases that could be observed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u196	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u197	No. Increasing the two-week delay will not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u198	You had to do it two weeks ago, then! Three weeks ago we asked you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u199	On the other hand, it is possible to facilitate access to the IMG by way of derogation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u200	That's what all doctors are asking for!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u201	Colleagues, please! Listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u202	IMG is not constrained by the twelve weeks of pregnancy. There is a psychosocial risk associated with confinement: distress, the physical impossibility of performing an IVG. The gynaecologists, the associations I interviewed told me: this measure is likely to remedy the most problematic situations. Again, you are entirely free to discuss the extension of the deadline. I'm all but closed on societal issues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u203	Have you noticed that we are part of the opposition? The debate this evening is the only way that we have found to address this issue!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u204	... and notwithstanding the fact that the amendment relating to this subject could not be included in the law, my Ministry has taken the measures that actually allow access to abortion with a reactivity for which I thank both the High Health Authority and all the health administrations that have intervened on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u205	We come to the questions. I would remind you that their duration, as well as that of the replies, is limited to two minutes without the right to reply. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u206	It seems, Mr. Minister, that you have been less precautionary for certain subjects which, however, called for urgent treatment, including the means of guaranteeing the right to abortion, the right to free disposal of his body. We need to evaluate public policies in this area. Abortion must not be a subject that is not discussed, or simply murmuring. On the contrary, we have to talk about it for what it is: abortion will always be a complex, painful choice that no one is thinking of trivializing. This is one more reason to insist on the quality of human accompaniment, which requires a renewed attention to the territorial mesh of the IVG centres. The succession of medical appointments sometimes resembles a race of obstacles. Abortion requires a choice, a will, a decision, but the proliferation of diversion sites, which deceive women and couples in search of information, requires vigorous action. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] What are the avenues envisaged by the Government to better accompany women throughout their journey, from information to action and its aftermath?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u207	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u208	Allow me to associate myself with your comments. Your question includes several, regarding the difficulties of accessing the IVG and meeting the schedule of the various medical appointments. It should be noted that midwives have recently been allowed to practice GVI by the drug route. This is not said enough, but this is an additional way to access the GVI. However, only 3% of liberal midwives now carry out abortions. It is essential to inform women of the possible care provided by these health professionals. This is an answer to your first question about the attention given to the territorial grid. You also raise the problem of sites that make propaganda on social networks to scare, to intimidate women, discourage them from using abortion. At the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, we monitor the activities of the networks and ensure in particular that the ministry's website, in connection with the page dedicated to the IVG, is well referenced and is the first to appear in a research on the subject. We work with health professionals to ensure access to information, which is our primary objective. I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Mr. Lachaud, who cited the case of a doctor refusing her patient access to the IVG. A clause states that a physician who refuses to perform an IVG must automatically direct her patient to a physician who agrees to do so. This clause, in that it prevents the consequences of such a refusal, also ensures access to the IVG.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u209	Mrs Bérangère Couillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u210	Abortion: a legal choice, a human right, for which we fought. Abortion must be a choice, be simple, be sure, and above all be possible everywhere. Yet access to GVI can be long, complex and unequal in some of our territories. The average time between application and GVI is 7.4 days, which varies from three to eleven days depending on the region. Imagine: women sometimes have to travel long distances, make many calls, before they get an appointment in an emergency, because abortion is an emergency care. One in three women will use GVI in her lifetime. Although the IVG was legalized forty-five years ago, there are still territories where this medical act can be a part of the combatant's journey. The containment will have had an impact on access to the IVG. The health crisis must not call into question our most fundamental values, the emancipation of women and their right to dispose of their bodies. Wherever a woman is, regardless of her age, if she does not wish to continue a pregnancy, she must be able to interrupt her in good conditions, whether she lives in rural or urban areas, in the North or in the South. No difference, no exception can be tolerated. Another problem with containment was access to information. To make an informed decision, women must have access to neutral and safe medical information. French women have become accustomed to finding out about themselves on the Internet, where, alas, the messages sometimes resemble disinformation. Sites are sometimes referenced before the Government's site and boast of providing informed information. Really? These sites are part of anti-IVG propaganda. Madam Secretary of State, could you tell us what measures you intend to take to improve access to abortion in our territories and to combat misinformation on the Internet?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u211	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u212	You're asking a central question. If the right of women to dispose of their bodies is provided for in the texts, is it a reality in all territories? Each year, the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics, DREES, submits a study on GVI. Despite annual variations, the number of abortions remains stable, as the minister recalled earlier: between 210000 and 230000 acts per year, for the last 20 years. However, recourse rates may differ widely from one jurisdiction to another. Thus, for every thousand women, there are eleven IVGs in the Pays de la Loire compared to twenty-two in the PACA region, but it is in the overseas departments and regions that the rates are highest, up to thirty-nine IVGs per thousand women in Guadeloupe. Agnès Buzyn launched a one-time survey of regional health agencies in 2019. If there are no white areas for access to IVG as such, territories are in tension within each region. We identified them and asked each SRA to provide them with solutions. One of them is offered by the possibility, recognized some time ago to midwives, to carry out IVGs at home. I was just talking to your colleague. However, this practice is still too unknown. As far as the fight against misinformation on the Internet is concerned, you are right, organizations provide partial or false information, while French women must be able to access the real information. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health must therefore make every effort to ensure that the website ivg.gouv.fr is fully identified and appears first in a keyword search.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u213	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u214	The crisis we are going through says something about our society and, in advance of my question, I would like to share the impression with you. This period has led us to take urgent and legitimate decisions to adapt ourselves, protect our citizens, our jobs, our territories and our economy. However, we need to make a serious assessment of our society in 2020. While it took us only a few moments to adjust the rules on the legal organization of work, which was necessary, we are still having to negotiate with the Government, in the area of access to women's health, to ensure that it fully guarantees the right to a voluntary or medical interruption of pregnancy during the crisis that we are going through. However, the urgency justified it – and still justifies it, moreover, because family planning, as my colleagues have pointed out, would have seen an 184% increase in requests for an out-of-time termination of pregnancy due to confinement. This situation says one thing about our society: the fight for equality is still very long, too long, unfortunately. I wanted to share this with you, Madam Secretary of State, because I know your convictions. What is more, Olivier Véran gives us an attentive ear and I know that, under his impulse, he repeated it to us earlier, strong decisions were made. However, we could go much further.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u215	Is this a call from the foot to join the government? Gilles Le Gendre, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u216	During the last two years of this legislature, you will find on the various benches of the Assembly MPs ready to strengthen the rights of women against those who only desire to maintain the conservatism of an unequal society. I now come to my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u217	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u218	The validation of a medical interruption of pregnancy is permitted by a team comprising, among others, a physician qualified in obstetric gynaecology who is a member of a multidisciplinary prenatal diagnostic centre, a CPDPN, which complicates access to the IMG. Therefore, in order to improve the responsiveness of medical teams, especially during this period, could the current law not be relaxed by replacing the requirement of a physician who is a member of a CPDPN, with a doctor from an obstetric gynaecology department or a doctor from a centre referred to in article R2212-12 of the Public Health Code, better placed to assess the distress and danger that may result from the psychological distress incurred by these women? (Applause from a few benches of the LaREM groups. – Mr Stéphane Little applauds as well.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u219	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u220	The difference is probably very clear in your mind, but allow me, for the sake of clarity of the debate, to distinguish between the voluntary termination of pregnancy, the abortion, and the medical interruption of pregnancy, the IMG. As you recalled, abortion is a fundamental right that results from the woman's choice alone, the law setting a period of twelve weeks of pregnancy or fourteen weeks of amenorrhea. The medical interruption of pregnancy is due to special circumstances, such as a malformation of the foetus or a serious risk to the mother's health. This abortion is not subject to a legal deadline, but the decision to resort to it is collegial. The precision is important because medical interruption of pregnancy cannot be equated with an out-of-time GVI. You are inviting us, Mr. Member, to review the composition of the collegiate team responsible for validating the decision on the medical interruption of pregnancy, i.e. when abortion is decided because the woman is at risk, for example. Your proposal to replace the doctor specializing in fetal medicine with an obstetrician gynecologist is interesting. I suggest that you consider this in the context of the next revision of the Bioethics Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u221	Mr Sebastien Leclerc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u222	The subject we are addressing tonight is very complicated, firstly because the choice for a woman to abort is strong and psychologically significant, and secondly because the right to abortion, which was a major social advance of the 1970s, has, according to statistics, led to the practice of 220,000 voluntary abortions every year. In other words, one in three women would resort to voluntary termination of pregnancy during their lifetime. The challenge of access to abortion, in my view, is not to see this change, but to take steps upstream so that women who do not wish to become pregnant can have alternatives to resorting ultimately to abortion. Sexual education and access to contraceptives in schools should not be taboo subjects. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We must also ask the question of the means allocated to family planning. Last year, in many departments, a different distribution of appropriations led to a decrease in subsidies for these structures. On the contrary, in order to limit the use of abortion as much as possible, we should strengthen the support they receive because they carry out preventive measures. Many testimonies show that it is not as easy as the law provides.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u223	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u224	You are asking the question of prevention, as is your colleague Xavier Breton earlier. In 2018, the Government launched a national prevention priority plan, which reflects the commitment of the President of the Republic. One of the main thrusts of the plan was the definition of a three-year national sexual health strategy, including a comprehensive sexual health consultation, in order to take care of these young women, to accompany them, regardless of their age, and to explain the situation, the risks they face and the remedies available to them, in particular the abortion. As far as subsidies for family planning are concerned, it should be noted that many of the acts are not carried out by these structures. Let us not forget the consultation centres, the city medicine, or the possibility of practicing an IVG at home. These are places where consultation is facilitated. The period of reflection has been removed, which does not mean that it no longer exists but its duration is adapted to each case by the healthcare professional. Over the years, we have been able to meet the needs of our fellow citizens and provide them with better answers. Other issues remain open, in particular the continuation of the measures decided to deal with the crisis, once this period has been completed and their evaluation carried out. The minister has made it very clear that there will be some reflection on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u225	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u226	When I became involved in politics, I always made a promise to remain true to my convictions, whether or not it pleases my political family. I have proved this during the debate on the LDC for all. Tonight, I may again disagree with my colleagues because I think it is essential to extend the legal deadline for the abortion. Forty-five after the adoption of the Veil law, access to abortion in France still resembles, at times, a path sown with obstacles and technical obstacles. The closure of IVG medical centres, due to a lack of financial and human resources, extends the time for consultation. During the crisis of the coronavirus, the activity of the centres of orthogenia fell sharply; Many patients were not seen and very few abortions were performed. Today's concern is about women arriving out of time because they have not been able to claim their right to abortion in time, i.e. before 12 weeks of pregnancy. Fearing for many women, several associations, including family planning, have sounded alarm bells. The period of confinement has increased the number of domestic violence against women: there have been five times more reports than in normal times on the platform to stop the violence. Such violence sometimes results in rape and rape through unwanted pregnancies. In addition, there is the obvious fear of talking about it, as well as the problem of closed or overcrowded structures when they are reopened or refusals to take care of those who had symptoms of covid-19. The reasons for these exceedances are multiple. While with the health crisis the exception became the rule, legitimate time-limit changes were made to everything that affected the daily life of the French, whether it was their individual freedoms, the labour code or the tax law; As one of our colleagues pointed out earlier, we even extended the deadline for filing his tax return! On the other hand, the extension of the abortion period from 12 weeks to 14 weeks has been swept away by a back of hand. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC,FI and GDR groups as well as on several benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM, EDS and Agir ens groups]] Without this prolongation, women who can and can afford it will, as in the case of the LDC, abort abroad where deadlines are more flexible, thereby increasing the dangers of intervention and deepening social inequalities in the face of abortion. When do you plan to eliminate these discriminations against women? When was the debate before Parliament, proposed by the minister a few minutes ago?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u227	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u228	Allow me to highlight the reactivity of the professionals who quickly alerted us to the difficulties of access to consultations in the context of the crisis of the Covid-19. The Minister has therefore taken the lead of the High Health Authority in deciding on appropriate measures, such as teleconsultation, the extension of the time limit for the use of IVG in city medicine – from seven to nine weeks of amenorrhea – and the maintenance of pre- and post-IVG consultations, so as to provide an urgent response to the needs of women. Travel certificates have also been modified to allow minors to go to their consultations. We will determine, at the end of the crisis, whether these measures should continue to be implemented. The Minister has made this commitment clear. In addition, RHA surveys indicate that the average time between first contact with health care professionals and abortion is seven days: treatment is therefore rapid from the moment the patient has contacted the professionals, and only 5% of the GVI takes place within the last two weeks of the legal deadline, i.e. between 12 and 14 weeks of amenorrhea. Support in France is therefore good. In response to our questions, the ARS informed us that there were no white areas, but only areas of tension.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u229	We mustn't listen to the ARS!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u230	We have asked them to work with professionals and we will be particularly careful, in cases where the doctor refuses to practice IVG, to ensure that the patient is systematically referred to another professional.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u231	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u232	A right is effective only if the material conditions necessary for its exercise are met. The health crisis that we have just experienced has had a serious impact on access to abortion and has experienced the current system. The fears were numerous and legitimate because this right – this right of women – could be put in jeopardy, whereas it must always be considered a priority. Legal deadlines are forced and Minister Veran has confirmed that a worrying reduction in the number of abortions has been observed during this last period. As a result of the concerns expressed by health professionals and many associations, the extension of the period of voluntary termination of pregnancy was discussed in the Assembly and in the public square and a decree of 14 April adapted the modalities. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] However, Madam Secretary of State, I will go straight to the point: has the health crisis of the covid -19 revealed any limitations to the mechanism of access to the IVG? Did it accentuate these limits? Could some current procedures pave the way for day-to-day improvements? More specifically, do you have any feedback on telemedicine, its potential and effectiveness, or on the contrary the risks it may have created? Has this method proven its worth with respect to drug-related GVI? Do you think it is possible and desirable to perpetuate its use in order to facilitate women's access to abortion at all times?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u233	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u234	If the question asked is whether the crisis of the covid-19 caused difficulties of access to IVG, the answer is yes, in the same way as, during confinement, the French have less consulted their doctor, at the risk of worsening a chronic pathology. To facilitate access to the GVI, we quickly organized the use of teleconsultations for all mandatory consultations. We have also guaranteed the secrecy of the abortion of underage girls by amending the travel certificates to allow them to go to the appointment without parental permission. The time frame for drug GVI was extended to nine weeks of amenorrhea. Finally, strict instructions were given to hospitals to maintain IVG activity in optimal safety conditions. I repeat: during confinement, only carryable operations had to be postponed. However, we made it clear that GVIs were not reportable operations and therefore did not have to be deprogrammed. We have been vigilant on this point. On the other hand, the progress of the crisis will be assessed and, if necessary, sustained.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u235	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u236	While it has been recalled that abortion is one of the urgent interventions, we know that the right to abortion, which is already difficult and unevenly ensured in the national territory in normal times, has been severely restricted as a result of the crisis and confinement. On April 1, the Minister of Solidarity and Health pointed out that uphill reports of an alarming reduction in the use of abortion, and stated that it was out of the question that the covid-19 epidemic restricts the right to abortion. However, only the use of IVG drugs has been facilitated, in violation of the full definition of the right to abortion, which carries with it the freedom of choice, for women, of the abortive, drug or instrumental method. Moreover, this declaration was contradicted by the refusal to grant additional time to women who, for material reasons, were unable to assert their right within the time limit. As we know, and I repeat, the requests for GVI out of time have exploded. Legislation to respond to the crisis has provided for legal postponements of the time limit for the exercise of rights in many areas. Yet, for a right with such serious and severe repercussions, the Government refuses to intervene on the pretext that the subject would be too important to be dealt with in an emergency. On the other hand, it is quite possible to treat him in the Chamber at this late hour... [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] It is precisely the urgency that obliges us: our proposal to extend the period of access to the IVG during the state of emergency and for the next three months is to the strict extent of it. Extension would be granted only on a provisional basis. As we know, these out-of-time abortions will take place in any case, because women will exercise their right to self-determination. I therefore have one question to ask you, Madam Secretary of State: will women be forced, because of your inaction, to practice them clandestinely, at the risk of their physical integrity and their lives?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u237	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u238	I cannot let you say that we have not acted and that we have not adapted the prevention measures and the management of the abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u239	That's not what I said! You didn't listen to me, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u240	On the contrary, we have been reactive and have responded to the demands of professionals and some parliamentarians by adapting the system for the management of voluntary terminations of pregnancy, whether performed in cities or, for instrumental abortions, in health facilities. I repeat: we have responded to the urgency of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u241	Not as far as deadlines are concerned!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u242	The time limit for authorization of IVGs in city medicine or at home has been extended;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u243	Right is the choice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u244	... teleconsultations ensured all mandatory consultations, and professionals were fully present. In the hospital, GVIs were maintained as non-repayable acts. These measures have been adopted by various decrees drawn up in consultation with health professionals and parliamentarians through the legislation adopted. You are asking me if there is any question of returning to the extension, even temporary, of the time limit for authorization of abortions, in a few weeks or a few months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u245	This measure was requested by the professionals on March 31st!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u246	As the minister said earlier, this debate could not take place at the turn of a legislative amendment on Brexit and Unemployment Insurance. It is a social debate that takes time to deepen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u247	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u248	In my region of Pays de la Loire, it seems that there are more voluntary interruptions of pregnancy between twelve and fourteen weeks of amenorrhea, i.e. during the last two weeks of the legal period, than in the other regions of metropolis. A GVI is never easy to live for a woman who makes use of it, especially when it takes place at the end of the legal period. Containment related to the covid-19 epidemic lasted eight weeks, much of the time it is possible to perform an IVG. It is therefore to be feared that this period has called into question the right to abortion provided for in the legislation, so I would like to know whether this right has continued to be effective during the period, and how. Furthermore, the question of voluntary termination of pregnancy refers to the question of the various methods of contraception available, which can prevent unwanted pregnancies. Prevention is important; Our colleague Jeanine Dubie had the opportunity to say that earlier. The question therefore arises of the diversification of the methods of contraception proposed. If female contraception is developed, male contraception is reduced or even confidential. Men are relatively unresponsible on the subject which is just beginning to emerge within couples. Women should not be the only ones who bear the responsibility and burden of contraception. I would also like to know, Madam Secretary of State, whether you are planning measures to encourage, promote and develop male contraception.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u249	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u250	To answer your first question, I would like to point out that we are still in a state of health emergency and that it is therefore too early to take stock of the use of IVG in times of crisis. We will compare the current figures with last year's figures to measure the evolution of access to abortion during the covid -19 epidemic. Your second question is about male contraception, which is currently based primarily on condoms. Male hormonal contraception first raises the issue of authorization to place a health product on the market. To date, no request has been made for a male contraceptive pill, either from the National Medicines Health Agency or at European level, and such pills do not appear to be developing. So at this point, the only method of contraception for humans is condoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u251	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u252	I would like to ask a more specific question about access to IVG, the availability of medicines. During confinement, a shortage of medicines of all kinds was felt, for some because of their widespread use, and for others because of the disruption of the supply chain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u253	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u254	The increase in numbers is exponential: 1454 drug unavailabilitys were found in 2019, compared to 868 in 2018. Medicines that allow abortion are not spared, nor are contraceptives. And the phenomenon began long before confinement: for at least six months, some contraceptives were out of stock, with risks of unwanted pregnancies and abortions. The abortive drugs RU 486, Mifegyne and misoprostol are owned by a single pharmaceutical group, Nordic Pharma, which makes them vulnerable to the risks of production disruption and supply: production has been threatened by acts of anti-IVG activists, and their price has increased tenfold. The Social Security Financing Act for 2020 now requires four months of available medicines on European territory, but these provisions will only be effective from 30 June 2020. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, MODEM, SOC, GDR and on several benches of the LR group]] For women's rights, it is important for the Government to ensure that all the products and medicines necessary for contraception and abortion are constantly available. My question, therefore, is simple: when will the Government exercise proper control over these products necessary for the right to abortion? When, in the light of the supply crisis, will the Government relocate the manufacture of unprofitable medicines to a public sector in order to guarantee their production?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u255	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u256	Your question about the shortage of medicines, including medicines used for GVI, is both broad and highly targeted. First, at this stage, there is no shortage of IVG-related drugs. Let me recall, even if you know, that since there has been concern about a possible shortage, the Government has been very attentive to the supply of medicines. Strong measures, particularly in the area of storage and supply, were discussed here and adopted during the consideration of the draft law on the financing of social security. All these topics are closely monitored and are the subject of very specific work on our part. I would like to stress that we are careful to ensure that all medicines are supplied. During the covid crisis, the only tension we found, because it was not even a shortage, concerned anaesthetic products. Because we were vigilant, we chose to postpone non-emergency operations. But we have ensured that the GVI are not deprogrammed, so that all French women who wish to do so can actually avail themselves of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u257	No, we have also observed shortages concerning several molecules that I have quoted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u258	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u259	During the health crisis and especially during confinement, the family planning drew my attention to women's difficulties in accessing the voluntary interruption of surgical pregnancy in hospital settings – and you made the decision to extend the time frame for the use of IVG drugs outside of hospital settings, and I would like to thank you for that. However, women who wish to stop their pregnancy do not systematically call on health professionals and do not always go to the appropriate infrastructure. There are several reasons for this: first of all, the covid crisis and the confinement suffered have aggravated the feeling of loneliness of many women who wish to stop their pregnancy. Using abortion is a difficult and trying act for all women: in a context of exceptional crisis and out of disease with covid, many French people have turned away from healthcare professionals for fear of congesting services or exposing themselves to the virus. They also had to deal with the lack of open neighbourhood structures, where they could have benefited from basic help or psychological support in the present case. There have been many difficulties, especially for minors and those who wish to keep their intentions confidential. They could not use an IVG drug at home without talking to their parents, husbands or spouses, or accessing reception facilities without having to justify their travel. This has therefore been a serious obstacle to the fundamental freedom to freely dispose of his body. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] This unacceptable situation has led to an increase in unwanted pregnancies, unbearable violence: abortion must remain a choice, a freedom and a right for all women. For all these reasons, I reiterate a request, which has already been repeatedly expressed on these benches, to extend the time limit for recourse to aspiration abortion or surgical abortion to fourteen weeks of pregnancy, against twelve at present.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u260	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u261	During the crisis of the covid-19, the Government used all possible levers to facilitate access to the IVG. I've already called them back. Some would like to go further and extend the time limit for recourse to the IVG, or even delete it. However, the extension of the legal time limit for recourse to the IVG requires a much broader debate, such as the one which obviously took place in 1975, during the examination of the Veil law, or in 2001, during the specific debate aimed at extending the period from 12 to 14 weeks of amenorrhea. At the time, the National Ethics Advisory Committee had been brought before the bill. The extension of the legal deadline is an old claim, somewhat decorated by the management of the emergency linked to the covid-19 and the crisis that we are experiencing, even though it has enabled the subject to be brought back into the public debate. As has been said, we will have to learn from the recent period and draw all the conclusions from it, particularly with regard to the sustainability or evolution of certain measures that we have relaxed, such as the use of teleconsultation and the prolongation of the use of IVG drugs in city medicine or at home. The delegation of women's rights had also published a report, which would no doubt enable us to formulate more informed and informed replies. We will therefore be able to work together on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u262	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u263	The Order of April 14, 2020 authorized the practice of drug abortion in the context of the covid-19 epidemic. This has resulted in an exceptional and transient change in the course of the drug GVI to facilitate its use by women who are eligible to benefit from it. These measures include extending the waiting period for abortion until the ninth week of amenorrhea, i.e. the seventh week of pregnancy, the possibility of conducting all the necessary consultations for abortions in the form of teleconsultations with a doctor or midwife, and the possibility of delivering abortive medicines directly to the women concerned by the compendial pharmacist. The prescription shall state the name of the pharmacy designated by the person concerned, and the copy of the prescription shall be transmitted by the doctor or midwife by electronic means. Abortive medicines are then delivered directly, free of charge and anonymously, to the woman concerned by the official she has designated. This exceptional measure should be assessed, both by estimating the amount of IVG carried out under this procedure and by assessing the medical and psychological consequences. Can this modus operandi be made to last, as it is or with arrangements? Is teleconsultation a solution for isolated women, whether because they are prevented from leaving their homes by a violent spouse or for geographical reasons? Has the accompaniment of pharmacists taken on a psychological part? Madam Secretary of State, therefore, it is a complete assessment of this mechanism that will have to be carried out. I thank you for telling us what is planned in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM, FI, GDR and EDS groups]] On the other hand, in your reply to Mr Gouffier-Cha, you indicated that the bioethics bill could come back quickly: the chairman of the special committee and the Members who are present until late this night might like to have a scoop on the date of the second reading of this text of which we only hear from the press!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u264	The sovereign Parliament will decide this!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u265	If the chairman of the special commission could have information, it would be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u266	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u267	As you point out, in the context of the state of health emergency, the Government acted strongly, quickly and in a way that was derogatory. The passage of all the mandatory consultations in the form of telemedicine has, you recalled, required to change the delivery circuit of the abortive pills accessible in pharmacy. Here I would like to highlight the remarkable work done by the pharmaceutical professions during the health crisis, particularly in the support of women wishing to abort. I repeat that a qualitative and quantitative assessment of the various derogations will be carried out. All measures that have proved beneficial will be sustained, after a new referral to the High Health Authority and the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products, in particular with regard to the extension of the time limit for the use of IVG drugs at home. With regard to the bioethics bill, we are waiting for Parliament to resume its normal activity so that Members of Parliament and Senators can work with the Government on this beautiful issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u268	Then we must not prolong the state of emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u269	The right to demonstrate must also be effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u270	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u271	In this period of covid, and by way of derogation, adaptations have been decided to maintain access to abortion for women, in particular by favouring teleconsultation. As care was reduced with the closure of access centres and family planning, derogatory measures were taken. It is therefore necessary to recall the importance of the framework of the procedure laid down in the Code of Public Health, which should remain the rule at the end of the crisis. In fact, the aim of compulsory hospital visits is obviously not to force women, but to ensure their consent, their perfect information and, probably the most important, their health security. In the context we have known, the choice has been to generalize telemedicine and to give priority to the drug abortion method. We believe that this solution should not become the norm. Telemedicine cannot replace an appointment with a practitioner. Indeed, there are several questions: how to obtain reliable dating of pregnancy? How can we ensure the patient's actual consent without external pressure? How can we deal with the possible complications, which can be painful, of an isolated woman? As we all said, IVG will never be an annoyance. Temporary measures should therefore not become a norm, a kind of low-cost abortion to the detriment of women's health and freedom, or a pretext for the adoption of extended legal time limits. We will be vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u272	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u273	First of all, let me make it clear that it is not the transition to hospital that conditions the agreement for the use of IVG, but simply contact with a health professional during a consultation. That is why we have opened up the possibility of teleconsultation and telemedicine. Despite the epidemic of covid, we wanted to maintain and facilitate this necessary contact. I would like to make it clear that telemedicine is not an obligation, but a possibility used at the request of the woman or doctor: in case of need, a conventional consultation can be offered. It is therefore a matter of facilitating contact between a patient and those who can practice GVI, his doctor or midwife. During the management of the covid crisis, the objective was to ensure that maximum barriers to access to the IVG were identified and lifted in order to ensure the best possible access to the IVG in the context of the crisis. Finally, I would like to point out that the GVI was one of the operations identified as a priority, and therefore have not been staggered or deprogrammed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u274	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-08-O1228.u275	Next meeting, this morning, at nine o'clock: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
