ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the bill to speed up and simplify public action (No 3466).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u2	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u3	Presented last February by the Government, this bill to speed up and simplify public action was passed at first reading by the Senate in March and, due to the disruption of the legislative calendar due to the health crisis, by our assembly just three weeks ago. Since then, I have been working with Daniel Gremillet, rapporteur of the text in the Senate, to improve, consolidate and supplement the original provisions of this text, which has been particularly expanded during parliamentary debates, since it now includes more than 160 articles, compared to 50 when it was tabled. I would like to commend the quality of the discussions between the National Assembly and the Senate, which led to the development of a common text. Within a relatively tight time frame, we were able to arrive at a common drafting of all the articles of the bill, keeping the bulk of the many contributions of both the National Assembly and the Senate. Of course, several concessions and compromises were needed to overcome some disagreements. I think I can say that we have achieved this in a spirit of listening and dialogue that is particularly constructive. I would also like to thank the majority for their continued support and involvement throughout the discussion of this text. Simplification and speeding up public action cover very concrete issues, which concern the daily lives of our citizens, individuals and businesses. So this is a much-anticipated bill. Indeed, the deconcentration of individual administrative decisions, provided for in Title II, will make it possible to strengthen the effectiveness and proximity of public action to the direct contact of our territories. The simplification of environmental procedures and the reduction of the deadlines provided for in Title III will facilitate the work of project promoters. Indeed, during the numerous meetings and visits I made to prepare the report on the simplification and acceleration of industrial installations, which I submitted to the Prime Minister in September 2019, I found that legal uncertainty, the complexity of procedures and the uncertainty about administrative delays were among the main causes leading to the abandonment of a project. Finally, Title IV contains a series of various measures designed to simplify the lives of individuals and economic actors. I welcome the strengthening of the system for combating squatters in the home provided for in Article 30b, adopted unanimously in a special committee and completed in a public meeting. This development was indispensable. It demonstrates the usefulness of trans-partisan parliamentary work to improve administrative procedures in order to make them truly effective. Several measures should facilitate farmers' access to water resources. They have been expected for years and made all the more necessary by the multiple episodes of drought. In addition, with regard to article 44, the Assembly agreed to withdraw the authorization of the Government, in order to maintain the framework for promotions and raise the threshold for resale at a loss; the selected wording will allow time for the ongoing experiment to continue until April 2023, while taking into account the specificity of certain fields. Following the October 2020 report, which has just been submitted, Parliament will again be informed of the effects of the scheme in one year and then in two years' time. In the daily register, measures will simplify the lives of parents by removing the requirement for minors to undergo a medical examination for obtaining or renewing a licence. This medical examination is replaced by a self-assessment questionnaire – except, of course, for the most at-risk sports. On the other hand, the strengthening of the information obligations of lenders and insurers, at the initiative of the Senate and complemented by our assembly, will enable individuals with a real estate loan to fully exercise their right to change insurance and thereby achieve significant cost savings. Various measures will also facilitate the adoption of agreements on wage savings in companies – including smaller ones – which will help to consolidate the purchasing power of our citizens. Finally, at the initiative of the Government, the bill also aims to make the rules applicable to public procurement more flexible. In an exceptional context of health crisis, economic recovery is a priority. The new provisions will facilitate the award of public contracts, for the benefit of our companies and all our administrations, and with due respect, of course, for the law of the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the text adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, which I propose to adopt this afternoon, is the result of work that respects the original philosophy of the bill, while improving many provisions discussed at length in special committees and in public sittings. Let me conclude by quoting Henri Bergson: "Man should put as much effort into simplifying his life as he does in complicating it. I sincerely believe that the bill is a first response to the collective demand for simplification and acceleration of public action. The legislator will have the task of continuing and amplifying this useful and necessary work in the service of all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u4	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u5	I am pleased that the Senate and the Assembly have reached an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee on this bill to simplify public action. In this regard, I would like to pay tribute, Mr.Rapporteur, to the work done with your colleague in the Senate. This joint concluding committee is a testament to our concern – which I believe is collective, far beyond the benches of the majority alone – for the simplification of public action; This is a major issue for all our fellow citizens. It is the objective of this text, which is based on three main axes: firstly, a simpler administration which is closer to the citizens; Second, more simplicity for the French; Finally, more simplicity for companies. Title I, which I have defended before you, allows the operation of many administrative commissions to be abolished and streamlined in order to speed up decision-making. This will allow public officials to focus on priority missions in the service of our citizens. Title II, which I have also had the honour of defending before you, concerns the deconcentration of 99% of individual decisions, particularly in the health and economic sectors. These decisions are now being taken as close to the ground as possible, in order to enhance the effectiveness of public action. Indeed, this text provides initial answers to the demands and many expectations of the French regarding the simplification of public action and the acceleration of decision-making.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u6	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u7	In the current context, this simplification is particularly acute. If the urgency of the situation requires us to respond first and foremost to health issues, our mission is also to ensure the presence and effectiveness of public action and public service throughout the territory. The bill contributes to this by bringing the decision back to the relevant level. The revival of our economy also requires a further expansion of this simplification movement. It is even necessary for its success and it is up to us to bring rapid operational simplifications to all actors, whether they are households, companies, public officials or elected officials. The aim is to overcome very quickly all the irritants, all the procedures sometimes considered useless, which sometimes slow down the recovery of economic activity, investment and job creation far too significantly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] All government action is mobilised in this direction because the simplification of public action is also a means of improving public action. That is the whole meaning of my action as Minister of Transformation and Public Service. I am taking this action bearing in mind that those who suffer, especially the cumbersome complex procedures, are first the agents, before being the French. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that I can count on you to go further in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u8	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u9	The acceleration and simplification of public action is a strong expectation, regularly expressed by our citizens and elected representatives. It was clearly formulated by the French during the great national debate; It was also done by the companies of our country during the preparatory work for last year's productive pact; It was finally in the work of the Interdepartmental Committee on Public Transformation. These three sources fed into this simplification text. The crisis that we are going through has shown us that we can go further. The text has thus been enriched by inter-ministerial work on two aspects: on the one hand, the sustainability of certain emergency measures adopted since March 2020, such as measures for firms in difficulty or dematerialisation measures, which have shown their effectiveness; on the other hand, the simplification measures necessary to speed up the revival of our country, such as the raising of the threshold of the public order without formality for the works up to 100,000 euros for two years, necessary to speed up the thermal renovation of our public buildings. The text has also been enriched by parliamentarians, particularly in the National Assembly. Beyond the commitment to a simpler and closer administration to citizens, which has just been detailed by the minister, this bill aims to simplify the daily lives of French citizens and businesses. It aims to simplify administrative procedures in order to save our citizens and our administrations time. We will facilitate many administrative procedures, such as the issuance of various documents such as identity papers, the passage of driving licences or the opening of the popular savings booklet, which affects 40% of our citizens. We accept this diversity of measures because it is requested by our fellow citizens. The work of the two chambers has enriched the text with new lines of simplification to protect the French: simplification and acceleration of the administrative procedure of expulsion in the event of illegal occupation of the home and reinforcement of the so-called anti-squat criminal sanctions, which affect the most vulnerable; improving the dissemination of information to the departmental councils on the environment and health and technological risks – CODERST – extension of the use of energy cheques to accommodation for the elderly. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The bill also aims to simplify the lives of all businesses and promote economic recovery. The first focuses on procedures for industrial settlements and extensions, which the Government wishes to accelerate – without changing any standard of urban planning, archaeology or the environment, as has been said. As we have said, the deadlines for a decision to authorise are twice as long in France as in Sweden. However, Swedish law is at least as demanding as ours in terms of the environment. We had to review the procedures and we implemented the recommendations of the report of MP Guillaume Kasbarian, who did a remarkable job in the framework of the productive pact. Let us be clear: here we are talking about industry, technological sovereignty and jobs. The second is to anticipate and facilitate procedures to speed up the roll-out of the recovery. For the sharing of value, for public order, to protect our economic and food model, our compass, again, is activity and employment – and I will add the protection of the French. As you can see, this text is ambitious. Above all, it is the result of a work of consultation and co-construction. The bill has gradually been enriched by your input and parliamentary debate. In this connection, I would like to highlight the work done by both chambers, by the Joint Joint Committee and, in particular, by Mr Guillaume Kasbarian. Your spirit of dialogue, Mr rapporteur, has made it possible to move this text forward so that it meets the expectations expressed by our fellow citizens. Honourable senators noted yesterday that, of the 160 provisions, only two had been taken up as voted in the Senate. Yet they did not ask for a second reading. This reflects the long work of explanation, pedagogy and rewriting undertaken between the two chambers, of which I thank you. This also reflects the fact that these provisions are in fact the subject of consensus, in particular with regard to measures relating to industrial extensions. This demonstrates that these measures are effective in promoting the location of activities in our territories while respecting the demanding environmental standards of our country. Some measures were less consensual between the two chambers, but I am pleased that a compromise has been reached, in particular on the subject of the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as EGALIM. The experiment of raising the threshold of resale at loss was extended until April 2023, with an exception for festive products that will be effective as soon as the text comes into force – hopefully before the holiday period. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the end, this text nevertheless retains the coherence of its initial three axes: simplification of administration, simplification of the daily life of the French, simplification of business life. That is why I invite you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u10	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u11	You have heard us speak on this bill. You know why we reject her. In our view, it is a bric-à-brac without any coherence other than the application of a simple or even simplistic idea: neoliberalism in all fields. Everything that it will touch will therefore be disorganized, diminished, weakened and eventually privatized; We now know this chorus. The thread of the text is the dismantling of the state. Nothing more normal: there is no place for him in your ideology. You don't like the state. Therefore, you do not understand France, because its construction and that of its state are consubstantial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u13	The state, master of clocks, coordinates social times: those of training, production, distribution and reconstruction of the resource. The strategist state distinguishes and prioritizes priorities. The planning state guarantees the cohesion of chains of production interdependence. Probably without knowing it, perhaps without realizing it, you are servants of the short time, typical of the capitalism of our time and which, thanks to you, extends to all areas, especially those where the long time should reign in master. Our role, therefore, is to remind you in all circumstances that the time is ripe for planning, which alone allows us to agree, to harmonize the cycles of human activity with those of nature. That's why, in the middle of this bric-à-brac, I chose to speak only about one subject: the forest. The forest occupies a singular place, probably central, in the water cycle, now deregulated. Pocket after pocket, the national territory sees increasing episodes of drought, draining of rivers, water distress. Without being known or remembered, the forest accounts for 10% of this territory: that is, everything that concerns it affects the general interest. I'm probably telling you, but the French have the particularity of thinking about the link between forest and climate since the 17th century, and then, with Buffon, throughout the 18th century. During the great revolution of 1789, the confiscation of the church's forest properties had made the question of their inalienability on the agenda. The forest is cooling: it covers and absorbs CO, greenhouse gases. The forest humidifies: it holds the water and sends it down into the earth. The forest retains the soil: at each of these stormy episodes which now occur regularly, we see the price of its disappearance. The forest is the source of all the arable land available to the planet. The forest feeds biodiversity: at a time when one million animal and plant species are in danger of extinction, it is time to ask us at every moment whether we are acting in accordance with the interests of the latter. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot smiles]] Of course, I'm talking about the forest, not the power pole plantations. If you venture into such undergrowths, you will find that there is no sound, no murmuring. Under these blankets, there is no life. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Talking about the forest has been about its manager since the great revolution, the current National Forestry Board, the NFB. He was applied – oh, not just you! – the devastating remedy of liberal logic, which makes it possible to consider that the provisions of the text concerning forests are horsemen and that the Constitutional Council will cancel them. The system of industrial agriculture, i.e. monoculture, has been introduced into the forest; Here, they're resinous, mostly Douglas-fir trees. We know the immediate result. In the past, douglas were planted in the heights, especially in my good Jura department; Today, we put them everywhere, even on the plains! Naturally, the land is drying up, acidifying and biodiversity disappears. In fifty years, 2 million hectares of softwood have been planted! In some departments, it's a real invasion. In the Morvan, upstream of the river that serves the capital, because the Cure flows into the Yonne, which in turn joins the Seine, 50% of the hardwood forests have been replaced by resinous forests. Balance sheet: ten times less sawmills than in 1960; Thousands of hectares acidified and devastated by razed crops and cuts; forestry without a coherent industry, to the point that France, which owns the third forest in Europe, exports oak at 150 euros per cubic metre to buy it 800 euros in the form of furniture. Like a third-world country, we supply raw material, which is processed elsewhere and whose added value we pay. Can you tell us why, while our country has so many skills, we have come to this?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u15	We are at the point where the machines we have are not able to process trees of a diameter greater than that of the resinous ones that we implant everywhere: 20 to 30 centimetres, and provided that the trunk is absolutely straight, in order to enter the machine. Hardwoods a little twisted, a little weird, can't do it; When the most noble wood is available, its diameter is far too large for these machines. The first step was to liquidate government personnel, and above all their irreplaceable know-how: in the space of thirty years, 40% of NFB jobs were eliminated. The draft law allows for the replacement of civil servants by contractors in all missions. It is these provisions that we want to see removed, because only the status of public servant protects the officer who works in the woods from the pressure exerted on him. The forest is an immense wealth! The tasks of the public service, which you are about to transfer, are not only administrative, but also judicial police. We are aware of the pressures exerted from outside by buyers of wood, hunting companies, local elected officials, with whom the NFB maintains commercial relations: selling timber, renting hunting, selling services. There are also users, citizens, owners, residents. Only the composure of the administrative officer protects him from these pressures. I do not say that to point fingers at those who exercise them: after all, it is quite normal for them to defend what is right in their own eyes. But only the State, through its representatives, is the guarantor of the law, of the whole of the law, of its absolute character. The result of this evolution is that an agent must now monitor an average of 1,700 hectares of forest. You can't understand that. But we need this detailed inspection, because only the forest agent is able to spot places where things go wrong, or do not turn as planned. I will give you only one example: everyone thought that warming would spread from the south to the north, but its effects appear in places that are not the ones we expected, and that foresters first and foremost find out. No one had planned that there would be drought zones in Alsace. No one had planned only around Pontarlier, we would have to deliver water by truck. What foresters are asked for does not correspond to what they know how to do; Moreover, there are too few of them to do so. These people love their profession, and their object, so much that we are witnessing a real collective despair: since 2002, the NFB has experienced fifty suicides. Tell me why a forest guard would commit suicide, otherwise his life doesn't make any sense! I come to the proposals, since we must always make them: for French wood, we need forest planning. We need a production line whose machines would be adapted to the diameter of the hardwoods, so that we too can develop such machines. We need a market for wood objects. We need to organize plantations and formations in order to enhance the wood construction, because a wooden house is more fire resistant than a concrete house, and carpentry wood. There is an urgent need to frame razed cuts instead of bracing them to private service providers. I would ask you to consider with special benevolence and attention the bill tabled on this subject by Mathilde Panot. Shaved cuts have a direct impact on the climate: they release CO retained in trees and soils, heat them, and aggravate evaporation. There are currently no legislative provisions regulating these cuts. You could have introduced them into this text, but I imagine you considered them to be a complexation... [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Again, you see, from the beginning of the great revolution, we discussed in France the place of forests and their relationship with the climate. People who had nothing to do with communism decided that the State forests would constitute collective and inalienable property. The drafting of the articles of law relating to the use that can be made of these forests shows that their influence on the climate had already been understood. We can cut, we can sell only less than 150 hectares, the rest being inalienable, and only if these public forests are not necessary for the maintenance or protection of mountain land, for the regulation of the water regime or for the protection of its quality, for the biological balance of a region or for the well-being of the population. That's the law! And the monitoring of the application of these provisions, which affect the general interest, this text provides for the entrustment of it to private actors, of whom no one can say what they will do with it, if not private use.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u16	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u17	I am not going to make a plea in favour of the French forest here: these are not my responsibilities. On the other hand, Mr. Mélenchon, I was shocked by the terms you used at the beginning of your speech. I want to tell you that I love France, its identity, its history. I love the Fifth Republic since its foundation, I love the ordinance of 9 October 1945 which created our administration, I love its public service, its public agents, sometimes unknown, all essential in the exercise of their mission. They allow the rest of the French to be cared for, educated, protected, to set up their business, to protect the environment, to continue their research and to work for innovation. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Applause on the benches of the Dem and Acte ens groups]] You cannot say that we do not love the State, that we do not love France. The State, with its republican principles of which it is the agent, ensures equal treatment, ensures that no one is forgotten on the side of the road. I am, before you, the minister of all public officials and of all their actions. I meet them everywhere in France, I exchange constantly with them; I've just spent long hours with their union representatives. I can tell you that everyone, without exception, requires more simplicity, less procedural complexity, more trust and more initiative. To simplify our collective life in the interests of the French, we must first simplify the working lives of our public officials. To pretend that we do not love the state is at worst a lie, at best proof of a mistrust that it would be better for the country not to feed at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u18	For explanations of vote, I call Mrs Mathilde Panot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u19	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] Minister, it is impressive to see that you love the state, the public service, the public servants so much that you continue to remove positions. Since the beginning of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, the champion ministry in this area has been that of ecological transition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u20	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u21	We are in a period of ecological crisis, and this crisis is not going to end. It is a long-term emergency: we must plan, think. What Jean-Luc Mélenchon, the chairman of my group, made clear is that the public forestry service should have been the subject of a full debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u22	You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u23	[[Same movements]] Forest is a major issue for the next century, and what is happening there is extremely serious. You can speak, ladies and gentlemen, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u24	For now, they're not talking; They're drunk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u25	Don't hesitate to take the microphone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u26	Colleagues, come on! Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u27	The public forestry service should have been the subject of a real debate and not of an article among many others, which is indeed a legislative rider. Yes, I hope that the Constitutional Council will censor this article, which has nothing to do with the rest of the text, especially since if it is retained, the same NFB teams will have different sworn agents. When it comes to simplification, it's great! It's called a complexification! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You claim, Madam Minister, that all public servants are waiting for this reform. However, the whole inter-union is opposed to Article 33! In a letter to each of the parliamentarians, she asked us to fight. So, no, civil servants don't want this reform, which will put an end to the status of civil servant, which will allow you to privatize the National Forestry Board. What is happening is very serious, and it is important to point at it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u28	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u29	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Long exclamations on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I admit that if, as a teenager, I have been able to have a lot of admiration for the phrase, the speeches, the attitudes of the tribe, I sometimes think that sometimes, in order not to get old badly, it is better to leave the scene.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u30	You could at least use political arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u31	Don't you have anything to say about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u32	The text does not deal with the French forest and its management – wanting to reduce it to that, it is very badly read and badly worked. I like to hear that I don't understand France; I like to hear myself say, in a contemptuous tone: "You surely don't know..." But it was following the great debate that the text was built, thanks to our understanding and listening to the expectations of the French, the demands of our small, medium and large entrepreneurs, in all our territories, as well as the needs and expectations of public officials. It meets the expectations of the French. Perhaps we should tell them that it is not necessary to simplify the registration in sport of their minor children, the registration in the driver's licence, the procedures for setting up or extending a company; Perhaps we should tell them that we must not fight against squatters? Yes, in that case, we could join you. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] But we know France, we love it, and we meet its expectations. The La République en marche group will therefore not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u33	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u34	Just a word, Madam President – and everyone had to expect it. [[Smile on the benches of the FI and SOC groups]] You say, Mrs. Beaudouin-Hubiere, you must know how to grow old. Only, I don't think you're old enough to like it. You see, my point is nice! For my part, I have only one wish: that you age as fortunately as I am, who is in good physical health, and even I have the impression, sometimes as intellectual. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] But if age were to become an incrimination, ma'am, be kind enough to tell us when, as you say, it would take "to leave the scene", and to whom your remark is addressed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u35	Mr Rémi Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u36	Mr President Mélenchon, you are right: no, the text is not perfect. It is even a sort of paradox, since it has grown from 50 articles originally, to 160 today. As you have said, it is a far-reaching text, but it does not go far enough with regard to certain provisions. However, the Government must be recognized for its concern for subsidiarity and simplification of procedures for our citizens. This must be taken into account in our thinking, particularly in the context of a health and economic crisis. At the bottom, your argument – brilliant, as always – is a bit of the tree that hides the forest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u37	Oh, no...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u38	Indeed, the services around the forest are absolutely essential for our economy and for French heritage, especially cultural heritage. But if the subject indeed deserves our vigilance, we must also be careful about the decision taken by the CMP: an agreement has been reached between the Senate and the National Assembly, we must recognize it and take it into account. At the same time, the current emergency situation requires that we take these measures quickly. Don't ask us to be the referee: the majority of the Republicans will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u39	Courageous...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u40	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u41	Mr. Speaker Mélenchon, I do not understand the motion for a preliminary rejection that you have defended. You argued that the bill did not meet the real expectations of the French. Yet, it is precisely one thing that it aims to achieve: to simplify their lives. Have you ever heard your fellow citizens complain about the cumbersome administration? You yourself, have you ever been exasperated by certain excessive steps? The bill could be a simple idea: an accessible administration, and simplified approaches for citizens and businesses. Isn't that what you're proposing? Why, then, reject a text that aims at the same objectives as those you defend? To reject this text is to reject simplification, whether to have its identity papers drawn up or to register for the examination of the driving licence. To reject this text is to reject the facilitation, for families, of the search for places in crèches or among the maternal assistants. To reject this text is to refuse to help people living in EHPAD use their energy check to pay certain expenses. To reject this text is also to reject the inclusion in the law of the raising of the threshold of resale at loss and the framing of promotions. I could go on like this for very long minutes, as the text offers many simplification and acceleration measures. You've been talking about the forest for a long time. We join you about its unrivalled power in the fight against global warming. But what does the text do? It seeks to reform the NFB, which is known to be in a serious crisis, and which needs to be diversified in order to enrich it and enable it to carry out new missions. Because today, because of its financial difficulties and its functioning, the Agency is unable to meet these requirements and evolve. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group believes in this text and hopes that it can be implemented quickly...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u42	We've got to close, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u43	...for we refuse the infernal spiral of inflation of norms. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] For all these reasons, my group will obviously vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u44	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u45	It is true that we were surprised by Mr Mélenchon's argument – very relevant, moreover. But it is not the arguments he has put forward that prompt us to support the motion. If we are going to do this – it's rare on the part of our group, but it seems relevant to us here – it is because we believe that the right way to simplify is not to vote for a piece of legislation aimed at simplification. In our view, it is along the water that we need to simplify. This is what we did in the previous quinquennium with Thierry Mandon. In an attempt to address the need for simplification, we had also created the Business Simplification Council and the National Standards Assessment Council, which made it possible to simplify along the way, with the administration – because that is where the complexities are nested. The mechanism that you are proposing, which is not really a simplification mechanism, is very damaging to democracy and the environment. It is for these reasons that the Socialist and Related Group will vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u46	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u47	We will not support President Mélenchon's motion for a number of reasons. First of all, the bill really brings simplification measures, which are expected by both our businesses, our administrations, our territorial communities and all of our fellow citizens. We welcome the ongoing rationalization work, with the abolition of several advisory commissions. This will allow for more fluidity and efficiency in decision-making. Another important point is that the bill incorporates the national strategy of the recovery plan, allowing for relocation and support to the industrial sector. In our view, in the context of the crisis that we are experiencing, it is very important. Finally, the Joint Joint Committee, which has concluded, has made it possible to ensure that the text corresponds well to the expectations of both chambers, as well as those of all our fellow citizens. We therefore wish to support it. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u48	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u49	My dear colleague Mélenchon, I understand you: neither would I have liked to be told that I was getting old! But don't worry: Brassens said that "time does nothing about it [...], that we are twenty years old, that we are grandfather..." So don't take shade!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u50	[[Smile]] He's sailing between ages!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u51	Minister, Minister Delegate, the motion comes at the end of a legislative process that has asked all of us to work hard on a complex text. At the end of the CMP, which was concluded, we certainly did not reach a perfect text, but we were still able to conclude on a positive note and meet some of the expectations of our fellow citizens. Therefore, the IDU and independent group finds the motion unjustified, both in substance and in form, and will therefore not be associated with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u52	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u53	There was a little controversy earlier about the age of one of our colleagues. I recall, however, that he is younger, by a few months, than the High Commissioner on the Plan –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u55	[[Mrs Cécile Untermaier applauds]] ... since we were just talking about a plan. He is as young as our Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who seems to me to be able to cope with the particular difficulties of the moment, and who takes his full role and place with President Emmanuel Macron in the defence of the interests of France and Europe, but also of a certain form of democracy. Let's focus on people's ideas, not their age. Returning to the motion, I feel like I'm witnessing a school court quarrel to find out who will be the best defender of the interests of the Republic and its officials! For my part, I will tell you that there will be at the end only one arbitrator: the Constitutional Council – because no one knows that an appeal will be filed before this body. Unfortunately, for the past three years, we have seen that it is often overturning laws too quickly and too badly constructed by the majority and the Government. We'll see, then. The majority of members of the Libertés et territoires group do not support the bill, whose acronym, ASAP, also means in English "as soon as possible", i.e. "as quickly as possible", a sign that it translates a haste, not a collective construction. A large majority of us will therefore support the motion to reject put forward by our colleagues in La France, particularly because of one point that I want to mention: the weakening of environmental law that will result from clause 26 of the bill, which no one can ignore. A month after the drama of the Roya, we cannot afford this weakening. We must not let the prefects make vertical decisions, but, on the contrary, continue to work with the population, experts, stakeholders on the ground, so that economic activity and, more broadly, human activity are in line with the environmental reality of the territories. For these reasons, a large majority of the Libertés et territoires group will vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u57	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u58	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon smiles]] In my turn, I would like to say how much I appreciate the tribesmen, especially those who are ageing well and who show that they are able to gain in wisdom. If I too was surprised by the angle of attack of our colleague Jean-Luc Mélenchon, I must say how original it was. I believe that the decisions that we were able to take earlier, particularly in the special committee, were not in the right direction, particularly those aimed at reforming the National Forestry Board. I have already had the opportunity to say so, in particular by referring to the situation of my territory, Guyana, and its forest of 4.7 million hectares ravaged by illegal goldsmiths: the State has not been able to put in place the means necessary for its protection – I am thinking in particular of the establishment of agents of the NFB.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u59	Yeah, what's the state doing with the goldsmiths?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u60	On this point, we have all understood that the measures in this bill are contrary to what we should be doing. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] I admit that the text contains some good measures, which must not, however, be the tree that hides the forest: in other words, they must not forget all those which will have the consequence of aggravating an already critical situation. If we really want to make the fight against global warming a national priority, we must not be content with provisions which, as François-Michel Lambert said, are the opposite of what we should do to strengthen environmental rights. That is what this is all about, and that is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will support this motion of rejection proposed by the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u61	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u62	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 140 Number of votes cast 124 Absolute majority 63 For adoption 29 Against 95
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u64	In the general debate, Mrs Mathilde Panot spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u65	"Today, investing in France is a job. It is first of all an administrative task [...] I recognize that it is a calamity and if I can do something to simplify all this, believe that I will do it. Is this quote by Emmanuel Macron, Nicolas Sarkozy or François Hollande? No, it was pronounced by Georges Pompidou at the young bosses' dinner on April 27, 1964. It has therefore been at least fifty-six years since we heard of simplification in France... Colleagues, you'll have to recognize it, you're out of date and you always apply the same recipe to always lead to the same failure. Is there any problem in the country? Quick, the magic formula! We need a shock of simplification, a reduction in procedures, an end to administrative burdens to better unleash energy and be competitive and attractive! Your bill to speed up and simplify public action follows the recipe to the letter and, faithful to yourself, you destroy the staff of the State departments responsible for monitoring – because there is no control, no effectiveness of the law – before breaking down environmental standards on the pretext of red tape and, finally, abolishing the bodies responsible for evaluating your public action so that the problems disappear. Always the same recipe, always the same failure... Like your predecessors, you are simplifying it, you are simplifying it, for three years now, you are champions of simplification! You simplify labour law, simplify taxation for the rich and simplify environmental law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u66	And retreats!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u67	And what does it look like?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u68	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u69	It gives a code of work undertaken per company, abusive dismissals and thousands of broken lives, it gives a country where nine out of ten jobs created are short and precarious, it gives wealthy separatists who grow fatter endlessly and multinationals who trample unscrupulously on environmental law and our commons. I will tell you what is meant in practice by the simplification shock which you call your wishes. The simplification shock is to allow a new Lubrizol. The shock of simplification is the giant Lafarge who quietly pours concrete into the Seine. The shock of simplification is Lactalis, who has been polluting our rivers with impunity for the last ten years with 38 factories in violation, without causing you to raise your eyebrow. As the Minister of Environmental Transition herself says, "on small non-compliances that do not have a significant impact on the environment, there may be times when we say, "That can happen because it's not serious." » The only consistency of this text - all where we talk about both the advisory commissions, the Vitale map, the National Forestry Office and the sites classified for the environment - is your mortiferous liberal ideology. You could at least tell the truth, namely that simplification is only the other name of fiscal austerity, it is a bill drafted by a group of accountants addicted to Excel tables and indifferent to the general interest. As always, you're next to the plate. The health crisis will turn a million people into poverty. Thousands of young people have already lost their jobs because of confinement and have no resources or family support. Extras are digging their mouths open, while the rich continue to grow fat and multinationals pollute. And you, blind as you are, have not changed your archaic software!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u71	The situation in the country should shame you and all your energy should be deployed to combat the current social, health and ecological emergency, but not! Worse, you're dangerous when you say you want to free businesses and the French. Let's go to the end of your thought: what do you want to free them from? Public power? Your measures destroy the jobs of civil servants, liquidate the agents of the state and deprive them of the means to implement the ecological and solidarity bifurcation that we so much need. You lower environmental standards as they need to be strengthened, you allow a company to start destroying biodiversity before you even get permission to operate, you replace the officials of the National Forestry Office with private law employees, at a time when the forest is a major asset against climate change. This bill, which mobilized us for almost two months in the midst of a health crisis, does not meet the basic needs of our fellow citizens. Your attempts to make believe that you will revolutionize the lives of the French by putting an end to their administrative struggles are vain and laughable. Why not have simplified access to the law, while non-use of social rights is exploding? Why didn't you ban subcontracting at Seveso and nuclear sites? Just because your bill is all for the MEDEF and nothing for the people! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Colleagues, public power only makes sense – precisely – when it is powerful, which is why state services must be endowed with substantial human and financial resources and ambitious social and environmental standards. How can the bill be summarized? "Simplification everywhere and planning nowhere." But deregulation leads us straight into the wall and we find ourselves at a time of human civilization when your irresponsibility may cost us dearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u72	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u73	One month to the day after he passed the Assembly at first reading, we are here to pass – or not – the bill to speed up and simplify public action as it comes from the concluding CMP. This ASAP law – an acronym that, in English, means "as quickly as possible" – has never been so well named. However, the variety of topics discussed, ranging from wind turbines to insurance policies and the NFB organization, would surely have deserved further consideration, given the sometimes profound changes involved – I am thinking in particular of environmental procedures. This text leaves the bitter impression that you have seized the opportunity of the health crisis, which grabs everyone's attention, to bring about a whole bunch of retrograde measures for the environment, for participatory democracy and, ultimately, for the French. The wording of the text proposed to us this evening differs very little from the version adopted last month against the opinion of the GDR group: the only notable novelty is the creation of new books in the code of the public order, containing provisions applicable in case of exceptional circumstances. Of course, we can appreciate the few control measures that will simplify the lives of the French. In particular, the simplification of procedures for obtaining identity papers or driving licences will be noted. Similarly, two or three measures can be beneficial to our SMEs and artisans. I am thinking in particular of the extension to all global markets – including design-realisation markets, sectoral markets and performance markets, rather than the only partnership market, as is currently the case – of the obligation to reserve part of the execution for small businesses. Members of the GDR Group have won some pretty victories, whether by having Articles 16 ter, 26 bis, 38 and 42 ter deleted, or about parliamentary delegations overseas, insurance or reclamation of mining sites. Personally, I am pleased to have shook the coconut tree in a special committee and thus allowed the acceleration of the timetable for the reform of the mining code, a measure still promised, but still postponed since 2011. However, this reform, which does not seem to be of much interest to the Prime Minister, is of paramount importance to Guyana: in addition to the fact that the mine still represents the third sector of our economy, with too little impact, mining legislation no longer meets the latest environmental and participatory democracy requirements. I therefore welcome the commitment of the Minister for the Green Transition and the Minister for Overseas Affairs, on whom I hope we can count on a text that will make it possible to reconcile the best security of the sector and the protection of our natural heritage. Here ends the list of reasons for satisfaction, which remains very meagre compared to the reasons for concern. How can we endorse a text which, under the guise of "enhancing the legal certainty of the promoters of industrial projects", violently attacks the principles of participatory democracy and the protection of environmental interests? In fact, this text brings us back by two decades, nothing less! You could have, Madam Minister, the Deputy Minister, tried to make it easier for the most vulnerable citizens to have access to their rights and to put an end to the red tape that penalizes those of us who most need help. You could have tried to support small businesses more so that they could benefit from the accompanying measures taken by the greedy multinationals who rule without sharing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the contrary, you have preferred to weaken the action of the State and increasingly deregulate in the service of financial interests. In concrete terms, this text, which weakens public consultation procedures, will allow industrialists to start work that could damage the environment even before obtaining prior authorisations. Thus, for some projects, the prefect will be able to choose in a completely arbitrary manner between a public inquiry and a participation procedure. What, moreover, is to say about the threshold of the formalities for the award of public works contracts, increased to 100 000 euros? As we can imagine, it is obviously the door open to all the drifts... Similarly, adding the general interest as a case of recourse to an over-the-counter contract will certainly allow public purchasers to decide for themselves to derogate from the procedures, given the wide field opened by the interpretation of the very concept of the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] You went so far as to take advantage of an amendment by our Norman colleagues, who called for more transparency on industrial risks, to strengthen the right to business secrecy... You had to think about it! Those who still had some illusions about your desire to serve the general interest understood, when they learned that these measures were immediately welcomed by the national management of the MEDEF, that they had to get rid of them. There is reason to be concerned because, far from securing the project promoters, the measures you propose will increase the already intense tensions between the industrialists and a population that sees its health and environment increasingly threatened. For all these reasons, the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left refuse to endorse this undertaking to destroy the safeguards put in place by the legislators who preceded us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u74	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u75	ASAP is an English acronym that means "as soon as possible," and I see it as a good augury for our bill to accelerate and simplify public action, as long as it is expected. It is a quality text, thanks to the constructive exchanges between the Senate and the Assembly. It will mark the French legislation...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u76	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u77	It's historical!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u78	...even if he could be described as a tote. It is true that the text is as rich as it is full, but if it touches on so many areas, if it has gone from 50 to 160 articles, it is because it is the result of intense work by parliamentarians, whose role is to provide answers to the expectations and difficulties of our fellow citizens. In addition, there has been a new imperative, that of recovery, in an unpredictable context of a health crisis. I would like to thank the rapporteur Guillaume Kasbarian, the text managers Sophie Beaudouin-Hubière and Vincent Thiébaut, my fellow Members, as well as the minister and the minister delegate, for the fruitful collaboration that allowed us to reach this concluding CMP. The work of Members has been respected and valued by the Special Committee. It translates into numerous measures that will simplify the administrative procedures of the French, facilitate the lives of companies, or accelerate the plans to install and expand sites, without reducing our environmental requirements. The great national debate revealed the expectations of the French in terms of public action. All told us – our fellow citizens, mayors, entrepreneurs, farmers... – they deplore the time lost in endless procedures and procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u79	The State protects. Procedures, standards, it's protection!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u80	The French administration needs to modernize on the basis of two principles: trust and simplification. In this regard, the ESSOC law – a law for a State serving a trustworthy society – is a first step. In the same spirit, the ASAP law goes even further to improve public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u81	You're ruining her! You make it disappear, like democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u82	Thus, various advisory commissions that were far removed from the public, were inoperative and slowed down decisions. We will also bring users' administrations closer together to reach 99% of individual administrative decisions at the local level. In order to facilitate industrial establishment, companies will benefit from numerous procedural simplifications. In addition, several levers contributing to the energy transition will promote the development of renewable energies. In order to boost the economy and investment during the crisis, we have also introduced several important – but provisional – flexibilities to the public order code, such as the waiver of procedure for reasons of general interest, or the raising of the exemption threshold for public works contracts to 100000 euros. On a daily basis, many provisions will improve the coverage of our citizens by public services, particularly in the field of health. The crisis of the covid-19 revealed the usefulness of new practices: among other examples, the shared medical record will be accessible to occupational health services, and pharmacists in institutions will be allowed to renew treatments. In the areas of health and social medicine, cooperation protocols between professionals will be relaxed, the online sale of medicines will be facilitated and early childhood care will be simplified. Many other measures will make our daily lives easier. For example, a parental declaration will be enough to register a minor child for a sporting activity – no need for a medical certificate! Similarly, it will no longer be necessary to submit a proof of domicile in order to apply for an identity document; registration for the examination of the driving licence may be made on the Internet; modest households will no longer need to file their tax notices to open a savings booklet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u83	That's historical!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u84	While I welcome all these great advances, I have a regret. The National Assembly wanted to allow real estate lenders to change borrower insurance at any time, but it was a blocking point with the Senate. We nevertheless found a compromise during the CMP, so that the consumer is precisely informed – on paper or on another durable medium – of the dates and modalities for the termination of his contract. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am sure that this text will mark a turning point for our country. The ASAP law makes simplicity, accessibility and proximity rhyme. It combines transparency and trust, and lightens the administrative mile that weighs on public action. There is broad consensus on the vast majority of the measures in the text. The elected members of the La République group will vote for this excellent law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u85	Yes, a historical law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u86	I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on it as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u87	Mr Rémi Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u88	We are all aware of the interest of this bill; It aims at an ambitious goal and reflects a commendable initiative of the Government. Simplification and acceleration, these words resonate in the minds of our fellow citizens, and reflect efficiency and performance. However, the original bill was denatured during its consideration. From 50 to 160 items – the best being the enemy of the good – it has become a tote, which hinders its readability. We regret that some of its aspects have not resulted in an impact assessment. However, an agreement was reached in CMP. This is to be welcomed, and the two rapporteurs are to be congratulated for coming a long way towards each other in order to satisfy the will of the two assemblies to reach an agreement. The text contains some interesting points: Article 30b introduces administrative expulsion measures in case of squatting of residence, while Article 44 raises the threshold of resale at loss – an essential measure. The agricultural profession had mobilized heavily on the supervision of promotions, in volume and value, and the raising of the threshold of resale at a loss; the testing of these devices will be continued until April 2023. I am pleased that the CMP has adopted our Assembly's position on this issue, because, as the National Federation of Agricultural Trade Unions has pointed out, the objective of the EGALIM Act must be met and every effort must be made to improve the remuneration of each link in the agri-food sector. The reduction and facilitation of administrative constraints relating to the installation and extension of industrial sites, as well as to the construction of water storage facilities, are in the right direction. The CMP has also reached an agreement on the change in borrower insurance – an issue of freedom and information. Thus, Article 42 bis sets the expiry date of the termination on the anniversary date of the signature of the loan offer, and establishes the duty to inform the lender. On the other hand, the Republican Group cannot share any other measures in the bill, either as a result of the CMP or as part of the original text. The place of elected representatives is thus minimized in certain procedures, in favour of the prefects. We do not express any mistrust of the latter, but we believe that the elected representatives – the mayors in particular – are best placed to appreciate a particular situation in their territory. In our lengthy debate on the establishment of wind farms, for example, it became clear that the municipal councils were best able to express the level of acceptability of wind turbines by their population. I come to the amendments to the rules applicable to NFB staff, to which President Mélenchon referred earlier. The position of the Senate, which had recently accepted the Government's request for authorization in this area, was largely our preference, rather than that of the CMP. In addition, the driving apprenticeship contract establishes and confirms distortions of competition between physical and on-line car-schools. Articles 39 and 39 bis, which allow all students to carry out the initial assessment remotely, raise major safety issues. The relaxation of the conditions for the award of certain public contracts, by way of derogation, is a measure of common sense in the current context of an economic crisis. However, many economic operators affected by the crisis will not be able to access public order. There is therefore a need for strict control over the determination of the public interest motive for public procurement. Therefore, in spite of the few useful aspects of this bill, the elected members of the Republicans group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u89	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u90	I would like to commend the rapporteur for his outstanding work and for the spirit he has shown throughout the discussion of the text. I would also like to thank you, Madam Minister and Minister Delegate, for the listening you have shown; It has allowed us to have calmed discussions and to make constructive progress. Finally, thank you for the clarity with which you presented the amendments, explaining precisely, for everyone, what was acceptable and what was not. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and Related Democrats welcomes the fact that an agreement has been reached in the CMP; the challenge was great, given the number of articles to discuss. The CMP's outcome reflects the desire of the two assemblies to move forward on simplification – in the National Assembly, in any case, we have always strived to improve and enrich the paths opened by our honourable senators, who have considered the text first. The CMP agreement is a positive sign for all those waiting for simplification measures. No one here will deny me: our fellow citizens regularly inform us of the difficulties they face in certain administrative procedures; entrepreneurs are subject to procedures that are too long to develop their activities as they wish; mayors and local elected officials are struggling to apply certain standards, particularly with regard to the investment and operation of public services. The ASAP law was therefore essential. Thanks to the work of the two assemblies, we have obtained a first series of important simplifications. Without going back to everything – the previous speakers have already mentioned the main ones – I will stress how essential it is for our citizens who apply for identity papers, a driver's licence or a registration certificate. This has been pointed out on several occasions: it will also be possible to register online for the driver's licence examination. Another provision is of great importance – it concerns 40% of the French –: the simplified access to the popular savings booklet, of which it is known that it ensures a much better return on investments than the other booklets. These include housing squatting measures or measures that simplify the lives of farmers. I will not go any further, Mr Delatte having already mentioned them. On behalf of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats, I welcome the adoption of amendments that we have tabled. One of them, concerning the simplification of the use of energy cheques in EHPADs, was of particular interest to me. It is the fruit of two years of work. This measure not only tends to introduce a necessary simplification, it eliminates inequality: so far, energy cheques could be used by some EHPADs but not by others, depending on their status – a ridiculous and incomprehensible situation for those who held them but could not use them. We have removed this inequality, and we have made sure that the state keeps its word when it gives an energy check: the beneficiary will be able to use it, and its purchasing power will be improved. Similarly, it is thanks to an amendment by our group that the medical diagnoses performed in schools will be recorded in the shared medical record of the children. These advances remain a drop of water in the ocean of simplifications that remain to be led. Our group has often insisted on the need to conduct this exercise several times in the course of the legislature – I would even say, once a year. Like the spring of the evaluation, we could create a spring of simplification, to move forward every year and provide our citizens with the answers they expect. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] All of us here are also actors in simplification. How often do we add complexity to our amendments, including by introducing measures that should be included elsewhere in a text? We must take as a compass the circular of 26 June 2017, which asks that the creation of any new standard lead to the deletion or simplification of two other standards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u91	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u92	The particularly heterogeneous nature of the measures contained in this text makes it difficult to understand, as has already been said. Moreover, it raises the question of the constitutionality of a large number of proposed measures, as the horde of legislative riders is imposing. If it is a simplification, what we all agree with is that it must be done over the course of the water, and first and foremost at the heart of the administrations. The Government has made a significant contribution to inflationary frenzy by tabling no less than forty amendments to the additional article, since the first reading in the Senate, for a text that initially had fifty articles. We do not question the possibility for the Government to propose additional articles, but the fact that it produces almost a bis text by extracting itself through it from its obligations under article 39 of the Constitution in terms of impact assessment and advice from the State Council is a problem for us. This is all the more problematic when the Government proposes to create a completely new exceptional system of public order, without any impact assessment, on the basis of the most succinct arguments. With regard to public procurement, we strongly fear that the loosening of the rules on advertising thresholds will open the door to an upsurge in corruption, so much will be the freedom given to public buyers. Even more than respect for procedures and the Government's method, we are deeply concerned about the substance of many provisions of the text. As I have mentioned, we have no evidence to assess the consequences of Article 44d, which provides for numerous derogations in the field of public procurement, or the new perennial arrangements relating to exceptional circumstances. We fear the cumulative effect of the environmental and urban provisions of this bill. We do not understand that a few months after the submission of the report on the Lubrizol plant disaster, your first legislative action is to simplify the procedures and regulations relating to installations classified for the protection of the environment. Let us take these measures in detail. The ability of prefects to authorize the commencement of certain work before the completion of environmental assessments is not acceptable. You agree that such work would be carried out at the expense and risk of the project promoters, and that this obviously does not prejudge operating authorisations. However, you forget that what can cause irreversible damage to the environment can, for example, simply be the road to the settlement. Worse: Pressure will then be exerted on the prefect, whose propensity is known not to wave. Environmental impacts will be increasingly difficult to assess, while section 23 makes it possible for environmental studies to be sausageed. Apart from the fact that this article is contrary to European Union law, everyone understands that the environmental impact of a project or site can only be truly measured by integrating all impacts and externalities. We could count on our fellow citizens to act as whistleblowers on these issues, but you have also decided to restrict this role, by simplifying public consultation procedures in several areas or by limiting them to digital consultation: citizens will wonder what they are doing there, and that is certainly the aim. They will consider that everything is being done and will turn away from the procedure. Thus, in Article 24a, you reduce from four to two months the period during which the right of initiative may be exercised in the absence of prior consultation. We have defended in vain a number of amendments to delete these articles which, under the guise of simplification, lead to an environmental and democratic setback which we cannot endorse. Let us not forget, Madam Minister, the Minister Delegate, to do the pedagogy of complexity. Citizens are able to understand the requirements of a project. Some amendments had been adopted against the opinion of the rapporteur and the Government, which was a sign of malaise among the majority. Others were rejected only by a handful of votes. Of course, not everything is to be thrown into your bill. Many proposals for simplification go, as has been said, in the right direction, and we agree with them, some of which lead to the lapse of certain bodies, while others are the result of the report given to the Prime Minister by our rapporteur. However, the minister, the minister delegate, the rapporteur, you will have understood that too many provisions are unfavourable in terms of democracy and the environment. The Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote, with great regret, against this bill and we will also refer the matter to the Constitutional Council so that the provisions which we consider unconstitutional by their nature or procedure of adoption may be removed from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u93	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u94	As a result of excessive caution, our laws and other procedures have become more and more talkative over the years, demanding that our citizens take heavy steps to obtain the simple application of their rights. The result is a feeling of dissatisfaction with public action, which prevails both among our citizens and among companies and local and regional authorities. The ASAP law addresses this immense French problem. It certainly does not do so perfectly and could do more, but it has the merit of doing so seriously. First of all, the Action Together Group welcomes the agreement reached by the CMP last Wednesday. If it has been made at the price of certain concessions, on which I shall return, many measures will simplify the daily lives of the French. In this regard, I welcome the fully constructive attitude of the rapporteur, Guillaume Kasbarian, who was able to listen and understand in our debates. This allows the territorial administration to be brought closer together by deconcentrating administrative decisions that will now be taken by the prefects. At the same time, it simplifies many small formalities that aggravate and irritate our fellow citizens on a daily basis. In addition, several advisory commissions are grouped together, or even abolished, in the continuity of the rationalization work already carried out on this field. This text also facilitates the lives of enterprises by speeding up procedures for industrial installations and the relocation of employment to the territories. The ASAP bill is therefore not only a piece of administrative simplification, but it also incorporates the national strategy of the recovery plan by releasing the initiative and removing the constraints on our companies so that the tens of billions of euros put on the table really bear fruit. The discussions in the special committee and in the meeting also enriched the text. In particular, they have enabled us to tackle, with the adoption of the amendment tabled by the rapporteur, the revolting problem of squat, which has made the headlines in full discussion of the text. We also welcome the relaxation of the rules on public order, as well as the raising of the threshold for exemption from advertising and competition for the conclusion of public works contracts to EUR 100000. These are all measures that will further liberate the energies in our territories. In another area, we welcome the extension of testing on the threshold of lost resale of food products. Our farmers have suffered too long from certain commercial strategies and this mechanism seems to have a positive effect on their remuneration. Finally, our group is pleased to have been able to make concrete contributions to this text – I am thinking in particular of our amendment aimed at assessing the normative burden in the field of the Ministry of National Education, the one aimed at strengthening the information of mayors about the installation of wind turbines in their communes or the one aimed at strengthening consumer information on the possibility of resorting to counter-expertise in the event of a dispute. The ASAP bill provides practical simplification solutions in a particularly varied number of areas. However, it is essential not to see it as an end in itself: ASAP should only be the beginning of the great task of accelerating and simplifying the procedures of everyday life. In this regard, we regret that the amendment on the termination at any time of the borrower's insurance, which I had worn and which we had adopted both in the special committee and in the National Assembly, was deleted by the CMP. This simplification provision was, however, much expected both by individuals and by competition. Moreover, it would have had a concrete impact on the purchasing power of the French at no additional cost to the State. Nevertheless, this text remains a real step forward and opens up new opportunities for simplification. Let us not be afraid to innovate in this area. The idea of a regular ASAP, designed to revise, for example, every five years, the procedures and formalities that affect our daily lives, is a question that really needs to be asked. Thus, in view of the progress it is making, the Group of the European People's Party will obviously vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u95	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u96	On behalf of the IDU and independent group, I can only congratulate us on our desire to speed up and simplify public action. The too great complexity of the French public system has often been recalled during our debates and we have all been seized, in our constituencies or elsewhere, of arrests denouncing it. We therefore welcome the abolition or merger of certain administrative commissions and the desired paradigm shift for a supervisory and accompaniment administration. However, we must not forget that one of the causes of this complexity is legislative inflation, and this obliges us to take it into account in our daily lives and not forget that, in order to solve a specific problem, we often risk adding another stone to this gigantic building of complexity. Let us recall this sentence of Montesquieu in the Spirit of Laws, which must be the guiding thread of all logic in this field: "The unnecessary laws weaken the necessary laws. » Motivated by the best intentions in the world, we have been able to aggravate the problem that we are seeking to solve in part through this bill. It must be noted that we did not necessarily set an example with this largely amended text, from 50 to 160 articles, including the addition by the Government of numerous provisions without impact assessment or advice from the Council of State. It has been noted several times in our discussions that we could have carried out differentiated and in-depth reforms on certain points of this bill. I am thinking in particular of the catimini abolition of INHESJ, the National Institute of Advanced Studies in Security and Justice, the delicate subject of wind energy or the reform of the NFB. On this and other points, it is regrettable that the Senate's proposals have not been taken more into account by the Joint Joint Committee, which makes us to a large extent find the text of the lower house. However, I would like to welcome the retention of the two amendments by my colleague Thierry Benoit on mass distribution, which came from the committee of inquiry which he chaired. These amendments provide an example of the proper integration of committees of inquiry into the legislative process. On the whole, the IDU and independent group is in favour of this text, which has been worked out at length by our institutions. We hope that, within its scope, it will effectively improve the daily lives of the French, reduce the delays in the administration and bring it closer to our citizens. I would add to the conclusion that, even after the enactment of this law, we will have to remain attentive because, from the letter to its practical application on the ground, the gap can be significant. We will have to follow closely the implementing decrees. Similarly, digital and generational divides may reduce the actual effectiveness of this law. It will therefore be necessary for the actors concerned to be able to take ownership of the reform and to make it their own. This condition is necessary for its success.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u97	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u98	Such as Sisyphus, the administration and the public authorities seem condemned to pursue in vain a quest for simplification. This government is no exception: the August 2018 ESSOC Act succeeds the ASAP bill. Let us be clear: it is not with an English acronym that you will really tackle the French administrative maelstrom. This title will not help the French to take into account a law of this nature. ASAP: "As soon as possible". What emergency? What results? What action have you finally succeeded in implementing? You choose to remove or merge a few advisory commissions, deconcentrate certain administrative decisions or dematerialize them, relax rights and harden others, but you do not tackle the root of the problem: normative inflation. You do not, with this text, meet the real expectations of the citizens of the intermediate bodies, who want to finally implement a real shock of simplification. As a result, this bill is more like an inventory at the Prévert – which is certainly a very great poet, but not a political one – when it demonstrates a political will to make public action understandable. Worse: By confusing simplification and regression, you're doing an environmental sap job. Section 25, for example, planes the scope of the public inquiry and allows the prefect to prefer a 30-day online consultation for any project requiring an application for authorization without an environmental assessment. You seem to forget that almost one in five French people still suffer from the digital divide. Nor can we accept your recourse to a second deliberation to reconsider the deletion of this article, even though members of your majority were convinced of its illegitimacy – it must be constantly recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u100	Another concern is that Article 23 introduces an environmental assessment principle, an operation-by-operation approach, to analyse the impacts of new industrial projects without taking into account the prior existence of nearby facilities. The tragedy of Lubrizol and others, alas, reveal the chain of risk that ultimately leads to the accident. It is not possible to perform operations by operation. All these measures would be taken at the risk of not integrating the cumulative effects of a particular project on the environment. As for the article which allows the Prefect, in some cases, to authorize the early launch of certain construction works before the decision on environmental authorization is taken, it opens the way for irreversible damage to the environment. You will have removed here a lizard, there the little frog of a pond, to implement an industrial project or a development project; How will you make them reappear if the environmental authorisation decision alerts you to their existence? These are just a few examples of a worrying disconnection of the right of the environment to work in Title II. Other articles ask us questions or even worries us. This is the case of the one who gives police powers to private law employees of the NFB – I can't go back because our colleague Jean-Luc Mélenchon talked about it. Other strong measures in the ASAP bill – as soon as possible – include a mechanism that adapts the law of public procurement to enable the continuation of procurement procedures and the execution of contracts in the event of a new crisis. In a period of upheaval such as the health crisis that we are going through, it is certainly necessary to speed up the award of public contracts, even if we do not want to compete, but I regret that this article, like many others, was introduced by means of a government amendment currently under discussion. ASAP: as soon as possible, i.e. always in emergency and not in co-construction. By doing so, you have deprived us, on this sensitive subject as on others, of an impact assessment. However, we would have gained from being informed about the risks of renewed corruption, such as public procurement. We could also have co-built and accompanied you in relation to certain environmental and social requirements, in line with the action of Secretary of State Olivia Grégoire. Nevertheless, we stress some positive points, such as the agreement reached in CMP concerning the consent of the subregional chambers of agriculture to the establishment of regional chambers of agriculture, or the legal security of the article aimed at improving the legal effectiveness of the administrative procedure for the expulsion of persons occupying illegal housing. As for the articles introduced in session to combat the abuses of international purchasing centres and to regulate logistical penalties, we hope that they will make it possible to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u101	Thank you, Congressman...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u102	Unfortunately, as these few measures are residual and, in short, derisory with regard to the infringements of environmental law, I will vote, like a large majority of my group, against this bill; Another part of the group felt that it should support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u103	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u104	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u105	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 156 Number of votes cast 139 Absolute majority 70 For adoption 102 Against 37
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u106	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u107	Allow me to briefly provide some answers to the speakers in the general discussion, not to extend the meeting but to recall some points that we have already discussed widely – and which still seem to give rise to misunderstanding. Yes, Mrs Untermaier, the simplification process is an ongoing process, which we are trying to do best in the context of the laws ESSOC, ELAN – Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development – and PACTE – Law on Business Growth and Transformation – but also in the regulatory field. This bill is a good example since it has been the subject of a large number of parliamentary amendments; The debate in the Joint Joint Committee took a very long time and covered sixty articles, which allowed senators to make corrections to the text. I salute this republican and democratic work. A quarter of the text is devoted to the issue of the environment; It is therefore difficult to make riders of these provisions. No article of this bill is contrary to European law. The text has been reread by the Council of State and has been the subject of several evaluations. It is wrong to say that we are saving the projects – this is not the case with the article in question. No work authorization may be granted if it has an irreversible impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u108	Ask the associations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u109	The confusion is sometimes well maintained between the authorization of work and the authorization to operate the final construction. The work is subject to the granting of a building permit following an environmental debate. I would add that 85% of the projects for which prefects have the opportunity to make a digital consultation do not receive any comments from citizens, not because they do not have access to the procedure but because they are simple installations such as wood storage areas or vertical silos. Let us not caricature this text, which in no way diminishes the law of the environment and the standards we have set.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u110	You're accusing me of caricature, but you're the one who caricatures!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u111	We're not going to debate again! That's a vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u112	I say it because it is factual and it is necessary to speak of the truth as it is rather than to contradict it. All this has nothing to do with Lubrizol...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u113	Allow me to interrupt, Madam Deputy Minister: you cannot respond to all the interventions in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u114	Either way, I'll go real fast. The recovery plan contains measures concerning the timber sector, on which MP Anne-Laure Cattelot has drawn up a report; I'll send you back. I would remind Mr Serville that we are working on the mining code and that a number of texts are under consideration on this subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is not for democracy to move forward that we do not take responsibility, especially at such a time as this, for measures that are useful to the French and that we have drawn up with the sole compass the employment of the French, the preservation of their rights and their protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u115	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u116	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u117	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u118	We discuss the examination of credits for school education (No. 3399, Annex 24; No. 3459, Volume II). Mrs Osson, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u119	The context in which I have the honour to report, on behalf of the Committee on Finance, the school education budget, the nation's first budget, is particular: the pandemic has changed our collective outlook for the year 2020, and recent events have highlighted the major role of teachers. [[Applause]] Naturally, I cannot go any further without recalling, with emotion, the memory of Samuel Paty, professor of history-geography and civic and moral education, who was cowardly shot down on October 16. On behalf of all of you, I address our affectionate, moved and resolute thoughts to his family and loved ones. National education staff, especially in school education, were particularly mobilized during the period of confinement. I would like to express my deep gratitude to them. This recognition that we owe them cannot, of course, be limited to words – this finance bill demonstrates this. Thus, 400 million euros, and even 500 million if we count in full year, will be spent on raising the salaries of national education staff: this is an important step forward of which we can be proud. The promise of social justice is at the heart of this budget. If we correct the inequalities of destiny from school onwards, we will be able to give schoolchildren who have become citizens the chance to realize themselves, even beyond what their dreams allow them to hope for. In three years, we have strengthened and even doubled the time of compulsory education, thanks in particular to the law for a school of trust: from 6 to 16 years ago, today education, tomorrow education, is and will be compulsory from 3 to 18 years. We have already begun to limit the number of pupils in the classes of CP and CE1 to twenty-four; We'll amplify it. We will continue the duplication of classes in the REP zones – priority education network – and REP+; Above all, we will extend it to major kindergarten sections in priority education areas. For all this, this budget provides for the creation of no less than 2,000 jobs in the first degree. There is will, there is ambition, there is also and above all pragmatism and the reality of means, because the school cannot suffer from political discourse. Only acts count, and we are at the rendezvous of these acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u120	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u121	This budget also devotes the increase in the means of teaching and the creation of additional places in the second degree – the equivalent of 1000 additional teaching posts, which will allow the increase of places in the BTS, again next year, and the continuation of efforts to offer "CAP three years" courses to some of the students who were already undergoing this training at the beginning of the health crisis. Today's school – and especially tomorrow's school – is inclusive. In 2021, we will increase by EUR 250 million the funding allocated to support students with disabilities, bringing funding for this priority to more than EUR 3.3 billion. Thanks to this ongoing effort, of which we can be proud, we will recruit, at the beginning of the 2021 school year, 4000 new FTEs of accompanying students with disabilities – AESH – we will continue the deployment of the localized inclusive support hubs – PIAL – and we will continue the development of local units for school inclusion – ULIS. In conclusion, I would like to raise two issues on which I think it would be useful to draw your attention. In our country, agricultural education is attended by more than 138,000 students, 35,000 students and 35,000 apprentices. It is one of the most dynamic areas of integration in the labour market in France. The health crisis has considerably increased the difficulties of this sector, on the one hand to ensure educational continuity – for obvious reasons, "class at home" is not always possible – and on the other hand to offer a diversified education. These difficulties were already the result of the very large declines in financial resources resulting from the general review of public policies in 2007 and, to a lesser extent, from the modernisation of public action in 2012. I will defend in a few minutes an amendment aiming at a gradual but lasting catch-up of the resources allocated to this education. Finally, our times, in addition to the pandemic, have strengthened what the economist Keynes called in his time "radical uncertainty" and which popular common sense calls "visional navigation". In terms of education, our record attests to our credibility, but I still believe, Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport, that it would be time to discuss a multi-year education programming bill. This text would certainly bring serenity and tranquillity to all national education staff, who love their profession and who ask for only one thing, continue to exercise it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I have dedicated my life to teaching, to which I will certainly return once I fulfill my mission on these benches. But I want to tell you with the utmost lucidity and, above all, the greatest sincerity: when I return, I will exercise my profession with the irremediable pride of having defended budgets like that of 2021. These budgets are constantly increasing, embodying in every line what all teachers and national education staff are firmly convinced of: our duty to give every child of the Republic, wherever he or she is on our soil, the chance to realize himself or herself as an individual.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u122	Mrs Cécile Rilhac, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u123	First of all, I would like to remind you that this year's review of the school education budget takes place in a very specific context: that of the health crisis, to which there is also an abominable terrorist attack. We need to be with teachers and national education staff to accompany and support them – it also goes through the budget. The health crisis that we are experiencing has shown the importance of digital education, both in its material and educational aspects. Its development should lead to an improvement in learning conditions and the monitoring of pupils' education, both in rural and urban areas, thus contributing to the republican imperative of equal access to education. With regard to the 2021 budget for the "School education" mission, I will not recall the figures that our Special Rapporteur has just mentioned. I just want to confirm that this budget is again on a downward path this year. To our critics, to those who continue to say that the Government and the majority are mistreating our school, I would like to make a few reminders. Who has increased the national education budget by 4.5 billion euros in three years? Who has increased the inclusive school budget by 60% in three years? Who has introduced an annual premium of 3000 euros for teachers in the reinforced priority education networks? Who created 2000 jobs in primary education again this year, despite the demographic decline? It's this majority and this government! Let us say this: this budget is commensurate with the ambitions of the school of the Republic. It shows that the Government still views education as a priority and youth as the future of the country. It will finalise the deployment of the measures undertaken and initiate a plan to upgrade the salaries of national education staff. The year 2020-2021 sees the further implementation of the reforms. Among them, the reception of students with disabilities has been improved by the deployment of PIALs. These poles allow a reversal of the logics: the student's companion in a situation of disability is now recruited beforehand and waits for the student in his or her school, avoiding the latter from losing precious days of schooling. At the beginning of the 2021 school year, 77502 full-time equivalents from AESH will allow more than half of the 360,000 children with disabilities to attend school. In addition to these special aids, the education assistants participate fully in the education of pupils, in the framework of the activities carried out by the school life services, in collaboration with the teachers. The law for a school of trust created pre-professionalization contracts. These contracts allow Bachelor 2 students to discover the professions of education, especially those of teaching. The aim is to recruit 3,000 new apprentices in 2021. The duplication of CP and EC1 classes in priority education networks has been completed. Similarly, the large section classes, CP and CE1 are capped at twenty-four pupils in a large part of the territory. However, this limitation in the number of pupils must not, by means of a communicating vessel effect, lead to an increase in the number of pupils in the other classes. Vigilance is more than necessary in certain places with high population density, as in my department of Val-d'Oise. The budget also provides for an effort by the State to assist national education staff. A budget of EUR 400 million is earmarked for a salary revalorisation, the modalities of which are currently being discussed with the organisations representing the staff. In this regard, I would like to return to the situation of school principals. As you know, minister, this is a subject that I am particularly interested in. I welcome the award of an exceptional bonus of 450 euros to reward their commitment. For my part, I believe that this important measure must be sustained. You also issued a circular in August on their duties and working conditions; This document is in line with my proposed law and pushes for the recognition of a true role as school principal. I am therefore pleased with the announced, much-anticipated re-evaluation on the ground. The school of the Republic cannot adequately meet the expectations of students, families and the nation if its staff is not trained and valued. Teachers as well as all staff form the heart and body of our school institution. A programming law would make it possible to continue the effort undertaken in this budget, giving a clear framework and a multi-year perspective to all these staff. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The school of the Republic is the crucible of the nation of tomorrow. It trains our children to become autonomous, responsible and enlightened women and men in order to build a France that is ever more just and respectful of our republican values. With this budget, we will have more than ever the means to act to meet the challenges of the present and build the united and prosperous society of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u124	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u125	More than ever, the hopes placed in the school of the Republic are great because the stakes and difficulties are immense. I cannot, of course, speak of school today without mentioning the abhorrent murder of Samuel Paty, a victim of Islamist terrorism, who died for teaching freedom of expression and the values of our Republic. As the President of the Republic has said, Samuel Paty will remain the face of the school of our Republic in what is most beautiful and noble. As a former professor of history-geography, as a Member of Parliament, as a citizen, I can only be touched, upset and even revolted. It is vital to fight fanaticism, totalitarianism of any kind. Today, however, civic education courses are no longer enough. It is necessary to teach secularism in a specific course, to all students of France, so that the principles of the Republic are no longer called into question. Above all, it is necessary to support our teachers, who are increasingly feeling deconceived, both in school and in society. We need a national education close to its staff, a system that no longer anonymizes teachers, but on the contrary is supportive, grateful and attentive. The ancient and underground doctrine of "no wave", which I have known in national education, must cease, because it is a poison.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u126	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u127	I recognize your voluntarism in this area, minister, but the administration sometimes persists in its small and great cowardice. Let us agree that the school education budget, which will still reach EUR 53.6 billion in 2021, is a first step in this direction. The Libertés et Territoires Group welcomes the increase in appropriations, in particular the €400 million allocation for salary adjustments. While French teachers are among the least well paid in Europe, it is indeed more than urgent to catch up with our delay, even if the way in which this announcement is implemented remains to be determined. In the end, the budget for 2021 is a continuation of the reforms undertaken since the beginning of the quinquennium, with a priority placed on the first level, a strengthening of the inclusive school and a particular focus on priority education. On all these aspects, we recognize improvements. I am thinking, for example, of the benefits of a ceiling of twenty-four pupils per grade in the main kindergarten section, in CP and in CE1, as well as of the duplication of classes in the REPs and REP+. However, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that the increase in posts in the first degree is effected by redeployment of 1800 posts abolished in secondary education. The argument of a demographic decline to come in the colleges and high schools that you put forward does not seem audible to us, especially when you compensate these redeployments for overtime. In doing so, you do not contribute to improving the working conditions of teachers, even though secondary education is just as crucial in the life and career of the pupil as primary education. Another regret remains with the AESH: in 2021, you will open 4000 new positions, which will be added to the 8,000 created for this new year, but what about their remuneration? An effort is expected, failing which we will not entirely remedy the lack of attractiveness of this profession, which is essential to accommodate students with disabilities. Finally, I want to say a few words about the special year of 2020. The covid-19 epidemic has upset our schools. This crisis is going to last. We have to deal with it and provide support to teachers. I would also like to mention the need to give additional resources to school medicine, because the departments are increasingly struggling to recruit – we have tabled an amendment to that effect. For all these reasons, the vast majority of members of the Freedom and Territory Group will not be able to support the credits of the School Education Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u128	Even the deputy for Wallis-et-Futuna?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u129	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u130	Since it is a question of school education and the minister has studied philosophy, I will place my speech under the auspice of the reproduction of Raphael's painting which overlooks the gallery, The School of Athens. Nearly 2500 years ago Plato, whose figure is in the centre, was already ironing against the corrupting sophists who, by subtle and subtle palabres, made the discourse and the truth separate. It seems, Mr Minister, that you are the worthy heir of the Gorgias et al., with your communication and the effects of your sleeves that are standing back from the experience experienced by a majority of the educational community. Indeed, the famous priority given to primary education, valid in principle, serves as a showcase to hide a sad reality. Thus the classes split into REPs suffer from the total absence of specialized masters and AESH. However, the difficulty of schooling is not reducible to the question of numbers alone. What about the 80% of non-PRE students, who are also deprived of these specialist RASED staff, the specialized support networks for students in difficulty? In short, to undress Pierre to dress Paul, this is the end of your policy, which is exercised in particular to the detriment of secondary school: while more than 23,000 additional students are expected on the benches of colleagues and high schools, there are almost 1800 less positions in the second degree – not to mention the purging of previous years. Of course, you are gratifying this chronic deficit of supervision by resorting to mandatory overtime – up to 2500 full-time equivalents this year. However, in 2013, these teachers, some of whom said they were dropouts, were already working on average almost forty-one hours a week. So, exploiting the assassination of Samuel Paty sordidly, it is claimed that the teachers of this country are pampered. Chosen, our teachers, whose salary, for the statutory ones, is almost 18% below the OECD average, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development? Your so-called revalorisation is indeed a masquerade: an increase of just 38,50 euros gross per month – and, for some, a bonus for success! So, Sophism, when you announce the golden fleece and you see the skin of grief coming. While we now recognize the specificity of the profession of these hussards of the Republic, how can we understand the massive use of contract workers to fill permanent posts? They are without initial training to exercise the most beautiful and demanding profession in the world, in the greatest precariousness. Since I'm talking about precariousness, let's talk about the AESHs and that other sophism you're handling about school inclusion. The reality in this area remains the extreme precariousness of accompanying persons paid to the stone launcher, still not titularized and now mutualised in the PIALs by virtue of a purely accounting management of education. It is not surprising that you are struggling to recruit this staff, despite the opening of 4000 additional posts. Sophism again when I hear you gloating about the importance of moral and civil education, while you have rejuvenated the hours of general culture, especially history-geography, in professional high schools,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u131	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u132	... and that you make it impossible everywhere to organize half-groups which, on such subjects, allow the critical appropriation of knowledge. It is not a few flags in the classes that will act as a true republican integration. Sophism always when you talk about freedom of expression when you have never seen so many teachers being summoned and punished for exercising this right about your various reforms and injunctions – pedagogical injunctions that are all obstacles to educational freedom, and managerial injunctions with your normative assessments, considered useless and time-consuming by the teachers. You are also the singer of the public and secular school. However, the budgets of private education are increasing, here to compensate the municipalities for compulsory schooling from the age of three, there for elementary education, again for vocational education. Finally, we know you are annoyed by the phenomenon of "no wave". Yet, if there is a wave that cannot be ignored, it is the wave of the covid-19, which overwhelms schools. In May, you announced lightened groups, finally to ensure, at the end of August, that the school year would be as normal as possible. Beyond sophistry, you practice denial of reality, so that nothing was planned at the beginning of the school year: no class closures challenged and no large-scale recruitment, including to replace sick teachers. Even basic protection tools, gel and masks – possibly toxic – are missing. And you still don't give any answers about school medicine, in disinherence for so many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u133	Get off the masks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u134	It's late October, confinement is likely to spread, and nothing comes. With such a budget, I doubt that the educational community feels pampered when it struggles to feel protected. Some already say that they do not want to die in school. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will not vote for these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u135	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u136	The tragedy experienced by our nation with the assassination of Samuel Paty a few days ago plunged us into fear and continues to shake the content of our debates. What emerges from these discussions is an immense need for teachers and the entire educational community to be listened to, to see their experiences heard and to be recognized in the mastery of their profession. I quoted in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education the call made to that effect by a teacher from a college in my constituency, but I can assure you that many of them want to speak in spaces where what they have to say will really be taken into account. Teachers do not want moral lessons or umpteenth injunctions: they want to be really protected. It is they and they who are faced with the students daily, who reflect every day on how best to transmit a teaching, who know the profiles and personalities of their students. There is a strong feeling that French teachers are demeaning: they are barely 5% who think that their profession is really valued by society – an extremely low rate in Europe. It is time to make very strong commitments to them. It seems to me that the opening Grenelle of the professors will only be of interest if it is preceded by strong commitments on the long-awaited revalorisation of wages. I referred to the betrayed promises in committee; I attributed them to all those who, in recent years, have announced a revalorisation which has never come and which will not be limited to bonuses or overtime. Overall, this budget is highly stable. Some efforts are being made, but when we see the billions fly without compensation for the benefit of large companies, and in view of the immense needs that are felt in education, it is said that they are surely not properly distributed: the real investment of the future is school education, especially since after six months without school, human needs are stronger than ever. In the current period, teams need time and availability for their students. This involves the release of the many administrative tasks which are particularly important for management. Teachers also need time to work as a team: it is necessary to teach the debate, rational reasoning and discussion of the difficult issues of our time. This year, it also implies a reduction of the programmes, which would give teachers the opportunity to adapt their teachings to the situation of their classes and pupils. Such an adaptation of the programmes would not reflect a lesser requirement, but an ambition of equality. This budget extends, once again, a logic of weakening resources in secondary education. However, if I am convinced that primary school must be strengthened – it is a need – we must not do this by abolishing 1,800 posts in secondary school again, at the cost of overcrowded classes in secondary school and high school. The fact that France has a good rate of supervision in relation to the European average is rather good news: let us preserve this situation and improve the rate of supervision in primary education, which is not good. All teachers repeat this: in a class of twenty children, one can collect the students' feedback on their learning and follow them more individually. Beyond twenty students, it's complicated – at thirty, it's impossible mission. On the other hand, you claim to compensate for job deletions by increasing overtime, but we know that this solution does not work and that open hours are largely under-used, because teachers are already spending all their time on their work. Before I conclude, I want to come back to an issue that concerns me: that of the conditions of teaching in prison. I have asked you about this on several occasions, Minister. We have a lot of disagreements, but it seems to me that, in the current period, well-trained and well-paying teachers in prison is a real issue, on which we can join. In view of the lack of an ambitious response to the many expectations of the educational community and the needs of the pupils, and for the reasons mentioned above, the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against the credits of the mission "School education" for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u137	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u138	By allocating the first state budget, which has been steadily increasing since 2017, the Government reaffirms its commitment to making education a priority in order to create a true school of trust. This budgetary effort, we Members of the Republic Group, welcome it all the more since it is a key sector for the future of our society. By investing for our young people, we give ourselves the means to build the contours of a more egalitarian society where everyone has the same rights and opportunities for success; We give hope back to our republican pact. The various budgets of school education voted since 2017 bear witness to this ambition. I am thinking of the priority given to primary school, the creation of posts in the first level, the payment of a bonus to teachers who practise in REP and REP +, the compulsory schooling of children from the age of 3 or the duplication of classes in the REP and REP +. The budget for 2021 does not derogate from the rule. With a 3% increase in the credits of the "School Education" mission, it further enhances the action of our majority in favour of education, reaffirming in particular our ambition for primary school, which must lead to the mastery by all students of the basic knowledge: reading, writing, counting and respecting others. The objective remains to tackle the difficulties at the root. If we do this for all primary school students, then we will achieve the first of the goals of social justice that a country can set itself. Since the first level is the first priority, I welcome the recruitment in the budget for 2021 of 2000 teachers in the first level and the maintenance of all rural schools. This budget also supports one of the Government's most important social justice measures: the reduction of the number of pupils in classes where the basis for learning is laid. The doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 in REP and REP+, which currently affects 300,000 pupils, is consolidated and we are gradually extending this system to 600,000 pupils of the major kindergarten section. With regard to the inclusion of students with disabilities, credits are increasing this year by 9 per cent, bringing the increase to 60 per cent compared to 2017. We welcome these efforts and your determination in this area, which will lead to the EUR 250 million shift on the AESH. Including the 4000 posts budgeted in 2021, the number of AESHs recruited since 2017 will be greater than 20,000. This commitment is crucial because the school of trust is also an inclusive school in which 385,000 children with disabilities will be welcomed at the beginning of 2021. For the current school year, 350 ULIS are created, of which 265 in the second degree, which is another notable effort. Important advances have therefore been made since 2017 and even amplified since 2019 with the law for a school of trust, which not only created the function of referent, but also secure the AESH by allowing their recruitment by contract of three years renewable once. It has also strengthened their continuing training. However, we need to go even further because it is still difficult to recruit AESHs today. Their status, training and remuneration should be improved, although much had been done to that end. I also welcome the creation, through a decree of 23 October 2020, of a function allowance of 600 euros gross per year for the benefit of the reference AESHs. The budget for 2021 commits a salary increase in the teaching profession and a strengthening of the attractiveness of the education professions. This is essential because the investment of national education staff and their primary mission to students deserve the recognition of the nation. In this regard, a significant State effort is planned for national education personnel, both in public and private education. We hope, Minister, that the Grenelle de l'Éducation, which will initiate a profound change in the working conditions of teachers and national education staff, will lead to a better recognition to attract, diversify and value talent. We hope and are convinced, Minister, of your commitment to this matter. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] Of course, we will vote for the credits of the "School Education" mission. This good budget will accompany all students towards success and make the school a place of development and success for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u139	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u140	The budget of the School Education Mission is the highest in the State. Its increase of more than 2 billion euros is welcome as many challenges as the school has to face. Our common objective must be to enable our young people to succeed in their education first and then in their integration into working and social life. Before dealing specifically with various aspects of this mission, allow me to recall the exemplary behaviour of most teachers during the pandemic that is shaking our societies. Indeed, to ensure educational continuity or to maintain the school link, it was necessary to innovate, deploy new solutions and invest more than ever in favour of the most fragile audiences. Some teachers, school principals and school principals have been admirable and still are. Unfortunately, the gaps have widened, which is a real concern. How can we not then mention Samuel Paty's atrocious murder on the eve of the holidays? The educational community needs national solidarity to pay a worthy tribute to a teacher who passionately loved his profession when the Toussaint's holiday comes back at ten o'clock on November 2. In committee, I noted that 2021 could not mark the end of the educational reforms because every day at school is a new beginning. "What saves is taking a step. One more step. It's always the same step we're doing again. In writing these words, did Saint-Exupéry think of school? In any case, there have been reforms before the 2017 one, and there will be more tomorrow. We passed the law for a school of trust in 2019. But today, in a particularly difficult context, trust is no longer at the rendezvous...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u141	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u142	...and 69% of parents are worried. As part of the committee of inquiry on covid-19, a union of heads of schools referred to the exhaustion of 39% of teachers and the agitation of 55% of teachers. Will digital be the panacea for the future? Not sure. The general states of digital education, which took the form of a symposium of specialists, showed the limits of educational digital as well as administrative digital. Minister, the Republican Group has always been in favour of the priority given to primary school, but it is more dubious about the reform of the high school. Our young people need solid scientific training in a society where the manipulation of information is commonplace. From this point of view, mastering fundamentals, including mathematics, is an imperative. In a recent report on guidance, the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee highlighted several weaknesses: insufficient information on job opportunities, lack of knowledge of information tools and, above all, insufficient coordination among the actors involved in guidance. I can therefore only endorse the objectives of the Strasbourg Academy: the information of students on trades and training, the attractiveness of the technological and industrial sectors, and the transformation of the vocational and apprenticeship sectors into channels of excellence. In the face of unemployment and recession, it is also a question of promoting in-company learning and strengthening links with the private sector. The alternance training, which combines employment and education – what the Germans call dual training – offers students a comprehensive view of the world of work. Minister, you have always said that after primary school, vocational education is your second priority. This teaching, which is particularly affected by the crisis, deserves our full attention, especially since we are below the OECD average in this area. I would also like to point out that the Court of Auditors has expressed its disappointment at the conditions for the integration of young people from the labour market into the world of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u143	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u144	Unfortunately, the proposal for a law creating the position of school principal, recently defended by the majority group, has made pschitt. Of course, in the 140 programme, I have raised the credits for the regulatory training of school principals and the exceptional bonus...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u145	That's the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u146	... 450 euros "pending more substantial work on the ministry's social agenda". Let's accept it. We approve of the creation of 4000 AESH positions, as well as the first part of the salary revalorisation. The Grenelle will have to make it possible to continue in this direction. In the coming months, on the occasion of a bill on separatism, we will discuss family education. Lowering the age of compulsory education is likely to pose new challenges for citizens who educate their children – especially those between 3 and 6 years of age – outside of school. It is a matter of avoiding drifts but it will not be easy to separate the right grain from the tare. I conclude by recalling that freedom of education is recognized as a constitutional principle and that education is an ally in the fight against radicalisation and for the protection of republican values. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group will abstain from the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u147	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u148	First of all, the Group of the Movement for Democracy and Related Democrats wishes to assure the teaching world of its full support. The National Assembly is now considering the "School Education" mission of the 2021 Finance Bill. The constancy of the national education budget, the first of the State, confirms the willingness of the Government and the majority to make education one of the quinquennium's priorities. Our group therefore welcomes the increase in the appropriations for this mission, which, with an additional EUR 1.6 billion, will reach EUR 53.6 billion by 2021. While the covid-19 epidemic is experiencing a significant rebound at the end of the year and the health crisis is having worrying economic consequences, this increase in funding will ensure the necessary educational continuity, in particular for the fight against school drop-out. It should also be noted that coordinated actions with local and regional authorities to prevent school leaving continue. In the context of the new school year 2021, the plan of pedagogical continuity defined allowed the introduction of personalized support arrangements. The stakes for 2021 are numerous but the progress already made is significant. I recall the adoption, in 2019, of the law for a school of trust, which included four flagship measures: compulsory education from 3 years old, compulsory training up to 18 years old, pre-recruitment of teachers and the creation of an inclusive public school service. In addition, in the context of the budget for 2021, the creation of more than 2,000 first-degree jobs, an increase in human resources that will facilitate the capping of classes and the extension of the system of double classes to major kindergarten sections in priority education networks and which will protect rural schools from the risk of closure. It is also worth recalling the numerous measures for the inclusion of pupils with disabilities implemented since the beginning of the quinquennium: the reform of the accompanying system with the creation of the AESH, the multiplication of ULIS and the training of teachers. Strongly committed to the reform of the education system, the Group of the Democratic Movement and Related Democrats pays particular attention to the two major objectives of priority education and inclusive education. We therefore applaud the creation, in July 2020, of a State Secretariat for Priority Education entrusted to Nathalie Elimas. Most recently, our group has shown that it has the strength to propose with the publication of our colleague Erwan Balanant's report on school harassment, which makes 120 proposals for the protection of children in the school environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u149	Very good report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u150	We all agree that the psychological and physical health of students is paramount. The 7% increase in funding for the 230 "Student Life" program, which highlights the importance of a school that is attentive to their health, should be welcomed. Our group will be defending a constructive amendment on school medicine. Aware of the major role of these personnel, but also of the dysfunctions of this service, we call for the provision of funds dedicated to the development of a comprehensive plan for the reform of school medicine, which would enable an audit to be carried out on the current situation in this sector and to find ways to restore its central place for the success of education and public health policies. We also stress the importance of programme 214 "Support for national education policy" and its objective 2, "Improving the quality of human resources management", with recruitment, training, support, recognition and upgrading as main areas of action. The development of the local HR advisor function, long-standing in 2019, provides support to staff in the construction and development of their careers. Our group also pays particular attention to the evolution of the appropriations of the 143 "Agricultural Technical Education" programme, which is often hidden. Let us remember, however, its crucial role in the training of young people in rural areas and in supporting agricultural innovations. The development of an ethical and responsible agricultural policy necessarily requires practical changes and therefore training. The level of investment foreseen by the PLF for 2021 must therefore be seen as one of the answers to the challenges of tomorrow's agriculture. Finally, 2021 will be a unique year, marked by the implementation of the recovery plan as well as the conclusions of the Grenelle de l'éducation and the general states of digital education, which will instill a new school dynamic. It should be noted that with more than €318 million in additional funding allocated to the School Education mission, the recovery plan will give it a new impetus. These funds will allow, for example, the creation of 200 additional places in boarding schools of excellence or the opening of the success ropes scheme to more than 120,000 students. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Group of the Democratic Movement and Related Democrats therefore welcomes an ambitious budget, a good budget that will bring us closer to the goal of a fairer, more egalitarian and more inclusive school. For all these reasons, our group will vote in favour of the credits of the "School Education" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u151	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u152	The review of the funds allocated to the "School Education" mission for 2021 is part of a painful context for the school of the Republic and for our nation. We still feel the immense emotion aroused by the abject assassination of Mr. Samuel Paty, whose memory we welcome here again. We also have in mind the intensification of the health crisis, which raises concerns about decisions that may again undermine access to schools. The Government presents this fourth five-year finance bill as a combat budget. By increasing the credits of the "School Education" mission, he claims to give priority to school and to reduce the school inequalities, which were particularly deepened, as we know, during the first confinement. [[Minister for National Education, Youth and Sports protested]] However, it is difficult for us to believe in the sincerity of this commitment. Just remind us of a few figures: when you pride yourself, Minister, on an increase of 1.6 billion euros, it was 3 billion that your predecessor, Mrs Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, obtained on the occasion of the last finance bill for François Hollande's quinquennium in 2016. This increase had brought the national education budget to more than €68 billion for 2017, compared to 53.6 billion today, and had led to the creation of nearly 11,700 posts, including 9,700 teaching posts. Yes, Mr. Minister, for sure! So, as you will have understood, this budget is marked by a voluntarism of facades that translates, in truth, rather a form of immobilism that does not meet the challenges and the urgency that national education must overcome in this context. First of all, we oppose the continuation of the imbalance of treatment that you operate between the first degree and the second degree. It should be noted that the creation of 2000 posts in the first level is entirely undermined by the pursuit of the priorities announced by the Government, such as the duplication of classes, the ceiling on 24 pupils and the promise not to close any rural schools. Consequently, there is almost no room for manoeuvre on the other classes. The disappearance of the "more teachers than classrooms" system, which has been praised by teachers, will accentuate this lack of human resources and will hinder the possibility of working in small groups, yet so fruitful. Similarly, teacher replacements will be made impossible under these conditions, while the health context should force you to consider this issue. Your priorities for the first degree are therefore to the detriment of the second degree, again a great loser of this budget. The abolition of 1800 jobs must be correlated with the reception of an additional 28,000 pupils, since the creation of 3000 full-time equivalents in overtime is obviously not such as to compensate for these abolitions, as the working conditions of teachers are already deteriorating and their workloads intense. The second point that concerns us is the discrepancy between your statements and the reality experienced by professional and agricultural high schools. We will defend a number of amendments concerning their very critical situation, particularly with regard to agricultural education, including the stagnant budget, which must also be abolished by eighty posts compared to the initial finance law for 2020. The third point is the central question of the salary revalorisation of teachers, once again minimized. While EUR 814 million had been budgeted in 2016, only EUR 400 million is retained in this finance bill, equivalent to EUR 37 per month and per staff. This much too low concession will not compensate for teachers' salary downgrading, in deficit of 22% after 15 years of career compared to their European counterparts. The recent announcement, purely media, of a Grenelle of education rather than of a multi-year programming law is almost an insult to staff after four years of quinquennium. Finally, we regret the cruel lack of resources devoted to student monitoring and strengthening support functions, which are essential to effectively combat school inequalities. I am referring here to RASEDs, health personnel – doctors as nurses –, senior education counsellors, psychologists, education assistants, but also the resources devoted to social funds. As for the inclusive school, it is unfortunately characterised by a quantitative rather than qualitative approach, to the detriment of the AESHs and the reference teachers, who run under administrative tasks and thus have to abandon their primary role of accompaniment. Several of our amendments concerning PIALs, the reform of the vocational high school or the opening of places for teachers of physical and sports education – EPS – to the examination of the certificate of fitness for the faculty of physical and sports education – CAPEPS – 2021 have been declared inadmissible. We regret it. I will conclude my remarks by asking you, Minister, about the prospects for the coming back next Monday in the context of health. There seems to be an increasing number of international studies identifying schools in chains of contamination. Without prejudging the decisions taken at the end of the defence counsel, can you tell us what means are envisaged to bridge the disparities found during the first confinement and to ensure the continuity of the courses in the event of reconstitution? In any event, for the reasons I have set out and because we are concerned, the members of the Socialist and related group will vote against the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u153	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u154	The examination of the credits of the "School Education" mission takes place in a particular context which questions the foundations of the school as an institution. I would therefore like to recall several principles, on which we must find ourselves, which are the basis of the commitment of the women and men who make our republican school live. There is a secular transcendence in the Republic, and it is realized at school, this institution which raises, which allows to exceed its social condition in order to reach its vocation as a woman or man, to find its place in society and to give meaning to its existence as an individual. It is with this promise of the Enlightenment that we must renew. This is a complex, long-term challenge that is not part of the time of the elections but demands the unity of the nation behind a project inherited from several generations. It is this effort on ourselves that we owe to Samuel Paty. This teacher was murdered because he was teaching freedom. The barbarism of Islamism struck a teacher. The murderer attacked the heart of the Republic, the place of equality of opportunity and the emancipation of the individual, this wonderful place of knowledge where free spirits are formed and where one learns to become a citizen. For all those who believe in the beauty and strength of the Republican project, the school is the place of freedom, equality, fraternity and secularism where the teacher must be respected. This shock calls for a real republican awakening, not just a new indignation but a determined mobilization to repair the flaws that each small renunciation of the last thirty years has helped to dig. The Action Together Group fully supports the Government's efforts to combat radical Islamism. This was already the subject of the Gatel Act aimed at simplifying and better regulating the system of opening and monitoring private institutions out of contract, and several provisions of the Act for a school of trust. This essential action will continue during the consideration of the bill strengthening secularism and republican principles, to which our group will obviously take its full part. It is in this difficult and painful context that the examination of the credits of the "School Education" mission is of particular importance. The Action Together Group welcomes the increase in these appropriations, which reached EUR 53.6 billion in 2021. First state budget, this mission pursues several fundamental priorities. Priority is first given to the first degree because it is the age at which everything is played out: by 2021 there will be 2000 additional jobs, and the process of duplication of classes in priority education networks will continue. As an elected member of the 18th arrondissement of Paris, particularly concerned, I can testify to the success of this policy. Another priority is the continued implementation of the inclusive school, including 4000 additional jobs for accompanying students with disabilities. This mission also foresees, and it is essential for us, a specific upgrading of the teaching profession from several levers: new resources, to the tune of 400 million euros, particularly for early-career teachers and school principals; the continuation of the wage adjustment effort initiated since the beginning of the quinquennium with a net premium of EUR 1000 paid to teachers working in the reinforced priority education area; Finally, the implementation of the last part of the protocol on career paths, careers and remuneration, i.e. an additional €36 million in 2021. The upgrading of the teaching profession is an absolute necessity, a guarantee of the recognition and importance that our society attaches to the mission of those who exercise it. We have to gather behind our teachers. And this is the whole purpose of the Grenelle de l'éducation, committed by your ministry and which combines contributions from staff, parents of students, trade unions and civil society. This open method allows us to approach with confidence the profound evolution of the education system and the professions of the national education staff. It will be implemented in early 2021. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Minister, I told you in committee: we know how much the school of the Republic is the commitment of your life, how attached you are to the philosophy of the Enlightenment, and how determined you are to succeed. We trust you. This is a collective challenge that must bring us all together, in every commune in France. In any case, we are at your side and determined to lead this fight with you for the Republic and for the school. Our group fully supports the adoption of the credits of the "School Education" mission for 2021. You can count on us because you have our trust.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u155	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u156	"Learning to read is burning fire. In these words, Victor Hugo encouraged the men of his time to focus on the education of the population to enable them to join the Enlightenment camp. In the times that run, one cannot find greater ambition than that of bringing men out of darkness! In this sense, Minister, you must recognize your efforts on the basis of a strong idea that every young person in our country should be able to read, write and count on leaving primary school. To those who still doubt it today, it should be recalled that the school of the Republic is, for every student, the best way to emancipate and learn to become a free citizen. For example, the funds of the "School Education" mission for 2021 reflect the Government's ambition to focus on first-level education. The IDU and Independent Group welcomes the creation of 2000 additional posts and the upgrading of some €400 million for teachers. I would like to stress in particular the remuneration, which I hope will be central to the Grenelle of the education we are starting. Recent events have shown that the profession of professor is of paramount importance in our society. I take as evidence the many testimonies about these teachers engraved in the memory of each of us, who have had a positive impact in our lives. We all had one, and it was well recalled during the ceremony at the Sorbonne through the reading of Albert Camus's letter to his teacher. To recognize the importance of our teachers, it is more than time to show them financial recognition. I will repeat an argument often heard in the ranks of the majority on other subjects: if you want to recruit the best, you have to pay them accordingly. Thus, as we enter the final year of the refresher program for teachers in REP and REP+, we will support the idea of a decent bonus whose award criteria must be based on the significant time given by these teachers in these often difficult environments. The health crisis has put our school to the test, and I would like to stress once again the courage and inventiveness of some teachers to ensure the educational continuity during periods of confinement. But not all of the world's efforts would have prevented some students from picking up or falling behind. While a second wave affects us just as violently as the first wave, I must confess my concern for our young people, because although a closure of schools seems to be excluded at the moment, it seems difficult to predict the evolution of the crisis in the coming weeks and many of them have already had a lot of fun. Mr Minister, you have announced EUR 91 million to support local and regional authorities in the development of digital education at school. Is this enough to allow students who do not have enough computers at home to attend the school remotely and avoid dropping out? We are also concerned about the health and well-being of students and teachers. Too few resources are allocated to medicine and school psychologists, although their role is essential. I know you're aware of this, so let's try to do something. We will defend amendments on this subject in order to alert you to the importance of school health, especially in this difficult time for students and teachers. The IDU and independent group would like to welcome the recruitment of many AESHs, which will continue next year. Inclusion in our schools is a key topic, but if the increase in numbers is a good thing, the number does not do everything. The break-up of contracts and thus of the interlocutors makes working conditions and remuneration unbearable for these accompanying persons, however essential. We would like them to have a single employer, whether it be national education directly or a large enough community, so that they can better juggle needs and get a better pay. This is a long-standing fight by my colleague Béatrice Descamps, who will certainly return to it during our debates. Finally, we question developments in secondary education. As you pointed out in committee, the reform of the high school will have brought a new diversity in the choice of teachings, which will certainly be beneficial for the students. But this greater freedom does not seem to be accompanied by sufficient means to guide them; This should be improved both on the part of senior teachers and on the part of digital tools. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] So my group is addressing this budget in a positive way, but, as you have seen, we will be paying attention to a few questions during the debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u157	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u158	This debate takes place in a painful moment for our school, but also for our whole country, and even beyond our borders. Like all of you, I want to express once again my support and gratitude to the entire educational community and to evoke the memory of Samuel Paty, who died for the values that you all recalled. In these moments of national consensus around the values of the Republic, it is very important to say, as you have all done, that the school of the Republic is our precious treasure. Samuel Paty did not die on the occasion of a different fact, but in the hussard of a school that carries high the values of the Enlightenment. He fell into a war between the universalist forces, which he embodied, and the forces of fragmentation, which seek to divide and go against the Enlightenment. This spirit of unity and combat for what makes France and the Republic, we must keep it in mind so that it does not fade away with the passing days. Next Monday, through our tribute to Professor Samuel Paty, we will honour all our teachers – past, present and future – in schools, colleges and high schools, in your presence, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The task of our teachers is harsh, especially in some territories. The establishment of a State Secretariat for Priority Education attests to the high level of awareness of these issues within the Government. I am pleased to be accompanied in my task by Mrs Nathalie Elimas, unfortunately absent from this Chamber because of the covid-19. You will also examine today the credits of the "Sport, Youth and Associative Life" mission, with Mrs. Roxana Maracinanu and Ms. Sarah El Haïry. Our great ministry fulfils the same objective: to make our children grow up by transmitting to them the knowledge and values of our Republic, whether at school or outside it. It is important to stress that we are at the heart of two very significant crises, which must not be underestimated: the security crisis, which is attested to by the death of Mr. Samuel Paty, and the health crisis. It is in times like this that we can prove that we are a great country that knows how to show resilience, but also to unite around the essential things. In the remarks that have been made in this rostrum, I have heard the same love of the school of the Republic, the same desire to see its budget move forward; It is on this foundation that we must build, even if, of course, it is normal to hold a democratic debate on the use of our means. The school education budget is the nation's first budget. The priority given to education by the President of the Republic and the Government is not only intact, but above all strengthened. We therefore present to you a budget for consolidation and deepening of reforms, consistent with previous budgets and marked by several dynamics. The momentum in favour of primary school is a constant of this quinquennium. We are trying to catch up with what must be, because, as you all know, investment in primary school has been insufficient in our country for several years. Through the creation of posts and other budget increases, we strive to achieve the highest priority that has been recalled here: to give every child the fundamental foundation of basics – reading, writing, counting, respecting others. With the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 in REP and REP + – the advanced point of a policy that continues in favour of the major sections in REP and REP +, but also in favour of the whole primary school thanks to the limitation of the numbers, particularly in the large section, CP and CE1 throughout France – we show a simple conviction: the first chance that one gives to a person, in the first years of his life, is school. The new dynamic also concerns human resources: it is the sense of the Grenelle de l'éducation, whose budget I present to you is a first step in terms of raising wages. This process marks a real turning point for national education, the transition to a second part of this quinquennium. The educational and educational reforms as well as certain changes in purchasing power decided within the framework of the Grenelle de l'Éducation are already an important beginning, but this budget also reflects the desire to reshape the human resources of national education, not only by significantly upgrading teachers – an objective that we obviously share – but also by laying the foundation for modernization. On many subjects – priority education, school management and other issues that have been raised here – the Grenelle de l'éducation, like that of health, will certainly contribute to this goal, a fortiori if many of us support it. The budget for the "School education" mission, excluding State pension contributions, is €53.6 billion, an increase of more than 3%. This additional EUR 1.6 billion represents a considerable increase, twice the budget path initially defined last year for the financial year 2021. In addition, for the second year in a row, we are securing jobs. This means that from September 2017 to September 2021, the increase will have been 6.8 billion euros – compared, as I said in committee, to the increase of 2.3 billion euros between September 2012 and September 2016. These figures clearly illustrate the priority given to education during this quinquennium. I was a little surprised, Mrs Tolmont, to hear you compare figures including state pension contributions, for the previous quinquennium, with non-contributory figures, for the current quinquennium. Earlier, Gorgias was mentioned: let me tell you that you have done very hard, and that you have built a beautiful sophistry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u159	That's it, that's it, that's it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u160	The increase has been continuous and will of course continue. It is important to recognize it because it is not about literature, but about mathematics: these are raw figures that I give you. Our ambition in primary education has been demanding and constant since May 2017: in this budget, we create 2039 additional positions for the first degree, despite a context of population decline. Indeed, it must be stressed and deplored: at the beginning of the 2021 school year, there will be 65,000 fewer pupils. In total, since 2017, we will have created more than 7,000 positions in the first degree, with 200,000 fewer students. I take this opportunity to worry about this demographic trend, which needs to be monitored very closely. However, the combination of these two phenomena obviously leads to a very significant improvement in management rates. This improvement was continued from 2017 to 2021, seen every school year, in each department of France. This budget includes important measures of social justice: the doubling of classes not only of CP and CE1, but also of large section of kindergarten in REP and REP+, the ceiling to twenty-four pupils per class in large section, CP and CE1, and the reception of additional pupils with the lowering of the age of compulsory schooling to 3 years, in line with the speech of the President of the Republic to the Walls. It accompanies, more than ever, all students towards success. The volume of public secondary education will be maintained in 2021. Of course, 1800 jobs are being redeployed to the first degree, but we are creating overtime, which increases the means of teaching in a way equivalent to the creation of nearly 1,000 jobs. The year 2021 will be the year of the completion of the reform of the baccalaureate, which will allow all high school students to gradually appropriate their future thanks to the widening of choices. This budget also strengthens support for the most fragile students: I am proud to be part of a government that has invested so much in inclusive school. Of course, it remains to be done and you are many to have said it, but let's look at what has been done: the number of students with disabilities in school is constantly increasing. In 2021, we will spend more than 3.3 billion euros per year on this subject: this is the largest budgetary increase of all the posts of the State...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u161	That's right! It must be stressed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u162	Since 2017, it has reached 60%. After AESH's 8000 FTEs were created in 2020, we created another 4000 FTEs in 2021. Considerable progress has been made, although others remain to be made – we will talk about it during the discussion of the amendments. I also stress the social accompaniment of students, which is one of the key conditions for success: scholarships and social funds represent in 2021 an envelope of 860 million euros, an increase of 51 million euros. Finally, this budget commits to raising wages and strengthening the attractiveness of the teaching profession. With regard to the revalorisation expected by our staff, our commitments are kept with a financial envelope of 400 million euros, the full-year cost of which amounts to 500 million euros. Overall, payroll credits are subject to a net increase of almost €950 million, which directly benefits Ministry staff and results in improvements in purchasing power. The Grenelle de l'éducation began on October 22nd: it will be intended to value all our staff and to give our teachers the central place they have in society. It will also initiate a multi-year logic – I defend the idea of a programming law that will draw the consequences of the Grenelle's work. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is therefore the recognition of the nation towards its teachers, but also the recognition by the nation of the central role of education in general that this budget promotes – and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u163	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the time for questions and answers is two minutes each. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u164	Mr Minister, after our rather lively discussions yesterday, which even continued on social networks without you answering the specific questions I asked you about your support for private school, I want to ask you about a subject which is probably going to be a problem for us: the cruel lack of school medicine in our public schools. School doctors are now, in France, less than a thousand for more than 12 million students. In Seine-Saint-Denis, a department where I am elected, they are only about twenty. The same applies to school nurses: positions are missing and those open are too often vacant. The problem is simple: we do not pay enough for school doctors. A report by the Court of Auditors proposed an increase of 30 %, but this recommendation has not yet been implemented. A tragic example: on 30 September last, in Saint-Denis, at the Paul-Éluard High School, one of the department's main high schools, two students clashed and one stabbed the other – it had defrayed the chronicle. And it was a student taking a first aid course that saved his comrade's life, because there are no nurses or school doctors in the school. This shows the unacceptable nature of this situation, which cannot last any longer, if the defence of the public school is at heart. Since the outbreak of the pandemic more than nine months ago, the situation cannot be considered to have changed. The virus circulates in institutions from which specialized personnel are absent who could detect symptoms and do prevention. Apart from covid -19, it is all the work of prevention, of education on sexuality and contraception, of detection of psychological disorders in the direction of our youth that is failing. I am not even talking about the decline in the links between national education and medical-psycho-pedagogical centres, which are essential to detect behavioural disorders of young people – disorders that may have a connection, when they are severe, with dramas that take place later on...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u165	Mr. Corbière, your two minutes are up.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u166	Minister, what do you intend to do on this subject on which we all want to move?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u167	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u168	In two minutes, it's always the same problem, Mr Corbière, I don't have time to answer what you said before coming to your question. I would have done it with pleasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u170	I appreciate both the meaning of your very serious question and the tone you adopted – this contrasts with our discussions yesterday. Not one of the points you have just advanced is a lie or exaggeration. I definitely prefer that tone. Let us be careful, let us not forget that the slander and false information that then circulates on social networks do a lot of harm. We cannot denounce them on one side and be complicit in their spread on the other. I will give you one example, among others: you said that I had been DGESCO – Director General of School Education – from 2007 to 2012, which is not correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u171	Answer the question instead.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u172	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the current context, and also in response to Mr.Mélenchon's comments, I would also like to say that a public servant does not have to account for the action of political power. A number of charges have recently been brought against officials under my responsibility: criticize me as much as you want, but do not question officials who cannot defend themselves with equal arms with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u173	What about the question?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u174	This applies as much to the officials of today as to the one I was.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u175	A Director General of Administration is still a bit of a particular official!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u176	As far as school health is concerned, which is a very important issue, I agree with the ins and outs of your remarks. The subject would obviously require a response of more than two minutes. Yes, this is a problem, and our school health needs to be improved. To provide a structural answer to the situation you describe is difficult, because it refers to the question of the medical vocation and the problem of the number of doctors in France. We will try to do so thanks to the Grenelle de l'Éducation: working groups will discuss this issue of the school doctor, and in this context, by February, progress will have been made. I would point out that we have not been inactive for three years. Far from my idea of avoiding your question, but I do not have enough time to describe the whole of our past action and the prospects that are opening up. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u177	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u178	France is firmly committed to an inclusive school. Successive finance bills since 2017 bear witness to this, which have seen the inclusive school budget increase by more than 60%. I'm very pleased with that. The law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust had brought about the transformation of the contracts assisted by accompanying students with disabilities – AESH – into fixed-term contracts under public law of three years, renewable once, and the creation of an inclusive public service of the school. In 2021 the dedicated appropriations will fund the recruitment of 4000 additional jobs from AESH. If the training of the latter has improved, and if their place in the establishments is better recognized, they sometimes find themselves in difficulty on the ground, and their income is still too low – around 700 euros monthly. I would first like to draw your attention to the tensions related to the difference in treatment and management of the two types of contracts that govern them: contracts under Title 2 or outside Title 2. The AEHS recruited from this second type of contract do not receive compensation for travel expenses. The differences between the two contracts present management difficulties for recruitment and for the proper organisation of the inter-degree inclusive support hubs. Mr Minister, do you think it is possible to simplify this situation, given that after six years, the contracts of the AESH all become CDI of Title 2? Next, the question of the working time of the AESHs, forced to work part-time, sometimes less than 20 hours, often 24 hours, more rarely 30 hours a week. In primary school, because of the duration of the teachings, most attendants may not be employed more than two times three hours a day, i.e. no more than 24 hours a week. The transition to 30-hour contracts per week, thanks to an extension of the working day on the basis of the college model, including extracurricular time, could be a lever to get the AESH out of the precariousness and to make our schools more inclusive in 2021 for the 385,000 students with disabilities who will be welcomed there. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, I thank you for telling us what your intentions are to improve the professionalization of the AESH and to further improve the situation of these personnel in national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u179	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u180	This is also a serious subject that will deserve us to come back to it several times during our debates. I said, and you noted, that we are on a very good path, as the inclusive school budget has increased by 60% since 2017. The increase in HSEAs was both quantitative and qualitative. There were approximately 70000 contracts assisted four years ago, and today we are more than 100,000 CDDs, or even CDI in some cases. This is a considerable step forward. I do not have such a strong example in terms of personnel working for the State. We now consider the AESH as full members of national education. In line with what was said when the law was passed for a school of trust, in 2019, my goal is to make a public service of inclusive school live, which in particular means that there can be careers of AESH – it will be possible for them to evolve within the national education. We now find AESH references by department, which will receive a bonus in 2021, thanks to the budget that I present to you. In short, we are opening up prospects. We must certainly do better, but let us not neglect everything that has already been done. With regard to the wage outlook, this budget is likely to allow improvements for the new year 2021. Within the framework of the Grenelle de l'éducation, there is a specific discussion for the AESH. As far as full-time work is concerned, this is a goal that has not been achieved at all previously, but is beginning to be achieved thanks to the inclusive poles now installed in almost 80% of the establishments in France. In two re-entrys we have, again, greatly improved things. In committee, Mrs Rubin had admitted that this was an interesting development, even if it was not quite what she said earlier in the gallery. With the number of positions we have created, everyone can at any rate see that our goal is certainly not to save jobs, but to make better use of them and to allow more AESH to work full time – we did it at the start of the year, we will take stock of it. This will be one of the goals for the next fiscal year you are looking at.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u181	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u182	Knowing that the 143 "Agricultural Technical Education" programme of the "School Education" mission has a employment ceiling of 15266 ETPT – full-time equivalent worked – I would like to convey some questions to you from the agricultural education staff. Very touched, like all their colleagues in national education, by the brutal and unjust death of Samuel Paty, they wished to share with me their deep emotion. They also report, on this occasion, a curious anomaly in agricultural education: in fact, students preparing professional agricultural baccalaureates have no courses in moral and civic education, unlike those preparing professional baccalaureates in national education, the subject having simply never been included in the models of the curriculum. As a reminder, national pro-education baccalaureates benefit from an average of 90 hours per year in French, history and moral and civic education. It would be good, since this matter is everyone's business, if the agricultural sector could also benefit from these courses. Another area of concern is the increase in the duplication thresholds from 16 to 19 students. They tell us, with, it seems, a great deal of sincerity, that it is not healthy to have under these conditions professional gestures that require manipulations, especially in the pro baccalaureate "driving and managing the agricultural business". Learning can quickly seem to be a more meaningful path for future managers. Finally, I would like to take advantage of the finance bill to point out that agricultural education professionals need to be involved as much as possible in the ongoing work, such as the Grenelle de l'Éducation, in which they are already involved, but also as the digital generals. It is true that the current health crisis is not making things easier, but it must be possible. [[Sophie Mette applauds]] Mr Minister, although agricultural education is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, I have no doubt that you will now be able to provide an interdepartmental response to these questions. I understand that an amendment in favour of agricultural education would be considered: it is a very good thing that our majority can defend it because agricultural education is really a way of success. Its actors need this recognition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u183	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u184	I pay tribute to agricultural education whenever possible, and I want to do it again tonight. He is not a competitor of national education: he is part of the general public service. We frequently talk about this with the Minister of Agriculture, in such a way that, for three years now, we have been promoting agricultural education, especially at the college, so that students can know that it exists. It is very important that we work in close cooperation, which we do. I repeat, we are not competing in any way, not more budgetary than educational. The day of tribute to Samuel Paty will be the same in agricultural education as in the rest of the school system, which is quite normal. Moral and civic education is present in the training repositories, both in the 4th and 3rd classes and in the 2nd general and technological classes, as well as in the preparation for the baccalaureate of technology "sciences and techniques of food and living". We have also carried out a renovation of the common core of the professional baccalaureates issued by the Ministry of Agriculture: they will integrate moral and civic education from the beginning of the fall of 2022. The students of agricultural education are already working on the values of the Republic, notably through project pedagogy in French, history-geography and sociocultural education, but this will be reinforced by the reform I have just mentioned. The duplication thresholds have increased to give institutions more flexibility, but they are fully preserved for teachings that must comply with specific safety rules – for example forestry – as well as for modern languages. The aim of the reform is to give institutions more flexibility in the management of their resources. The effects of the reform of the duplication thresholds are precisely monitored, in particular by the General Council for Food, Agriculture and Rural Areas, which produced a report on the first year of its application without noting any particular difficulties. Finally, the Grenelle de l'éducation and the general states of digital education fully associate agricultural education. The guidelines and decisions on the remuneration we take will apply to the body of agricultural education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u185	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u186	In the second degree, until 2023, there will be an increase in the number of students, as in the professional high schools at the next school year. In total, 520,433 students are expected in SARA – vocational schools. At the same time, we are seeing a decrease of about 700 educational positions in SARA, in a context already marked by the use of overtime and the use of contract workers, while the volume of overtime available to heads of establishments is exploding. This volume of overtime, of which we do not necessarily contest the principle on a small scale if its aim is to give a little flexibility to the schedules, is far too high to be absorbed in good conditions – those that would favour teachers' educational efforts. Our students need guidance from available adults, supported by the institution, who are able to take into account learning difficulties in a personalized way, and to accompany them in a process of return to self-confidence and self-esteem. Teachers, senior education counsellors, education assistants and staff must be able to propose remedial solutions leading to success. Teachers often accept overtime in order to be able to compensate for salaries that everyone agrees to find quite insufficient, but the increase in the hours you propose, which is more than 1000 full-time equivalents in secondary school, is not reasonable. These hours are in addition to an already heavy daily routine: preparation, corrections, training, investments in multiple projects and multiple devices... You cannot ignore it, minister, teachers are facing increasingly heterogeneous audiences, while there is a 16.8 per cent absenteeism rate in SARA compared to 6 per cent in high school, tensions within schools, and an increasing challenge to regulations, with a serious rate of violence of 21 per cent in SARA. These figures indicate some of the issues facing our teachers. However, and this is the encouraging point in this table, the participation of these students in the councils of high school life is superior in vocational high school, demonstrating that the young people who attend these schools have a real need for recognition and are ready to take responsibility. So, Minister, can you explain why you prefer the ease of managing overtime to the stability and strengthening of educational teams in our schools?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u187	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u188	I can share some of your comments, and your question gives me the opportunity to present the strategic framework of what we are doing not only in this budget but from the beginning. First of all, as you know, France has underinvested in its primary school. On the other hand, it is above OECD countries for secondary education. There is one thing that we cannot be suspected of, is that we want to save on education: I have already given the figures, especially the EUR 6 billion plus out of five returns we spend on education. The aim is not to save money but to have a real fiscal trajectory, at the service of a qualitative, educational and pedagogical strategy. I have often said, in sixth grade, one would prefer to have one more student in class if he happens to be able to read, write and count well than to have one less and poorly prepared students. Everything we do for primary education, we do for secondary education. We have about 1.1 million national education staff: if we make the ratio, our country has a large number of teachers. The aim is therefore to better distribute them. This also applies to purchasing power. We must also have a vision in the long term: I am thinking of the years to come, where the demographic wave will begin next year to reach the second degree. We therefore have every interest in ensuring that the substantial additional resources of this budget are well distributed. That's why they're going to primary school. In secondary education, faced with the demographic effect, we maintain the means of teaching through overtime; It would of course not be possible for years, but it can stop when the demographic wave arrives next year. This will help to maintain the level of supervision in secondary education. And in primary school, the goal is that students have consolidated basic knowledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u189	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u190	I call the credits of the "School Education" mission, listed in state B. Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1249.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u191	Let me begin by reminding you of the context in which our amendments are being tabled. These are appeal amendments, since the budgetary rules force us to undress Peter to dress Paul. As I am in the Finance Committee, I am also aware of the Government's more comprehensive choices, which make the increase in this mission largely insufficient in view of the ambition I too have for school. In spite of everything, this amendment doubles as it denounces on the one hand the Government's gifts to private schools in this budget and on the other hand the working conditions of school principals. With regard to gifts to private schools, with the compensation to municipalities linked to compulsory schooling in kindergarten, which we welcome, it is 7.7 billion that are granted to private schools, for the elementary school, with an increase of 4.2 per cent, and even for vocational education, with an increase of 1.77%, when it is only 1.4 per cent in the public sector. Meanwhile, staff are still suffering in public national education. I am thinking in this case of school principals, because the draft law of Mrs Cécile Rilhac's opinion does not relieve anything in terms of discharge: it has been emptied of its meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u192	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u193	This role as school principal is essential, and chronophage – 87% of school principals say they are often interrupted in class to respond to a request related to the management function – not to mention the administrative tasks related to the "new management" of evaluations. This function is essential: available for students, for parents, for the community...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u194	We have to conclude, Mrs. Rubin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u195	That is the meaning of this appeal amendment: more discharges for teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u197	I would like the draftswoman to give her an opinion, please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u198	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u199	[[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] Mrs Rubin, you say that the proposal for a law on principals which I introduced in June has been emptied of its meaning. If so, I do not understand why the department was drafting a circular at the end of August containing many of its provisions. We said they were regulatory in nature and the minister made a commitment at the bench to take these steps; They've been taken, so things can progress. Therefore, this bill has not been emptied of its meaning. During the Grenelle, there will still be discussions on the role of school principals, and in the Committee on Finance the Special Rapporteur has recalled all the provisions currently under discussion, which I am not going to list. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u200	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u201	Madam Member, you said that the financial rules forced Peter to undress to dress Paul. So I have a minute to talk about the undressing that you propose of Peter and a minute for the dressing that you propose of Paul: it is little. With regard to Peter's undressing, I would like to correct your remarks. These are facts that I am going to set out, and I would be glad that in the future we are not repeating things that have been said in the House that they are not accurate. With regard to the appropriations for compulsory education at 3 years, your analysis is incorrect, since this constitutes an extension of powers for municipalities which would open up a right to financial support. When, therefore, you say that 100 million euros will go to private education, that is not correct: this goes to the municipalities, part for the private, part for the public. With regard to the evolution of appropriations, the 139 programme for private education increased by 1.69%, compared with 2.58% for the mission as a whole. I know that it pleases your side to say that we want to favour private education, but this is not demonstrated. On the contrary, this return is the first in which there is no increase in private education. This is not the situation I found when I came to the ministry, believe me. I know that you like to press this key – Mr Corbière did it yesterday – but that is not correct. On the amendment, Cécile Rilhac answered you very well. Everyone knows that she is attached to what she has proposed, and if it had been sweetened, she would say so. With the circular, we have been at the rendezvous of what had been promised, and we will be at other rendezvous, in particular the Grenelle de l'Éducation, to go further and try to find the most consensual possible formula that makes it possible to value the principals ever more and to give them more responsibilities if possible. Thank you to all those who wish to contribute constructively to this road that has already been well started.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u202	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u203	If it is regulatory, if the landfills – there have been zero for the moment – belong to the academic director of the national education services – DASEN – what was the reason for making a law? On the private side, my figures are more than 4.2% for the private element as opposed to 1.2% for the public. We are not going to engage in a battle of numbers, but these are the elements that I have at my disposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u204	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u205	Our group will not support this amendment. France's insoumée intends to systematically punctuate the programme "Private education of the first and second degrees". As much as we are in favour of the upgrading of the role of school principal, we believe that private education under contract carries out an extremely proactive policy in order to optimize the financial resources allocated to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u206	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 1357.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u207	This amendment provides for a computer resource for school principals. During the discussion of Mrs Rilhac's bill, we had an amendment passed stating that it was essential for school principals to have more effective tools, which correspond to their needs and expectations. This amendment, which seeks to translate it, provides for a €3 million envelope to equip and train school principals with digital tools. We've heard about 150 euros somewhere: I don't know if it's a fake news, but I think the 3 million we're offering are perfectly suitable for equipping our staff with tools that are at their level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u209	[[Exclaims on various benches]] I am glad that Mrs Victory defended this amendment because it allows me to wish her a very happy birthday. This amendment provides for a computer resource for school principals. Special attention is paid by the Government to the situation of school principals. I recalled their key role and the increase in responsibilities for new landfills. The circular of 20 August 2020 made it possible to deploy measures to school principals in order to meet three priorities: to give them time – two days of training, additional one-off discharges granted by DASEN, and the creation of the departmental focal point – and to simplify and give visibility – school principals now have full responsibility for programming and implementing the 108 hours –, to accompany school principals and to give them more time to exchange with their counterparts. Work for the school year 2021 is carried out at the level of the Directorate-General for School Education, in particular on the evolution of the rules for calculating landfills and on the possibility for school principals to benefit from delegations of skills, but also on the means of education assistants and digital tools. I think that the digital envelope should be part of the package in favour of the principals who will come out of the work in progress. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u210	[[Smile]] And happy birthday!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u211	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 1341.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u212	While the Government is reducing the number of staff at the second level, it is proposed that 10 per cent of contract staff be staffed annually, subject to seniority. The volume of contract workers, which reaches 40 per cent in some tense areas where recruitment of teachers remains difficult in some subjects, is in contradiction with the requirement of stability of the teams, a decisive factor in a policy geared towards student success. National education now has regular recourse to non-occupational teachers, which are about 37,000. These precarious positions place teachers in difficult, unstable situations that do not promote their personal development or the proper exercise of their profession. They have to adapt over very short periods to different types of establishment and to different levels and programmes. Moreover, this status, which does not associate them with training, also puts them at a disadvantage for their remuneration and retirement. These teachers have many years of experience for some of them. They must be able to be titularised without having to validate the internal competitions, according to the quality of the exercise of their teaching and criteria validated by the social dialogue within the institution. Despite the plan resulting from the Sauvadet law in 2012, the tenure process is not working well, yet the quality of the work provided by the contractors would require recognition and integration into the body of the state. It would be necessary to develop an improved system to take account of the experience of contractors. Finally, I would like to respond to the minister, who spoke to me during his opening remarks. You dispute my comments on the school education budget under the previous quinquennium, but you obviously do not dispute the creation of posts. To all those who consider that nothing has been done before 2017, I would like to remind you that François Hollande has kept at least one promise: that of creating 60000 posts in national education. You, you delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u213	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u214	Your amendment aims at titularizing secondary school contractors, but only part of them – 10% each year, which bothers me a little – according to the criterion of seniority. Apart from the fact that encryption is not justified, the measure itself seems unjustifiable: why take a contest when it would be enough to wait to be titularized? According to the amendment, any contract would automatically be valid after ten years, on the sole criterion of seniority. However, the competition must remain the gateway to the public service. It has republican value and allows citizens equal access to public jobs, including in education. In 2020, 23506 candidates were admitted to an external or internal competition for the recruitment of public education teachers. What message is sent to them if contract teachers are held without discernment? Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u216	I fully agree with the arguments put forward by the Special Rapporteur, on which I will not go back. As for what I told you earlier, Mrs. Tolmont, it is true that I was a little astonished. You said that the budget for school education was 68 billion under the previous quinquennium and that today it is 54 billion: if it were true, it would be catastrophic! No one can imagine it. However, there is a need for a minimum of reporting on the facts. You cannot compare a figure that includes contributions to the trust account – CAS – Pensions with a figure that does not include them. It is important for democratic debate to avoid such reasoning. However, you have just raised a very interesting issue. I said earlier, in the rostrum, that between the beginning of 2017 and the beginning of 2021, that is, since we are in charge, the school education budget will have increased by more than 6 billion euros, compared to the 2 billion increase between the 2012 school year and the 2016 school year – three times less. [[Danielle Brulebois and Gaël Le Bohec applaud]] If we succeed in stabilizing the current number of positions – 1.1 million, which is enough – while significantly increasing the national education budget, there is no doubt that the purchasing power of teachers will be significantly improved. On the other hand, creating new posts without or little increase in the national education budget would lead to stagnation or even regression. I am therefore surprised that you are complaining about the low purchasing power of teachers: if we are to be far behind other countries in this matter, it is indeed the legacy of the previous quinquennats! Let's make sense. Of course we can always create more jobs, but if people are poorly paid, is that good? As for us, we have chosen a policy of responsibility. We do not create more jobs in secondary education because their number is satisfactory in France today, but we invest heavily in primary education and create jobs there. This policy has logic and rationality. It will ensure a better evolution of purchasing power during the quinquennium and subsequent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u217	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u218	Last year, during the review of the PLF for 2020, the Socialist and Related Group adopted an amendment providing for the submission to Parliament of a report on the situation of contract workers in national education, which is problematic. It must be noted that no report has been submitted, which I am sorry for. You say, Madam Special Rapporteur, that we cannot treat all contract teachers without discernment. I remind you that these personnel are appointed by the rectorates, who therefore give them some confidence. In addition, they are, in a way, assessed by the head of the school and the students – they are mainly the ones who are able to tell whether their teacher is competent and useful. Now, let's be honest: contract workers are most often used to clog holes! That's not right. I therefore ask that the report on the situation of contract workers in national education be sent to us and that the Sauvadet law be fully implemented. We in France have the means to evaluate contract teachers, at least it seems to me. When they do their job well, they must become agents of national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u219	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1246.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u220	The use of contract personnel has not occurred today. They have already been numerous in national education, especially at the time of school massification. However, prioritizing contractors rather than incumbents seems to have become the doctrine of national education in human resources management. Again this year, while positions remain vacant, there is a preference to recruit 35,315 non-incumbent teachers in the second degree rather than to open sufficient positions for the competitive examination. The same applies to the first degree: contract workers are more likely to be recruited for long-term jobs than teachers on the supplementary list in the school teacher competition. In Seine-Saint-Denis, 600 contractors were recruited at the start of 2020, while there were still 242 candidates on the supplementary list. In addition to the precarious situation in which this system installs teachers who have already practised, the systematic use of contract workers raises the question of the consideration given to the profession of teacher. I like to remind you: teaching is a real profession. However, a contractor does not have initial training. So we end up with poorly trained teachers. By this amendment, we call for the establishment of a plan for the tenure of national education contractors, accompanied by a broad training plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u221	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u222	You are proposing EUR 100 million to finance a plan for the tenure of secondary education contractors. This is, of course, an appeal amendment, since a reform of this magnitude cannot be seriously considered in the context of an amendment. I would like to recall that the flexibility allowed by the recruitment of contractors is significant. It is therefore not desirable that all contract teachers should be titularised. However, we must ensure the quality of their training and living conditions. I also recommend reading a report published by the Court of Auditors in 2017 entitled "Managing Teachers Otherwise". Finally, I would like to point out that national education competitions are often open to all. It is important not to devalue them. I would add that it is not true that all contract workers are living in precarious conditions, although it is true that some are experiencing difficult situations. The committee has not considered the amendment, but I am against it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u223	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u224	I obviously agree with everything that has just been said by the Special Rapporteur. Let me clarify in general terms: there is no policy in the Ministry of National Education to increase the number of contract teachers and to reduce the number of full teachers. I would tell you otherwise if that were the case, but our objective is absolutely not this one. But there has always been, and will always be, whatever the government, a small proportion of contract workers in national education – as you yourself have pointed out, Mrs Rubin. This is inevitable, and those who become so are generally happy with it. The important thing is that contract staff do not remain so for the rest of their lives and that plans for tenure are organized on a regular basis. On this point, I agree with you. Contrary to what I sometimes hear, the policy we are pursuing is not, therefore, seeking to replace incumbents with contractors. I hope to reassure you by saying that. On this subject, as on others, we are being tried for intent. Of course, it is possible to do better for the contract workers, by offering them a CDI for example – and this is one of the topics that will be discussed in the context of the Grenelle de l'Éducation – but national education will never be completely free from contract workers: this would create significant dysfunctions. Finally, preserving the quality of the competitions is important, in particular to ensure the quality of the teaching.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u225	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u226	I repeat that our amendments are appeal amendments – useless to say every time – which denounce shortcomings in national education and, in this case, the situation of contract teachers. Mr Minister, I said that there had always been contract workers in national education and that there had been many at the time of the school massification, but it has long been completed! The use of contract workers has gradually become the doctrine of national education, whatever the governments, and remains yours today. The number of contractors is increasing and stabilizing. Today they represent more than a quarter, I believe, of national education staff. The function of the statute is not to protect teachers, but to guarantee quality education by well-trained teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u227	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u228	You were right to recall the importance of the competition and the tenure, Madam Special Rapporteur, but at the same time you imply that the contractors would not be up to the task, which is at least embarrassing. The number of contract teachers in national education is a real question, but we must also question the fate of contract teachers currently in operation. Rubin and I are members of Parliament for popular constituencies, and we see in our territories that contract workers are primarily assigned to establishments in priority neighbourhoods of city politics. They face sometimes difficult situations even though they are less well trained, and often young. In fact, they are at the age of creating a family, and in the Paris region, their wages do not allow them to live with dignity. The number of contractors is not the only problem, so we must also think about the place we want to give them. In the working-class neighbourhoods, the use of contract teachers creates instability within the teaching teams, which is detrimental to school projects. I take this opportunity to ask you once again, Minister, about this. There is a very strong issue here: that of a massification that would rhyme with democratization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u229	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 1244.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u230	The use of contractors is also due to the lack of jobs. In the second degree, 1800 teacher jobs are abolished, while an additional 23,300 pupils are expected. A total of 7490 jobs have been abolished since 2018. More students, fewer jobs: how to understand? To compensate for missing jobs, you require teachers to work overtime – two hours of service now. This mode of operation, which has become a principle, is unmanageable. In 2020, the avalanche of overtime, added to the complexity of the schedules associated with the new ferry, made the re-entry a real puzzle! I recall that in 2013, teachers worked an average of forty-one hours per week. Beyond the working conditions of teachers, it is the accompaniment of young people that becomes complicated. By this appeal amendment, we hope that public secondary education will be the subject of a genuine catch-up plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u232	The employment pattern of the School Education Mission foresees an overall increase of 3343 ETPT. School education is the priority of the quinquennium and the means to meet this ambition are devoted to it. The reduction in the number of posts foreseen in the second degree corresponds to a strategy of rebalancing the number of teachers in favour of the first degree, as the Minister recalled a few moments ago, and in particular of pre-elementary education. The development of childcare is an essential aspect of the priority given to education from an early age. The fight against school failure began in the early years. For this reason, the Government has decided to reduce the age of compulsory education to three years, to double the major kindergarten, CP and EC1 classes in the priority education network, and to limit the number of pupils to twenty-four for these classes in the other schools. The choice is therefore fully assumed, and the positive effects of these measures are already being felt. I would also point out that the resources of the programme "Public secondary school education" increase by €455 million to a total of €34.09 billion, an increase of 1.3%. In particular, the focus is on school inclusion schemes, guidance and learning of modern languages. On the other hand, the decrease in FTEs in the second degree is also due to demography. Indeed, as foreseen by the direction of evaluation, foresight and performance, in particular in a note of March 2020, the number of college students and high school students will be stable from 2022 onwards and should start a decline from 2024; It is therefore a matter of anticipating this situation. As the committee has not examined this amendment, I personally give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u234	I confirm everything that has been said by the Special Rapporteur, by telling Mrs Rubin that the proportion of contract workers is not one quarter of teachers – that would be far too much, and even unbearable – but 5.4%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u235	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u236	Thank you for your reply, Madam Special Rapporteur, but that's exactly what I was saying: you're undressing Pierre to dress Jacques! In other words, you focus on primary education – and still, only 20% of it – on the whole. Don't answer the same thing every time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u237	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 1342.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u238	We would also like to return to the abolition of 897 full-time equivalents in the second degree public. As I have already said, we regret that the Government continues to abolish teaching posts in this sector. I imagine that teachers will appreciate being fewer in order to be better paid... In 2019, 2650 posts have already been abolished, and more than 440 posts have been abolished in 2020; It no longer seems possible to continue this trend, as it greatly affects the quality of the education provided, especially since the number of pupils is increasing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u240	The arguments are exactly the same as for the previous amendment: unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u242	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u243	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u244	Rest assured, it will be my only intervention of the evening – I may make two more tonight. If I am slightly more than my speaking time, please do not, but I have found Mrs Tolmont's amendment so fair that I wanted to support it. I'm a former agricultural high school student. However, as the national trade union of public agricultural technical education – the SNETAP-FSU unitary trade union federation, which you are familiar with, Minister – says, every year, at the time of the finance bill, teachers' jobs and the supervision of pupils are abolished in local public schools of agricultural education and vocational training. As happiness never comes alone – but rest assured, minister, it had begun long before you arrived in office – another text, in 2018, came to blur the tracks, encouraging even more teachers to move towards the classical teaching of national education, and thus to turn away from agricultural high schools. But these high schools have been among the most at risk for a very long time – there was no need for covid -19 for this; We, Members of Parliament, are well placed to know that. In my agricultural high school, I had the chance to learn everything, including becoming a little myself; I've gained more confidence in it. Agricultural high school is the learning of know-how, of know-how, of know-how. Farmers are in direct contact with the remaining forces in the villages, and they are increasingly rare. In a country where all models of agriculture have been preserved and still live together, I prefer, like you, Madam President, whom I know well, that of family farming, in which the work is carried out collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u245	What does it have to do with the subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u246	But perhaps one day we will have to find a way to provide a salary to the families concerned, at least to one of its members and at least for some time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u247	Mr. Lassalle...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u248	[[Exclaims]] Let me finish, it's not good to cut me. Minister, you should look at this problem, I would appreciate it. Madam President, thank you for letting me finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u249	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 876.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u250	It aims to prevent the abolition of 1800 high school positions, which I referred to earlier in the opening discussion. It is true that in France the rate of secondary education is good; In the field of education, this is one of the few statistical elements for which we are above average. You consider this figure to be appropriate, and I fear that you would assume that it is possible to reduce it. Quite honestly, I find the argument problematic, because it is not because the rate of supervision is good that it is sufficient to effectively combat inequalities. Perhaps you think that it is by lowering it that we will succeed in reducing inequalities, but I hope that your reasoning does not go so far. There is a need to focus on primary education – the level of supervision is not good, and this is not the only aspect to be improved in schools – and to allocate additional budgets to it, but this cannot be done at the expense of secondary education. You say that the numbers are going to fall, but this is not yet true: as far as the 2010 generation is concerned, this is not the case, and next year there will be an additional 28,000 students in secondary school. There will therefore be overloaded classrooms, because you know very well that the overtime system will not reduce the number of classrooms. Secondary education should not only be used to learn to read, write, count and respect others: other things happen! It is necessary to devote time to the student, to regularly monitor his progress, to accompany his projects and his orientation, to help him build his critical spirit and his adherence to the values of the Republic – we see today how much it is necessary. This is not possible in classes at 28; You have to stop lying to yourself, it's impossible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u251	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u252	That is the meaning of this amendment, which shows a concern that we are many to share with regard to the tendency to lower secondary school enrolments to increase those in primary education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u253	You really need to try to respect your two-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u254	That was my first amendment! Give us time, if you want us to respect it, I don't have a chronometer in my head!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u255	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] There is never a chronometer for amendments. We have to finish the review of this mission tonight. I invite everyone to be concise if you don't want to spend the night.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u256	It's okay, Madam President, don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u257	Just impose a certain brevity on you, Mrs Faucillon, avoiding repeating yourself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u258	You have to learn to sum up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u259	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u260	I will do so quickly, since this is the third amendment that goes in this direction: I will not detail the pattern of employment. As the committee has not examined it, I personally give an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u262	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u263	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u264	It is said that the rate of supervision in secondary education is good; This may be the case in colleges, but in high schools there are 35 to 38 students per class! When there's a class, that said, because sometimes there's no more: it's a real puzzle... In any case, volumes are important.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u265	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1348 and 1346, which can be presented together. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u266	They're dealing with the same subject. I will try to make it very short but, without wanting to bother Mr.Minot, I did not have an answer to the question I asked earlier: why is there no report on the issue of contract workers in national education? I would like to come back to the subject of professional high schools – you will excuse me, I am driven by a certain tropism. The reform of vocational education, which aimed to make pupils more successful, has led to the creation of new schemes which can be beneficial, but above all it must be accompanied by additional resources for the secondary schools concerned. They are more than 1500 nationwide, which train more than 300 specialties, in an attempt to respond to the needs of students, territories and economic circles; So it's very important. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] Our two proposals go in the same direction: in view of the increase in the number of students in vocational lycées, we ask you to allocate them additional resources, so that projects such as the realization of the masterpiece, the co-intervention or the personalized accompaniment have enough hours to be effective. These two amendments therefore aim to give more resources to vocational education, so that its reform can be implemented effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u268	The means are there: the appropriations for vocational education will increase by just over €62 million in 2021. You refer to difficulties related to the integration of the pupils concerned into employment. To deal with this, three levers were chosen, respectively to create campuses of excellence, to offer leading-edge training in tomorrow's trades and to foster educational innovation and learning pathways. The Government's policy of supporting the creation of apprenticeship contracts by enterprises, for contracts signed from 1 July 2020 until 28 February 2021, aims to mitigate the impact of the health crisis on occupational integration. I recall that 2019 was a record year for apprenticeship: 50,700 additional contracts were signed and there were 491,000 apprentices at the end of the year, which represents a 16% increase compared to 2018. It is difficult to predict how learning will have evolved in 2020, in a particular context. Support from EUR 5000 to EUR 8000 will support apprenticeship contracts until February 2021, without conditions for companies with less than 250 employees. Every effort is therefore being made to continue to develop this professional sector. As the committee has not considered these two amendments, I will issue an opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u269	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u270	Unfavorable. Vocational education is of course a priority: this is reflected in the budgetary increase recalled by the Special Rapporteur. In the budget for 2021, the average cost of a professional high school student remains significantly higher than that of a general high school.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u271	This is the industry that needs to be valued!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u272	On the other hand, the report you are rightly asking for is ready; It is being transmitted to the General Secretariat of the Government, and you will have it in the near future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u273	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u274	That's good news at last! Thank you, Minister. As far as the means of vocational lycées are concerned, I would nevertheless like to point out that apprentices are not included in the calculation of the overall hourly allocation of establishments. Personalised accompaniment hours are therefore limited: they cannot be used for learning and must be devoted to other activities. I wanted everyone to know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u275	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1245.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u276	While school difficulty and failure are the Government's priority, the duplication of the major kindergarten, CP and CE1 classes in the PERs and REPs+ cannot be sufficient. Some experienced teachers question this duplication to twelve students per class...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u277	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u278	I'll tell you by the way, it's not worth protesting. In any case, that cannot be enough. The treatment of school difficulties must also be based on teams of RASED, composed of specialized teachers who have passed a certification allowing them to deliver a specific teaching that is predominantly pedagogic or relational. It is not a Coué method of neuroscience, with ten hours of French and ten hours of math, which gives the taste of reading. Not at all! However, the number of RASEDs has steadily decreased. In some departments, there is only one predominantly relational for 1,250 students – in other words, nothing. To really make quality, the school cannot get rid of these well-trained teachers. My point is to mean that RASEDs are necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u280	Mrs Rubin I think that here no one doubts the effectiveness of these RASED teams, composed of E-masters, G-masters and psychologists at the service of children with school difficulties. The RASED is also complemented by other mechanisms for preventing school difficulties: personalized assistance, complementary educational activities, the duplication of classes of CP and CE1 in REP+, and others. So the means to combat school failure must be understood as a whole – I say this while stressing the tremendous work done by the RASEDs, psychologists with the teaching teams. As the committee has not examined this amendment, I will give an opinion which is unfavourable in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u282	We will agree on some points, Madam Member, particularly on the importance of the RASEDs and the skills that these networks represent – because it is not a question of fetishism on the acronym but of being interested in content. I am the first to say that we need school psychologists with proven skills. Contrary to what you say, the number of RASEDs is not decreasing, as the figures before me show: the number of staff increases from 10155 to 10405. Because, yes, we need this kind of skills – even if the organization of networks can evolve. Your remark on cognitive sciences prompts me to make another one: we must avoid having a binary approach and recognize that psychologists, who are indispensable and integral to this fight against school failure, are themselves trained in cognitive sciences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u283	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u284	Pupils in PERs do not have RASEDs. Again, we choose between Peter or Paul.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u285	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u286	Yes, it is exclusive: there are neither RASED nor AESH for classes with twelve students. Anyway, that's what I was told. Concerning neurosciences, I too know teachers, and they question the ten hours of French and math for learning reading. To repeat the words of a teacher, in terms of learning, the human brain is not just a robot that ingests by heart! This is part of it, but only it does not open up prospects for quality and taste for reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u287	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 1356.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u288	Specialist teachers and school psychologists are useful, if not absolutely necessary, reinforcements for teachers and parents, especially in the current context. The comments made by the child psychiatrists we heard in the committee of inquiry on the impact of the covid-19 on children and young people made it clear that we had all experienced trauma, but in particular the children, to whom we may not have addressed ourselves directly. In the coming period, specialist teachers and school psychologists are therefore all the more necessary. That is why the abolition of RASED posts should be suspended or even increased.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u290	My arguments are the same as for the previous amendment. As the committee has not examined this amendment, I will give an opinion which is unfavourable in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u291	On Amendment No 1177, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1286.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u292	"Today we have to make choices. Some kids are left at the side of the road and it's the underprivileged families who drink first. Those who have the means to do so place their children in private. Psychologically, it's very hard for us to wear this, so much so that I think more and more about quitting," says a RASED teacher. A psychologist continues: "An inspector told me that we were going to have to choose who to help. Making choices is giving up. » RASEDs were born in 1990 of the desire to accompany children with learning difficulties, be they behavioural or psychological. This is a kind of forerunner of the inclusive school to which I know the Government is committed. However, RASEDs are dying. In the Somme, seventeen out of thirty-six antennas are incomplete: in half of the RASEDs, there is a shortage of psychologists or specialist teachers. A 2015 report, Great Poverty School Success, called for strengthening the RAEDs and ensuring that jobs were well-placed where there were needs. The savings of candlesticks made on the RASEDs penalize the professionals of the networks – who ensure at best but not without difficulty their mission – the teachers – who alone manage complicated situations – and especially the students. Ultimately, it is society that loses it if it leaves the school of dependent futures. Do you plan to shave the RASEDs and let them die at the age of 30 or give them the means to carry out their mission?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u294	My arguments remain the same for this whole series of amendments. Since the committee has not examined this report, I shall issue an opinion which is unfavourable in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u295	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u296	We agree, Congressman Ruffin. The Government does not intend to reduce the number of RASEDs at all, as confirmed by the increase in the number of staff I have already mentioned. There may be problems locally, but there is no policy to reduce the number of EADS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u297	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u298	Not only has it been going on for years, it's getting worse! In the Somme, sorry to come back, a person has just told me that she had chosen to resign, so bad! When a phenomenon fits into this way of life, it is difficult to think that it is not structural and willed. If it is involuntary, if the ministry has the will to bet on RASED, it must be felt in places such as the Somme, a department that the Departmental House of Persons with Disabilities considers to be one of the last according to the indicators of precariousness and health. I have no doubt about your good will, but I note a very big gap between what has been said here in Paris and what has been happening in my area for a long time. Your department is not the only one involved, but it would be a question of putting the means in front of the missions if we really want to do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u299	I call Mr Tolmont to support Amendment No. 1347.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u300	It aims to restore the eighty jobs in agricultural education abolished by this Finance Bill to Program 143, of which twenty-two are in the administrative category. For the record, there had already been fifty deletions in 2019 and sixty in 2020. In addition, fifty-three posts would be abolished in the public sector, compared with twenty-seven in the private sector. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, these job cuts would be justified by the drop in the number of pupils in agricultural education in recent years. However, if the number of pupils in agricultural education decreased by 10112 in the period from 2012 to 2019, this corresponds to a decrease of about 10% in private education and 1% in the public sector, where the number of pupils has even increased by 2.8% in 2019. Between 2012 and 2019, the number of students in public agricultural education increased by 629. In this context, it would be particularly unfair to abolish additional jobs in the public at a time when the number of students increased when those of the private sector declined.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u302	The pattern of employment in agricultural technical education actually decreases by eighty full-time equivalent positions – FTEs. You are right, however, that the number of pupils tends to stabilize, which shows that the sector is becoming attractive again in the eyes of the pupils. Various reasons explain this development: a new campaign to promote agroecology through the plans "Teaching to produce otherwise"; the renewal of the communication campaign "The adventure of the living", the effects of which have been very positive; the signing of an agreement with the Ministry of National Education to raise awareness of the sector. In this respect, I am a Member of Parliament for a constituency that has priority neighbourhoods in city policy, and I note that very little is said about agricultural education for young people in these neighbourhoods when they may be interested in these occupations. Finally, I would like to point out the excellent results of the students in the examinations in the agricultural technical field. However, the numbers of second-level students are bound to be capped from 2024 onwards for the same demographic reasons as in general education. More than staff costs, agricultural education needs resources to develop educational experiments, student support and other needs. That is what a forthcoming amendment from the Committee on Finance will propose. That is why I am not in favour of an amendment to the employment scheme in 2021. As the committee has not examined this amendment, I will give an opinion which is unfavourable in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u304	The Special Rapporteur gives me the opportunity to welcome what is the result of a proactive policy between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of National Education. We wanted this campaign, designed to promote orientations towards agricultural education, which is beginning to bear fruit. This illustrates my comments on convergence with agricultural education. Like the Special Rapporteur, I think it is necessary to promote this education among the children and adolescents in the cities, who can benefit from boarding schools and discover beautiful opportunities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u305	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1177 by the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u306	This amendment, which I tabled and which was taken up and adopted by the Committee on Finance, aims to increase the means of agricultural technical education by EUR 5 million. This line of excellence, often unknown, is in line with current environmental and food concerns, which are promoted by the plan "Teaching to produce otherwise". In the 2019-2020 school year, there was an increase in the number of students: 158677, 500 more than the previous year. The sector again attracts young people, and the success rates for exams are excellent: 92.6% for all exams in the sector, of which 98.3% for the STAV technology baccalaureate – science and technology of agronomy and living. However, despite the increasing resources in this finance bill and in the latest finance laws, I have seen during my work as special rapporteur that many needs of agricultural education remain unmet, whether in terms of classroom duplication, personal support hours in STAV or the provision of optional education. I therefore invite you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u307	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u308	Every year, amendments propose the appropriation of credits for school education to be devoted to agricultural education. I have just stated on several occasions that I want to agree with this teaching, that we are helping, and that the situation is not particularly worse than that of school education. It also seems important to me to point out that various efforts that we are making, such as the forthcoming upgrading of teachers' salaries, to which we will devote 400 million euros next year, will also benefit, to a due proportion, from agricultural education. If this amendment is not withdrawn, I shall therefore give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u309	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u310	Minister, I find your opinion very wise. The Republican Group is very supportive of technical and agricultural education. This is not called into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u311	Then give them the means!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u312	What shockes us is the budget allocation proposed by this amendment. It is therefore EUR 3 million from programme 139, of which I would like to point out that it concerns private education. However, if all State budgets were managed with the same rigour as private secondary education, they would not be in current deficit situations! The Court of Auditors also recalls that private schools under contract cost 37% less than public high schools – it is not me who invents it. I therefore find the method used by the Special Rapporteur very surprising. On the other hand, it seemed to me that during the examination of this mission in the Finance Committee it had withdrawn the amendment and that the committee had not adopted it. And I'll find him in discussion here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u313	Yes, it was adopted in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u314	[["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] I can't believe it. This procedure, by taking appropriations from a mission whose budgets are already very tight and which finances up to the inspectors of national education in the rectorates, is not acceptable. If it is not withdrawn, we will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u315	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u316	This amendment was indeed voted in committee, supported by many Members of the Republic on the move and the Allied Democratic Movement. The finance commissioners had adopted it. We wish, Mr Minister, that he will also benefit from your support, as well as from the support of our colleagues. We have discussed this at length: if we draw up appropriations to allocate them to a different programme and to different actions, that is because that is the only possibility we have. We therefore reiterate our support for the amendment by the Special Rapporteur, as in committee, where we voted collectively. It is not that we are against other programmes and actions, but that mechanism is the only one that the Special Rapporteur has at her disposal to be able to allocate new funding to agricultural education. I wanted to recall these elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u317	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u318	They belong to the same group!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u319	I agree with my colleague. I am not partial: I come from national education, not agricultural education. But I have heard teachers in this sector talk about the fact that, for some options, an hour of work is paid for half an hour. I've never seen this in national education. That is why I will support this amendment. The demands of agricultural education are very fair and deserve to be heard. We really need to act for this successful course which allows many young people to find their way very quickly after high school.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u320	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u321	We are making the same observation regarding agricultural education, which is a field to be supported – I am of course talking about public agricultural education, which earns students, while private agricultural education loses some. Rather than undress the secondary school again, which we saw was already well undressed...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u322	[[Smile]] He'll end up naked!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u323	...let's take credit instead of private agricultural education! That is the meaning of the amendment that we will propose to you immediately after it. We agree on support for the agricultural sector; It is on the appropriations to be charged, that we do not agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u324	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u325	There are many of us on every bench who want better support for agricultural education, both because some of my colleagues are being questioned about the subject in their constituencies, which is not the case in mine, and because this is something that goes back to the education commissioners every year when the budget was examined. In addition to the questions of specific means, it can be seen that agricultural education is too often deconceived, and more and more distant from general subjects. The proposed amendment could have been an appeal amendment or an amendment by the majority, had the majority worked with the minister in advance to find the necessary 5 million. But as proposed today, he divides us. For my part, I could have defended such an amendment by providing for the necessary 5 million from private education, but absolutely not from public secondary education. In all consistency I object, just as I have previously opposed the abolition of 1800 posts in the public secondary school.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u326	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u327	I will make exactly the same comment as Elsa Faucillon. It is truly regrettable that we find ourselves in this stupid situation. We have no choice but to abstain: we cannot vote against the granting of resources to agricultural education, which we all defend, or for the punctuation of resources on public secondary education! That's really absurd. While other amendments would be discussed, it was regrettable that the Government had not simply released additional resources so that an effort could be made in favour of agricultural education without that choice dividing us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u328	Mrs Sylvie Charière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u329	Future trades are an important topic, such as agroecology, permaculture or urban agriculture. In this regard, the establishment of agricultural lycées in Île-de-France, for example, would make sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u330	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u331	Taking credits from school education is very difficult: arbitration cannot be to its detriment. Nevertheless, let us develop agricultural lycées, especially in urban areas, as they prepare for future jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u332	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u333	To recall what happened in the Finance Committee, two amendments were tabled: one was for EUR 5 million, the other was for EUR 3 million. The first was unanimous in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u334	No, I didn't vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u335	An amendment by the Government, which will be discussed at the end of the review of this mission, should address some of our concerns. It seems wiser to withdraw this amendment, but the subject is not abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u336	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1277.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u337	The aim of this amendment is to cancel the abolition of fifty-three full-time equivalent positions in public agricultural education, out of the eighty involved in programme 143: this would otherwise make too many abolitions in total since 2019. After falling, the number of public agricultural education has started to rise again since 2019, with an increase of 629 pupils, while the number of students in private education has, on the contrary, decreased. That is why we are simply asking for the transfer of appropriations and authorisations for the payment of action 02 'Implementation of teaching in private institutions' from programme 143 to a new action to safeguard jobs in agricultural education. Perhaps we will reach a consensus by saving employment in the public agricultural sector through a levy on credits from the private agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u338	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u339	Several arguments have already been raised in this regard. What bothers me is the opposition between the public and the private. I see this debate coming, but I am not in favour of it. As the committee has not considered this amendment, I shall issue an opinion which is unfavourable in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u341	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u342	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u343	It is not a question of private and public opposition, it is not the subject, but of finding that, on the one hand, in the private sector, there are fewer students, while on the other hand, in the public, there are more. It's going well for once! It changes. Obviously, it is not in the agricultural sector that the leaks to private education take place! That is why we are proposing this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u344	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u345	This point of order is based on Rule 48(1), concerning the agenda and the conduct of our debates. Our work is progressing slowly, while there are still many amendments to be considered in the context of this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u346	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u347	We will then have to examine the appropriations for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission, which will give rise to a general discussion and a large number of amendments. We'd like to know how the rest of the discussion will proceed, in case we don't finish tonight at midnight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u348	This will happen as before yesterday evening: to finish the discussion of a mission, the meeting was adjourned at almost two and thirty hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u349	But there's a meeting tomorrow morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u350	So we need to move on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u351	[[Mr MaximeMinotproteste]] In that case, I confess I do not have the answer to your right question, Mr. Reiss. The only recommendation I can make at this stage is to invite you to brevity. Don't get angry, Mr. Minot, you're not being targeted: it's a general recommendation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u352	I call Mr Vatin to support Amendment No. 978.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u353	The 143 "Agricultural Technical Education" program of this Finance Bill is intended to accommodate an additional 20,000 young people in technical education and promote the agro-ecological transition of our agriculture. However, there are plans to abolish eighty jobs under the programme, in addition to the job losses of previous years. We therefore propose to move part of the sums from programme 214 "Support for national education policy", to the amount of EUR 3.4 million, to agricultural technical education in order to anticipate the increase in the number of pupils received.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u354	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u355	For the same reasons as before with regard to the employment scheme, I will give an opinion against this amendment, in my personal capacity, since the committee has not examined it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u356	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-28-O1045.u357	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Further examination of the credits of the "School Education" mission; Review of the credits of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission. The meeting is adjourned.
