ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u2	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, to put his question, No. 1093, concerning telework by border workers in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u3	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance about the development of telework, which has imposed itself on the 107 000 French frontier workers who cross the border every day, and the necessary adaptation of the tax rules which result therefrom. France and Luxembourg agreed last Wednesday on the extension until 31 August 2020 of the amicable agreement on telework for border workers, and that is a very good thing. While the covid-19 pandemic forced all European governments to take unprecedented steps, many French borderers stayed at home and discovered the use of telework. This unprecedented situation raises many social and fiscal issues, particularly with regard to the last convention, which entered into force this year. In my capacity as Special Rapporteur for European Affairs of the Committee on Finance, I welcomed the application of the new twenty-nine-day telework threshold, the first step forward for the borderliners of the High Countries on which I had committed myself. Already at the time, I had called for the threshold to be exceeded in order to be closer to that laid down in the future tax convention between Luxembourg and Belgium, i.e. 48 days of authorised telework. The current crisis must free us from the twenty-nine-day glass ceiling and allow us to talk about the threshold that should be of interest to us all: the one provided for in European regulations. This ceiling allows borderers to retain their Luxembourg rights while working in France. Luxembourg is ready to reconsider things, with a view to co-development – but not only. His Prime Minister, Xavier Bettel, and his Minister for the Greater Region, Corinne Cahen, stressed the vital importance of border workers to the national economy and discussed the possibility of considering one day of telework a week. Telework is part of the solution. See all the positive externalities caused by its massive use in our territory! As far as transport is concerned, whether it is car or public transport, it is three hours of life found every day. As far as road traffic is concerned, this translates into a drop in pressure on infrastructure – the future development of the A31 bis already showing its limits and traffic on the national 52 posing major problems, although the minister responsible for transport says. And I'm not talking about the benefits to the climate! Having travelled Luxembourg for 18 years, I am talking about it with knowledge. I am convinced that this win-win solution will change the lives of the borderers and partly solve certain mobility problems. I have three questions to ask. Is the Government in favour of promoting telework? Is he prepared to change the tax treaty in order to raise the threshold from twenty-nine to about fifty days, which would correspond to the ceiling of 25% of working time? Can you confirm to me that this question will be included in the programme of the next Franco-Luxembourg intergovernmental seminar, scheduled for the autumn? I know that the borderers of the High Country who look at us are waiting for answers – me the first.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u5	Mr President, the Minister of Economy and Finance has asked me to answer your question. These are the things he gave me. A new tax convention linking France and Luxembourg has been ratified; it shall apply from 1 January 2020. It does not provide for any specific arrangements for border workers, which is in line with the wishes of both States as well as that of the border workers themselves. Therefore, for the distribution of the right to impose remuneration, the rule that applies is the standard rule followed by all conventions, in accordance with the OECD model, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development: income from activity is taxed at the place where this activity is carried out. However, the new Convention contains an additional provision on teleworking, which allows a French resident teleworking from his domicile in France on behalf of an undertaking situated in Luxembourg to have the corresponding remuneration imposed on Luxembourg, within the limit of a twenty-nine day per year package. Beyond this, the treaty rule of common law applies again and telework days in France are imposed in France. This particular clause is not reflected in any other agreement signed by France. The number of days provided for in this package is similar to that set out in the Treaties linking Luxembourg to its neighbours. The authorities in both states considered the covid-19 epidemic to be a case of force majeure suffered by workers. An amicable agreement was therefore reached to allow, if the taxpayer so wishes, not to take telework days at home into account because of the health situation in the count of the twenty-nine-day package. This exceptional agreement is, by its nature, temporary. Since the current convention had entered into force for six months, it was not possible to negotiate a new agreement today to increase the package by twenty-nine days on a permanent basis. On the one hand, this would lead to a permanent loss of tax revenue for France, which would give up its right to impose more widely than today. On the other hand, this would not necessarily be in favour of all the taxpayers concerned because, while Luxembourg's taxation may be beneficial for certain categories of households, modest households and families with children who are entitled to the family quotient in France may, with the application of French legislation, benefit from more advantages. In general, it would be less appropriate to consider taxation as a determining factor in the choice of employees to use this form of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u6	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u7	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for that answer. We had the opportunity to talk about it just before the session began. Do not doubt that I will come back to the burden, because clarification will certainly be necessary on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u8	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to raise her question, No. 1115, on the recognition of the work of healthcare workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u9	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to ask you about the situation in my department, the Ardèche, with regard to the carers' premium and the premium for staff in medical and social establishments. On the first point, my colleague Hervé Saulignac and I still do not explain that our department, which paid a heavy toll to the covid -19, with a high circulation of the virus and a unfortunately very high death rate, has not been retained in its entirety for the payment of the "covid premium", unlike the neighbouring department of Drôme, whose indicators that guided the choice of the Government showed, however, that it was less affected. For example, only the three reference centres in the department were awarded the bonus, while the local institutions in my constituency, the hospital in Tournon or the hospital in Moze in Saint-Agrève, for example, received patients from neighbouring departments and intensified their efforts to accommodate patients and manage patients and residents already hospitalized, were ignored and did not benefit from this gesture of recognition, which they are particularly affected and bitter. We share this arbitrariness. These choices are not worthy of the consideration that we owe to all caregivers. During the crisis, the social and medico-social sector was also able to respond present and face, in order to support the most fragile. Like caregivers, home helpers have played a key role. They have helped save lives, including by making home containment possible. For the 5 million elderly and disabled people living alone in their homes, all over France, these workers have been very useful and have often been the only link with the outside world. This premium, which will have to be paid by the departments, competes with the territories on the basis of their wealth and the number of home helpers. That's not acceptable. In addition, there are inequalities in treatment between EHPAD in the same department, and even differences in taking into account the work of caregivers between the hospital and EHPAD living in the same building. We will also regret the lack of recognition of the work of caregivers in psychiatric institutions, which have been mobilized like the others during this period. It is time to correct these injustices. The bonus system was already raising important issues of social justice, but the way you have implemented it increases an anger that is only too legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u10	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u11	In order to fully recognize the mobilization of professionals in the medical and social sector and their participation in the management of the health crisis, the Government has announced an exceptional premium, financed by health insurance, for professionals in medical and social institutions and services financed or co-financed by health insurance, regardless of their status, and therefore without any distinction between EHPADs. In order to take account of the remarkable investment made by professionals working at home with vulnerable audiences, we have ensured that the exemption scheme for the new exceptional premium created in the context of the health crisis can be applied to home support and accompaniment services for the elderly and disabled. Thus, each department, depending on the specificities of its territory and the financial resources it considers appropriate to mobilize, will have the opportunity to provide such compensation to the employers it otherwise finances and who have chosen a payment. The Government is also working, within the framework of the reform relating to old age and autonomy, on concrete responses to the structural difficulties of the older age sector, particularly with regard to home support. It is important to recognize, support and value the daily engagement of these professionals with our seniors or people with disabilities. In order to meet the sector's expectations in the long term, work will be started very soon, following the recommendations of Mrs Myriam El Khomri's report in favour of the attractiveness of older occupations. In addition to the central question of the evolution of remuneration, which will be the subject of specific exchanges with all the players in the sector, other levers exist, which relate to the evolution of skills, the construction of a logic of career paths, the reduction of occupational risks and the increase of entry into training. With a view to achieving concrete measures, the issues related to the attractiveness of these trades are currently the subject of exchanges with all the partners involved; The aim is to bring about a shared plan, integrated into the broader reflection of the reform on the old age and autonomy that we are carrying out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u12	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u13	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. However, my question was on two points. I had written to Mr.Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, about the first of them, in order to understand why a department extremely affected by the crisis of the Covid-19 saw some of its institutions excluded from the premium. We have still not received a satisfactory answer to this question. As for home helpers, 2000 people are affected in Ardèche. It is clear that taking into account the specificities and fiscal wealth of each department will prevent some of them from allocating this premium in the most desirable way. Your answer does not satisfy us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u14	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor to put his question, No. 1090, on manipulators in medical electroradiology.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u15	Madam Secretary of State, we all welcome the extraordinary mobilisation of our hospital staff during the health crisis. Their commitment and dedication have saved thousands of lives. The recognition they are expecting now requires wage increases and additional human resources. Among these heroes are those who practice an unknown profession: manipulators in medical electroradiology. It was they who made the thoracic scanners and the pulmonary X-rays necessary for the diagnosis of patients with covid -19. Despite their vital role in the care chain, these 35,000 radio manipulators suffer from a chronic lack of consideration from their guardianship. The latest reforms have even deteriorated their pay and career development. In fact, a radio manipulator, graduated baccalaureate + 3, starts at 1300 euros net per month. After nine years of service, he receives only 1680 euros net. This level of remuneration contributes to the loss of attractiveness of the trade, where it is now difficult to recruit. In addition, radio manipulators are regularly the biggest forgotten of the exceptional premiums paid to caregivers. Even though they were entitled to the covid premium, they had previously been excluded from the so-called Buzyn premium. This injustice feeds a growing malaise in the profession, which feels like contempt. Like their hospital colleagues, medical electroradiology manipulators call for the thawing of the index point and the creation of new posts. Indeed, they are subjected to ever more sustained rhythms. In Valenciennes, a radio manipulator carries out examinations for twenty to thirty people a day. In the hospital community, the hard research of performance and performance undermines the time spent on the patient, the humanity inherent in the caregiving profession. The solution is obvious: for more humanity in our hospitals, more staff is needed. Finally, radio manipulators call for the restoration of their seniority, deleted during the implementation of the PPCR, the protocol on career paths, careers and remuneration. Poorly paid, little considered, they were deprived by this reform of another year granted every ten years. They also ask for recognition of the hardness of their profession. Daily exposed to ionizing radiation, they should be able to have a right to early retirement. Madam Secretary of State, it is high time to hear this profession, which is very invested in its missions, which deserves to be respected and better recognized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u16	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u17	Hospital professionals, as you recalled, have been on the front line to respond to the covid-19 epidemic and have demonstrated exemplary commitment. This is, of course, the case of hospital electroradiology manipulators, who have played a major role in treating patients with covid-19 and adapting care during this period of health crisis. The epidemic occurred at a time when the issue of the attractiveness of many professions arose in the hospital. In particular, in order to respond to this situation and to recognise the commitment of hospital professionals, the Ségur de la santé began on 25 May last with a meeting of the actors of the sector in the presence of the Prime Minister. Conclusions will be made in the coming days and important decisions will be made. These will increase hospital salaries and increase career attractiveness. With regard to manipulators in medical electroradiology, these measures will complement the upgrading of the index grids, completed on 1 January 2020, which resulted in a significant increase in their basic treatment. Since January 2020, the payment of a territorial attractiveness premium has been extended to medical electroradiology manipulators recruited by institutions of the hospital public service and located in territories in tension. This premium, amounting to a gross annual amount of EUR 940, could be awarded to staff whose annual net remuneration is less than the median annual net salary of the hospital civil service. We must now develop a comprehensive and ambitious strategy to support the attractiveness of all professions in the hospital, including radio manipulators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u18	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to put his question, No. 1092, on the future of the French hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u19	Madam Secretary of State, I had planned to question you about the transfer of the Dragon 63 helicopter to Lozère during the months of July and August, without consultation with elected officials and health professionals. Professor Schmidt, head of the emergency department of Clermont-Ferrand's university hospital centre – CHU – declared that he had never been closely or far involved in the discussions that led to this decision, which, for him, made no sense. However, last night, the Minister of the Interior, based on the report of the Director General of Civil Security, whom we met on Friday, overturned the decision that the Prefect of Lozère had announced prematurely. We welcome this and I thank the minister for acknowledging this mistake. This story must serve as a lesson. Such decisions must be the subject of an interdepartmental approach. Having recalled this, I would like to draw your attention to the difficulties faced by emergency services in small and medium-sized cities such as Moulins, in my constituency of Allier. We are suffering from a chronic shortage of emergency doctors. At Moulins, there are seven of them, while at least two of them would be needed. In the other two cities of the Allier with an emergency department in the hospital centre, Vichy and Montluçon, the situation is hardly brighter. Every summer, it is a mess and the idea was even issued, before being abandoned, to shut down alternately in each city the emergency department. In Moulins, 70% of hospitalized people go through emergencies. It is therefore the very future of the hospital that can be threatened in the long term if emergency capacity is weakened. Staff are subjected to severely degraded working conditions, which cause exhaustion or even discouragement. Madam Secretary of State, the question of the means available to the hospital, whether in terms of staff or pay recognition, has long been raised. The health crisis that we have just experienced has highlighted these demands and hospital staff are calling, again and rightly, for mobilization today. What policy of recruitment into emergency services does the Government intend to pursue so that hospitals such as that in Moulins can fulfil their public service mission under undegraded conditions? What additional means can you find to alleviate the current difficulties, which will be amplified during the summer?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u20	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u21	With regard to the possibility of a temporary transfer of the Dragon 63 helicopter from the Clermont-Ferrand base from 1 July for a period of up to two months, in view of the tensions it caused and the interventions of the elected officials, the Minister of the Interior asked the Director of Civil Security for a report, which convinced him to reconsider that decision; A national gendarmerie aircraft will be temporarily positioned in Mende to cover the relief mission essential to that territory. Despite the constraints, the Government will continue to allocate the necessary resources to assist the inhabitants and tourists of your region during the summer. As for the lack of attractiveness and staff of emergency services, we agree with your observation. Work had been initiated under the "My Health 2022" plan to provide solutions, including the removal of the numerus clausus. Like many other countries around the world, France must increase the number of its doctors, but we know that it will take time. At the same time, we must ensure a better articulation between city medicine and the hospital. The "My Health 2022" plan contributed to this. The Ségur de la santé is also interested in the attractiveness and upgrading of trades; A €6 billion package was announced last week by the Minister of Solidarity and Health for medical and medical-social personnel. We are currently in a phase of consultation, and even negotiation, on four pillars; the upgrading and attractiveness of trades are part of this. It is sometimes by lifting the brakes of everyday life that we allow professionals to exercise their profession in better conditions – the crisis of the covid -19 has shown this. The solutions that will be adopted for health professionals, both in the city and in the hospital, must come from the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u22	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor to put his question, No. 1099, on the reorganization of regional health agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u23	My question is to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, but it may also be of interest to the Minister of Territorial Cohesion. The aim is to learn from the functioning of regional health agencies – RHAs – or rather from their dysfunction. These institutions, created in 2009, are now openly criticized by their breeders, like the president of the AMF, the Association of Mayors of France; The crisis has indeed revealed their weaknesses. The SRAs were supposed to be prefectures of public health, but the transfer of powers at regional level proved difficult to manage a crisis of proximity, thus confirming the dysfunctions we are experiencing. They had been identified, in my constituency, on the occasion of an epidemic of tuberculosis in Smarves. While RSAs are relevant tools for managing large masses – this has been the case for the transfer of patients from one region to another – they are far too heavy, far too distant, far too far away to manage a covid -19 or tuberculosis outbreak. That is why, by drawing on the successes of the departmental units of the regional business directorates, of competition, of consumption, of work and of employment – DIRECCTE – who have had to deal with partial unemployment, or of the prefectures, which have had to manage the opening of markets and the closure of parks, we suggest to departmentalize the functioning of the ARS. What are the Government's intentions and timetable for the reorganization of the State services to bring the SRA closer to the citizens, in particular through a greater presence of the citizens at the departmental level?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u24	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u25	The management of the health crisis has highlighted the need to reflect on the evolution of regional health agencies. It will be necessary to strengthen their capacity to adapt the national health policy guidelines to the territories. Indeed, while the regional scale has proved decisive for taking into account the inequalities between territories in the hospital response, in particular in order to pilot the rise in resuscitation capacities, the strengthening of the territorial anchoring of RHAs is now necessary in order to systematize a response of proximity, nourished by a permanent dialogue with the actors of the territory, namely health professionals and local and regional authorities. Let me pay tribute to the commitment of these women and men, agents of the SRA, who, through their mobilization and their daily work over the last few weeks, have helped us to manage the crisis of the Covid-19. The law of 24 July 2019 on the organisation and transformation of the health system allowed us to start a first transformation of the RHAs by strengthening the departmental level. The decision to appoint departmental delegates to the functional positions of departmental directors improves the attractiveness and legitimacy of these positions. The prerogatives of the departmental directors are extended so that they can best exercise their functions in their territory, which is, even more than in the past, identified as the space for building responses to the health needs of our fellow citizens. The work carried out within the framework of the Ségur de la Santé has shown the need to make the action of the SRA more readable at the departmental level, based on territorial forums for dialogue with elected representatives and on a contract of common objectives, based on the model of local health contracts. Many elected officials have put forward proposals to transform the role and missions of the RSAs; The debate is open and we will listen to suggestions from the field. In any case, the answers will be provided under the fourth pillar of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u26	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u27	We agree on this, which is a good start to moving forward together. The work of SRA officers is not at issue. The question concerns the territorial organisation of SRAs. You have responded in part through the regulatory measures you have announced that draw lessons from the crisis. You refer for the rest to the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé, scheduled for mid-July. Believe me, I'll pay special attention to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u28	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to put her question, No. 1120, on the conditions for the award of the premium to carers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u29	There are disparities within the same territories that the experiences of caregivers and the population do not seem to justify; Thus, in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, only one hospital is eligible for the €1,500 covid premium. In my department, the organization has been defined within the GHT, the territory hospital group: all the services of the hospital centres have been reorganized and the patients hospitalized in the acute phase have been distributed between the two main hospitals, Digne-les-Bains and Manosque. The hospital of Digne, prefecture of the department, has the only resuscitation service of the department; it is the headquarters of the SAMU-centre 15; So he found himself in the front line to take care of and treat the patients of the covid-19. Moreover, the hospital was a referral centre covid -19. However, according to the first announcements, the allocation of the EUR 1500 premium was to concern the reference centres. Yet, despite this commitment, nurses at this hospital are not eligible for the €1500 premium, unlike their colleagues in Manosque. This situation gives rise to a strong incomprehension, a strong sense of inequality, while it is unity and solidarity that have effectively fought against the covid-19 in my territory. It also constitutes an inequality of treatment with the neighbouring departments of the Hautes-Alpes and Vaucluse, even though the number of cases was not less in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence. One can understand the sense of abandonment of caregivers, who do not feel that they are considered at the level of their investment: they are not under-carers! What criteria and how can such differential treatment be justified?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u30	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u31	The management of the covid-19 epidemic required an exceptional mobilization of all hospital staff. In recognition of this, the Government has decided that all personnel should receive a bonus of 500 euros for their engagement during the crisis. Nevertheless, the impact of the epidemic has not been the same across the country. Some departments have been more severely affected and staff in health facilities have been particularly exposed. In order to recognise the special conditions of mobilisation, a premium of EUR 1500 was awarded to these personnel. In addition, in the less affected departments, some facilities have also been at the forefront of the management of patients with covid-19, particularly in some services. By decision of the Director, up to 40% of the staff in these establishments were entitled to an increase in the premium. The hospitals concerned were identified based on the average number of covid-19 positive daily patients hospitalized, reported to the institution's capacity – at least fourteen covid patients -19 received on average during the peak period defined in the decree, i.e. March and April 2020, or a rate of occupancy of hospital beds by patients with covid-19 greater than 15%. These criteria have been applied in the same way throughout the national territory. The regulations governing the premiums provide for an increase in the premium in cases of reinforcement or support of medical evacuations. However, the assessment of the criteria is the responsibility of the institutions. The rapid payment of a premium to all hospital staff was, in our view, a necessary but not sufficient measure. One of the objectives of the Ségur de la santé is precisely to upgrade the professions in this sector. In the coming days, announcements will be made to realize the collective will to recognize the commitment of professionals in the hospital world and their specific role in our social model and to restore the attractiveness of these professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u32	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u33	We still do not understand the criteria for allocating the premium. Within the GHT, we see no difference between the hospitals in Digne and Manosque. This unequal treatment leads to a great lack of understanding among caregivers, who feel deeply injured. We therefore ask for a little more details, including how to account for patients diagnosed as positive for covid-19. On the eve of the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé, it seems to me necessary to make adjustments and to dialogue with health professionals who wish to be listened to, in order to regain their confidence as well as that of a population that is now feeling abandoned. The department of the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence is not treated in the same way as its neighbours, in which, it seems, there are proportionately fewer cases. Instead of gathering, this bonus divided. That really wasn't what we needed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u34	Indeed, the problem arises in many places.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u35	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to put her question, No. 1088, on the restructuring plan for the regional and university hospital in Nancy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u36	On April 3, 2020, in the midst of the crisis of the covid -19, Christophe Lannelongue, then Managing Director of the ARS du Grand Est, announced that the restructuring plan for Nancy's regional and university hospital centre – CHRU – was maintained. It wasn't a joke! The plan, validated by COPERMO, the Interdepartmental Committee on the Performance and Modernization of the Supply of Hospital Care, provided for the elimination of 498 jobs and 174 beds. Faced with the outcry caused by this announcement, made even though the fragility of our public hospitals seemed to everyone, Emmanuel Macron announced, on April 8, 2020, the dismissal of Christophe Lannelongue. Sign of a turn in his policy of destroying the public hospital? Nothing is less certain, because at the same time, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health claimed that all these sinister restructuring plans were not removed, but suspended – suspended like a sword of Damocles over the public hospital. At Nancy's CHRU, uncertainty is hovering. All the caregivers who have, for two months, intubated, revived and treated hundreds of patients in deplorable material conditions, wonder: will their hospital lose 500 jobs and 174 beds? The assumption of an abolition of 1000 posts is even relayed in the press. This ineptity doesn't amuse them – it doesn't amuse me either. Nothing has been officially announced yet. I therefore solemnly ask you, Madam Secretary of State: is the plan for the restructuring of the hospital in Nancy, validated by COPERMO, definitively abandoned? After the crisis that we've been through, will the hospital's debt be wiped out? In the midst of health, expectations are strong, your words engage you and all eyes are turned towards you. The officers will meet this afternoon at 2 p.m. in front of Nancy's SRA. I beg you to believe that your answer this morning is very much awaited!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u37	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u38	Nancy's CHRU is spread over seven sites, two of which are five kilometres away: Brabois, on the outskirts, and urban hospitals, including historic maternity, in the city centre. You will agree that this break-up in several sites mechanically limits efficiency and performance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u39	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u40	In order to remedy this, the CHRU has for several years begun a reflection on a modernization project, which has focused on a massive consolidation of activities at the Brabois site. This investment of EUR 515 billion will strengthen the location of the establishment in its territory. Presented to COPERMO at the end of 2019, this case received a favourable opinion. The funding plan included not only improved institutional efficiency, but also significant public support, accounting for nearly 63% of the total investment. Today, the analysis prism of this type of file needs to be reviewed. It is up to the public authority to identify the necessary resources and allocate them to health facilities within a framework that will enable them to fulfil the tasks entrusted to them, and this framework will be different. However, the architectural project advocated by the CHRU remains relevant and necessary to guarantee a modern and quality care offer in the Far East. The Secur de la santé will clarify the conditions for applying this project in the wake of the covid -19 epidemic. You get the support of all agents and COPERMO for your project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u41	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u42	Madam Secretary of State, you are bringing good news! You're right, we need a modern care offer. However, with regard to the two sites you mentioned, I would like to point out that the provision of care in the city includes not only a maternity hospital, but also a central hospital with a resuscitation service – I know that, since I have practiced there. During the crisis of the covid -19, we saw well that we lacked resuscitation beds. It is not because there are two hospitals that there are fewer patients! Mathematically speaking, they won't be. We will therefore need at least as many beds – and you have just confirmed that we would not close them – and all the more, if not more staff. Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer and for telling me that the restructuring plan announced by Mr Lannelongue was cancelled. That's very good news for Nancy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u43	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u44	I call Mrs Laurence Dumont to speak on her question No 1116 on the partial arrangements for activities in public establishments running a public administrative service.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u45	During confinement, activity was, of course, slowed down or even stopped in many economic sectors. Thanks to appropriate health protocols, however, in some of them it has been able to gradually restart. For the world of culture, the prospects for this recovery – in what form? When? - they've been waiting. If the future finally emerges, it will take a long time before the theatres, the concert halls, the cinemas, the operas find their audience, and therefore recipes. The brutal cessation of programming has severely penalized all these cultural places financially. Performances have been cancelled and reimbursements for tickets have been made. This has weakened structures, especially those excluded from partial unemployment measures. Thus, the public institutions running a public administrative service, or SPA, including operas, were denied access to this system for non-permanent artists under private law, who are covered by labour law, as they employ – a decision all the more incomprehensible as DIRECCTE, in Tours, Nancy or Marseilles, had given their consent. This could weaken a significant proportion of artists' employers in France and lead to employment for many years. It therefore seems to me urgent, in the name of equal treatment in the national territory, that all public institutions managing a PPS should have access to the partial unemployment scheme for non-permanent artists under private law whom they employ. Mr Minister of Culture, when does the Government intend to issue such guidelines to all departments and DIRECCTEs in France?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u46	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u47	Mrs Dumont, you are right: the cultural sector has been hit hard by the health crisis, with economic, social, psychological and, of course, very heavy artistic consequences. The Government has mobilized since the beginning of the crisis to enable this sector to benefit from the cross-cutting arrangements to which other sectors of activity have been entitled. It has sometimes been necessary to interact with professionals in the sector to identify the specificities, in particular legal ones, of certain institutions, certain professions and certain statutes. We have ensured that the beneficiaries of the unemployment insurance scheme of the so-called intermittent entertainment scheme – cultural professionals, artists and technicians of live performance or audiovisual arts – have access to the partial activity scheme. The same was true for short-term contract holders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u48	Answer the question, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u49	This is what I am doing since I am talking about the partial activity device, which was the subject of your question. The associations also had access to them to pay their employees. This was still the case for public institutions. The scheme has been created to ensure that the institutions continue to pay salaries, particularly in the entertainment sector, despite the drop in revenues that you have rightly mentioned. Unlike associations and companies, however, institutions, which mostly benefit from public subsidies, are not deprived of revenue. However, some of these institutions are facing a decline in revenue, particularly as a result of falling inflows, which for them constitute additional revenue. We have therefore made a very clear commitment to establish an ad hoc fund to ensure that salaries for these institutions are maintained during confinement. If these PPS, which mainly have public resources, cannot benefit from the partial activity scheme, they will therefore not suffer negative economic consequences as long as they retain their employees. The State is therefore at the rendezvous, since it supports these institutions and, through them, employment in the entertainment sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u50	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u51	[[Minister makes a sign of denial]] This is not the first time I have asked you the question, minister, and this is not the first time you have answered it completely next door – you are talking to me about the intermittents of the show and the employees of the cultural structures, while I am talking to you about non-permanent artists under private law. For these artists, some DIRECCTE have allowed operas, for example those of Caen, Tours, Nancy, Marseilles, to use the partial unemployment scheme. Don't say no, I have copies of these decisions with me! These structures have therefore benefited from the partial unemployment scheme and all the others have not. This unequal treatment is inconceivable. Partial unemployment is a right. However, in some departments there is access and in others there is no access. Again, you have not answered this essential question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u52	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u53	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Marie Fiévet, to put his question, No. 1096, concerning the public establishment of the Poitevin Marsh.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u54	In order to give new impetus to the coordination of water management and the preservation of biodiversity in the Poitevin Marsh, France's second wetland, the public establishment of this territory, the EPM, was created in 2010 by the then minister of ecology. The involvement of elected officials and the administration has led to a common and long-term vision for the organization of this institution. Nevertheless, the circular of 5 June 2019 on central government transformation and new working methods has changed the organisation of the EPC. On the ground, however, the proper functioning of this structure was recognized, thanks to experts whose qualities are certain. A change in the management of this public institution would undermine the sustainability of its effectiveness. So, Mr. Secretary of State, could you clarify how this circular is to be applied, as well as the intentions of the Government with regard to public establishments such as that of the Poitevin Marsh, which has 630000 hectares, spans three departments, Charente-Maritime, Vendée and Deux-Sèvres, and two regions, Pays de la Loire and New Aquitaine – territories that you know well?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u55	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u56	The Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has instructed me to reply to you. By the circular of 5 June 2019 on central government transformation and new working methods, which you mentioned, the Prime Minister asked the administrations to justify the maintenance of structures whose size did not exceed 100 full-time equivalents, by committing them to propose justified deletions and consolidations. The public establishment of the Poitevin Marsh is recognized by all for its essential role in mediation in this territory and for its highly appreciated expertise. With a view to pooling resources, in 2018 the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition attached the EPM to the French Biodiversity Office – OFB – in order to enable it to benefit partly from its support for its support functions, the training of its agents and the exploitation of its expertise in national networks. However, in 2018, an inspection and a report by the Court of Auditors invited the State to reflect on the most robust institutional organisation so that it could fulfil its tasks in the years to come. In addition, the facility's response framework has evolved as the implementation of aquatic management and flood prevention – GEMAPI – in communities would theoretically allow them to fulfill part of the EMP's mission. At the end of 2019, the ministry asked the prefect coordinator of the state's actions for the Poitevin Marsh to launch a three-year local consultation in order to outline a sustainable organisation of water and biodiversity policies. However, the health crisis has upset the timing of this consultation, which was scheduled to begin in March 2020; However, it should be launched this summer with all actors in the territory. The situation of the facility will therefore be clarified in the light of this work and the recommendations made in the fall.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u57	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u58	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u59	The floor is open to Mrs Barbara Bessot Ballot, to put forward her question, No. 1097, on the place of the social and solidarity economy in the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u60	The social and solidarity economy, ESS, is now part of the economic and social landscape: it accounts for about 10% of gross domestic product in France and Europe. Because it is at the heart of many reflections on the post-covid -19 economy and society, we have every reason to imagine that in terms of ESS, we can do better and go further, faster and stronger. The ESS is perhaps even becoming the economic model of tomorrow. Everything therefore suggests that the ESS must be at the heart of the recovery plan. I would like to commend the commitment and actions of the Government – in particular the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition – which, during this difficult period, has deployed an unprecedented support mechanism to support thousands of ESS structures. In particular, a liaison unit has been set up between the High Commission for the Social and Solidarity Economy and Social Innovation and the representative organisations of the ESS. At the origin of solutions, known as tomorrow's, which must now be speeded up, ESS has its full role to play. Entrepreneurship, thanks to the company, is the natural vector of the energy needed for the economic, ecological and inclusive shift that it is imperative to take. Sustainable food, circular economy, collaborative economy, mobility, digital, culture, dependency: in all these areas and in many others, the transformative power of the ESS must be the thread of public action for the months and years to come. We must live up to our ambitions to support all those who wish to take part in this process. While our priority is to rebuild a strong, ecological, sovereign and supportive economy, while everywhere voices are raised to move the lines and build a fairer, more responsible, greener economic model, the ESS, thanks to its values of solidarity, responsibility, utility, innovation and efficiency, as well as its ecological values, must occupy a central place in this economy of resilience, ambitious and virtuous, which we all wish. What actions are planned by the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition to ensure that the social and solidarity economy has its full place in the country's recovery plan and contributes fully to the construction of an economically, socially and ecologically sustainable future?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u61	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u62	Ms Élisabeth Borne, Minister of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, told me to reply that social and solidarity economy companies have been on the front line to meet the challenge of the health crisis. Hospitals, EHPAD, community associations, agricultural cooperatives: all participated, at their level, in the continuity of the activity – and I thank them very much. You accurately note the relevance of the solutions provided by the ESS for tomorrow's economy. It is true that this crisis has given us an opportunity to question our model of society, our model of production and consumption, and I am one of those who believe that we can and must go further, to defend a more ecological and supportive economic model. ESS cannot and should not be confined to a sector, as it is a way of reconciling economics, ecology and social affairs. The measures in the recovery plan will therefore also benefit companies with this vision in agriculture, tourism, health, industry, circular economy and culture – to name but a few. This plan should serve as a lever for decisively accelerating the ecological and solidarity transition and the High Commissioner for the Social and Solidarity Economy and Social Innovation is working to develop support and transformation measures, closer to the territories, in collaboration with the actors in the sector, in particular with the Higher Council for the Social and Solidarity Economy. I would therefore like to reassure you, Madam Member: the Government will be at the rendezvous to make ESS the spearhead of the necessary transition of our society to a more low-carbon and socially just society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u63	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor to put his question, No. 1104, on the development of Châteauroux airport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u64	Mr Secretary of State for Transport, you are particularly well placed and competent enough to know that air passenger traffic and air traffic in general will explode in the coming years. At the same time, in the airport area, we have to deal with spatial planning issues. The cessation of the Notre-Dame-des-Landes project had led the Prime Minister to announce a great reflection on the networking of the airport platforms of the Great West. I had, at the time, as well as the president of the region, to whom I had asked, written to the Prime Minister and the member of the Government responsible for transport, asking them that the airports of Tours and Châteauroux be included in this reflection – but we did not get any answer. More broadly, it is clear that this is a spatial planning issue that is also linked to what we have just experienced. How can we win back the territories? Should we always spend more public money on the same platforms – I am thinking of Orly, who is saturated, and Roissy, who will also likely be saturated within ten years, even with a fourth terminal? The question is very simple, Mr Secretary of State: is the Government ready to consider using existing platforms? This is how I come to Châteauroux Airport. I said, in the region Centre-Val de Loire, there is the airport of Tours and that of Châteauroux, the airport Marcel-Dassault, which are likely to experience an important development. The latter has one of the main routes in Europe; it is already extremely active in the industrial field, in aviation maintenance, as well as in the field of freight – as was seen in the context of the crisis of the covid -19, when it served as a discreet platform in the field of sensitive and medical cargo. In addition, this platform is directly linked to the Paris-Limoges-Toulouse rail link via Orléans. The 3.5 kilometres of branch line, which would allow special trains from the Paris train station in Austerlitz to arrive directly on the tarmac of the Marcel Dassault airport, have been completely renovated and financed by the Centre-Val de Loire region. It would thus be possible to save considerable time thanks to a platform located two hours away from Paris; This would allow police formalities to be carried out inside special trains, as is done to England or Belgium, and to avoid the movement of many passengers by car. They would be on scheduled charter flights – I am aware that we cannot rely on regular lines – thus deburring Orly and Roissy, which would free up take-off and landing slots in a period that will see the air movements of passengers explode. I have tried to summarize a complex issue, but the issue is simple: is our country ready to pursue an airport planning policy, which would build on existing platforms and thus create employment in rural areas? Mr Secretary of State, you are well aware of the subject since Limoges is facing this problem. In the context of this reconquest of territories, is the Government prepared to seriously study the development of Marcel Dassault airport in Châteauroux, an airport that possesses all the qualities to develop the scheduled flights that would give the Orly and Roissy platforms the oxygen they need so much?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u65	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u66	I am well aware of the platform on which you are interrogating me for having made my first flight on a jet now many years ago. It is dear to my memory, and I confirm that the state will be with it to support its development model, a model that it will choose according to its relevance. I welcome the strategies which have prevailed so far and which have proved to be particularly costly, if I may say, in the context of the health crisis, for the transport of sensitive and medical freight. The airport was able to adopt a relevant strategy concerning the freight market, the training of airline pilots and the air industry in general. The State intends to take its full part in supporting the platform. The Directorate-General for Civil Aviation has consistently granted and continues to grant the requested flight permits to Châteauroux airport. Contrary to what I have heard about this airport or others, traffic rights do not hinder the development of services. The administration will support this development in a very proactive manner. The State also intends to recall that the airport has an air traffic control service and the presence of an air transport gendarmerie brigade, which, in particular, enables its commercial development towards passenger service. The State finances the construction of a new control tower for a total of €3 million to open a new 10000 square metre maintenance hangar. These are also activities that carry out...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u67	Funded by the region!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u68	That's what I was going to say, Congressman. The Government will remain with the communities to support them in their projects and to implement, within the framework of its competencies, the best policies for land-use planning and settlement. You mentioned my election territory: I am obviously very sensitive to these questions, and I will be at your disposal to talk more concretely about the development of the Châteauroux platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u69	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u70	I take note that we will work on the development project of the Marcel Dassault airport, with a view to a connection to the Paris passenger air transport platform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u71	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor to put his question, No. 1105, on the place of methanisation in the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u72	Secretary of State, the world after must be greener, more sovereign, more local. It is imperative to rethink our country's energy mix around sustainable development and strategic relocation. I would therefore like to know what place you intend to give to methanisation in the recovery plan, with a view to developing this sector. Today, there are strong concerns. First of all, they concern installations, as there is a blurring of the criteria applied by the DREALs, the regional environmental, planning and housing directorates, to grant or refuse the passage, under the environmental protection facilities classified as ICPE, from the reporting regime to the registration regime for methanizers exceeding the threshold of 150 cubic metres per hour. What are the instructions? Are they territorialized? Are they governed by budgetary considerations? This is an essential criterion for existing projects, which can provide a source of growth. Then there is a concern about the buy-back price. The 2011 Decree is to be revised. When do you plan to adopt a new decree, and with what financial perspective? Finally, there is a considerable delay in the practical implementation of the right to injection, which is vital for many projects. Why not urgently release the investment capacity of network operators by removing administrative constraints and removing the decree capping these investments to 0.4% of the turnover of gas distributors? Methanization is an adequate response to many critical issues: it is circular and renewable in nature, and has an excellent carbon footprint; it allows for the substitution of chemical fertilizers for renewable fertilizers by means of digestates; With more than 17500 non-relocable jobs today, it is a beautiful tool for revitalizing rural areas; it contributes to the emergence of a new path of excellence; It responds to a logic of territory. Above all, it contributes to our energy autonomy in the face of natural gas suppliers who are also often our major strategic competitors. In short, it is urgent to revise the PPE, the multi-annual energy programming, by speeding things up and raising the biomethane target from 25 terawatt hours in 2028 to 12 terawatt hours by 2023, especially since there are 3000 full-time equivalents to the key. What is your plan for a project that we all support, whatever benches we sit on?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u73	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u74	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u75	Ms Élisabeth Borne, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, to whom this question was originally addressed, asked me to answer you, Mr. Of course, the Government is supporting the development of methanization, particularly for the development of biomethane by injection into natural gas networks, an emerging sector that has developed strongly in recent months and has now reached a stage of maturity. This is an activity that requires significant public support, as the cost of producing biomethane, of 102 euros per megawatt hour in 2018, is significantly higher during natural gas, i.e. 23 euros per megawatt hour on the same date. Within the framework of the multi-annual energy programme, in order to promote the development of biomethane production, the Government has already increased the budget allocated to support this sector from EUR 7.9 billion to EUR 9.7 billion. The EPP reaffirms the State's support for the development of methanisation, anchored in the territories, by reconciling an ambitious growth objective and a target of controlling the public support envelope by means of a reduction in production costs, taking into account the level of maturity and structuring of the sector. The Government is considering the demand from the industry for a further increase in the budget envelope, as well as for non-budgetary support measures. In addition, measures to support projects or facilities affected by the health crisis are in place or planned. The annual ceiling for aid for the strengthening of natural gas networks for the connection of methanisation plants has been set in line with the development objectives of the sector. Exchanges are under way with natural gas system operators to explore prospects for strengthening natural gas networks in the coming years and to re-evaluate ceilings where appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u76	Mr Jean-Louis Thiériot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u77	It's expected! The demand for the sector is strong. In Seine-et-Marne, where I am elected, the most advanced department of Ile-de-France in the field of methanisation, some 20 projects are now blocked because the right to injection is not a reality. I understand that there are discussions and negotiations, but they should be concluded very quickly. [[Mr. Nicolas Forissier applauds]] I reiterate that attention should be paid to the authorisations granted by DREAL to existing facilities. Raising the threshold, now 150 cubic metres, would generate additional investment, which would give access to high pressure and, as a result, to injection networks. The whole approach to the development of the sector would thus be consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u78	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to put his question, No. 1106, on the Aurillac-Paris airline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u79	I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State for Transport to the situation of the Aurillac-Paris regional planning airline, whose operation was suspended on 23 March. Air France has recently proposed a resumption of flights starting in July, with three rotations per week, which is notoriously insufficient in view of the situation of confinement in which the prefecture of Cantal is located, distant from the capital seven hours by train and six hours by road – twelve hours, in the best case, for a round trip Aurillac-Paris. While the management department of this line has obviously validated the project and the principle of recovery, it must be noted that the proposed timetables, including a return from Paris in the middle of the afternoon, are unsuitable for a clientele of entrepreneurs and economic decision-makers, who cannot be satisfied with a stay of a few hours in Paris. That is why I ask once again, Mr Secretary of State, for your support and that of the State to obtain from the airline, as soon as possible, a return to normal operation in accordance with the specifications of the OSP – a public service obligation – without which one would compromise the resumption of economic activity and the launch of a tourist season of which the Cantal expects a great deal. We are also concerned that this return to normal would be accompanied by a request from the company for additional financial support from the communities, especially since the rate of filling of our aircraft, which was very satisfactory, now depends on a random resumption of economic activity. It is essential that the State accompany the managing authorities when they face additional costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u80	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u81	The Government is very attentive to the connectivity of the territories, especially the Cantal, which I know well. We have maintained some spatial planning lines. In this context, the Aurillac-Paris airline has been greatly strengthened following the conclusion of the national air transport bases. The covid-19 epidemic led to the closure of Orly Airport, which reopened on 26 June. Today, therefore, we have more favourable conditions for the resumption of the operation of the lines, in particular the one on which you are asking me. The flights operated by Air France on this line will resume under the conditions of the public service delegation as of July according to the demand found, which today remains below what it was before the health crisis. As every year, the line will be cleared in August. The return to normal is scheduled for September, with two daily rotations that will allow to go back and forth in the day. Air France also undertook to increase flight frequencies if requested. On June 24, the company opened the ticket sale in accordance with the approved pick-up program, which we can only welcome. Be assured, Mr. Deputy, that the Government is mobilized to ensure the unhindered and economic vitality of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u82	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u83	Thank you for what you've done and I'll be grateful for what you're going to do, Secretary of State. Indeed, Air France cannot take refuge behind the fact that today the demand would be less important than before the interruption of flights, for the simple and good reason that it changed the offer: with three weekly rotations, on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, it itself tarnished the demand – the one who wants to go to Paris is forced to lose two or even three days of his work week. I specifically ask you to weigh your weight so that we can get back to normal as soon as possible. We cannot be satisfied with the current functioning. We ask you to help us get satisfaction from the airline. You know that because you have been interested in the file, which I thank you for, the Aurillac-Paris airline is vital for the economy of the Cantal department: a Cantalian businessman cannot imagine leaving on Mondays and returning on Wednesdays if he has only a two-hour appointment in Paris. It defies understanding! In the same way, if he needs to host a professional contact, such as an executive from a purchasing centre, he cannot offer to interrupt his activity for three days to travel to Aurillac. This line is vital to us. Tomorrow will open the summer season; However, you have reminded him, because of his size, the line is unloaded in August. It is therefore imperative that we obtain satisfaction as early as July. This concern is shared by colleagues from many other departments: the question arises in Aveyron, in Corrèze – a territory you know particularly well – or in Castres. This line is, I repeat, vital for the economy of Cantal. The airline, which received very substantial support from the State during this period, must be at the rendezvous of the spatial planning links. The landing at Orly is another debate, which we may have an opportunity to open later. For the time being, the emergency is the return to normal functioning. Thank you for what you will do for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u85	Mr Alain Bruneel spoke about his question, No. 1091, concerning TGV links between Douai and Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u86	During the first two weeks after the de-consolidation, the gradual resumption of activities, including road traffic, led to the rise of pollutants in the atmosphere. However, emissions had fallen sharply, having been divided by four. If the next day is to be different from the previous day, drastic measures must be taken to promote public transport. You have to choose the soft modes, the public transport: that of buses and trains. Environmental associations, political parties and trade unions have been campaigning in this direction for years. The citizens' convention for the climate confirmed the correctness of these demands. My question will be about the TGV links between Douai and Paris. Two directs were removed last year. The rail supply has been reduced instead of expanding. It is now impossible to leave Paris by direct TGV after eighteen hours fifty-two; It is also impossible to reach the capital before eight o'clock. I, who make the trip regularly, guarantee you that this new grid represents a huge brake on mobility. A new timetable was removed from the hat, without impact assessment: the train of nineteen hours fifty and one was replaced by a TGV at twenty-two hours nine – a ghost train that will probably be removed in turn due to lack of attendance. All of these changes have important consequences for lifestyles and work-related constraints. Douai loses its attractiveness in favour of the metropolises where transport flows are concentrated. To get the right TGV, you have to take the car and go to Lille, at the risk of falling into traffic and polluting the planet even more; or else, you have to move – the local press has already reported several examples of citizens forced to leave their city of heart because of these new schedules. SNCF replied that it was not yet possible to measure the effects of the new grid. For my part, I remain convinced that we do not develop usages by closing links. The trains used are not removed to try an uncertain bet, especially since the SNCF told me that the reasons for these changes were economical: the path must be profitable to be competitive in the competition. We can no longer tolerate such choices. The President of the Republic stated during the crisis that it was necessary to know how to reinvent himself. Well, let's reinvent ourselves! After having been received by your cabinet, after having multiplied the letters and the inquiries, I wish, Mr. Secretary of State, that we should get back to a table with the elected representatives of the territory and SNCF Network to review the schedule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u87	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u88	I would be pleased to welcome you to put the book back on the job, Mr. Member of Parliament! As you know, during 2019, the construction of the TGV service offering for 2020 had led to numerous exchanges between SNCF, the regional council and all the communities concerned. Following the presentation of a first project that had not been considered satisfactory, further discussions between SNCF and the communities, which the Government had followed closely, had led to improved service to the territories. In 2020, the city of Douai is thus connected to Paris by six daily round trips, only one less than as part of the 2019 transport plan. In addition, the region and SNCF have strengthened interregional links between the main cities and the metropolis of Lille, in TER or TERGV – regional high-speed express transport. As regards the annual service 2021, in accordance with the provisions introduced by the new railway pact which provides for mandatory information procedures for the territories before any evolution of the TGV services, the SNCF announced its plan for next year in April. In the Hauts-de-France, the company has planned – with a few exceptions – to extend it to the same level as its high-speed offer. Thus, the number of daily TGVs between Douai and Paris will remain the same in 2021. Only one modification is planned for travellers from Douai wishing to travel to Île-de-France via Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle: Douai will no longer be served in the morning at six o'clock thirty-six by the TGV Lille-Bordeaux, as today, but by a Lille-Marseille connection stopping in Douai at seven o'clock thirteen. The Government is committed to the quality of the dialogue between railway operators and the territories, and I look forward to seeing you soon to continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u89	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u90	I will ask the department for an appointment to discuss this schedule issue. The habits taken during the crisis period related to the covid-19 epidemic have stifled previous forecasts and SNCF has not renewed all of its schedules. Currently, only one or two TGVs allow me to reach Paris; There are many routes with connections, but more direct trains. So Douai risks losing its attractiveness. It is also an important city in judicial matters: many magistrates come from Paris. I would therefore like the timetable to be put down and discussed again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u91	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to put his question, No 1102, on the air service to Nice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u92	I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, about the service to Nice-Côte d'Azur airport, and therefore about the service to the whole south-east of France. You know the importance of the Nice airport platform, the second in France after the Paris airports. You know, to follow this file – thank you for that! – that it serves an otherwise largely landlocked territory, a kind of peninsula without a high-speed line or maritime service, except by cruisers. Today, the airport is the main driver of the economic activity of the French Riviera – the Alpes-Maritimes and, very broadly, the Var – with tourism accounting for 15% of the GDP of the Alpes-Maritimes and 150000 direct and indirect jobs. Indeed, the Côte d'Azur, like Paris, is a territory focused on tourism. The near-interruption of all air traffic has severely penalized our territory. Today we are worried; That is why I am asking you about the resumption of air traffic to the European capitals, as well as within the framework of the French internal lines. We feel, on the part of Air France, a huge chill, which I regret. The company has announced the resumption of just 35% of the traffic; This does not correspond to any economic reality and gives rise to an inconsistent offer of flights. This allows you to have two Paris-Nice flights ten minutes apart, but no service at the end of the day. This is important for the Alpes-Maritimes, but it is also important for France as a whole. Of course, we must respect the conditions of health security, but we cannot approach the summer season with a national company that provides only a third of the service to Nice airport! As one of the players in the case, you know that this company – which we support and defend, and to which we are attached – has received 7 billion euros of public money. This is very good, but it should not be spent solely on financing the company's departures; The logic of spatial planning, which must be at the heart of transport policies, must also be borne in mind. State aid, a sign of national solidarity, must also be accompanied by territorial solidarity. That is what Mr Benjamin Smith should understand, who seems far removed from these concerns! I count on you, the Government, to remind the national company that it must also carry out its mission, which is similar to that of a public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u93	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u94	You have traced the situation that has prevailed so far: a health crisis that has profoundly and sustainably affected air traffic, with a drastic reduction in supply – up to 98% at the height of the crisis. However, Paris-Nice was one of the links that were kept at the heart of the containment period to ensure derogatory travel. In the context of a gradual resumption of traffic, Air France guarantees its service from Paris to Nice and plans to gradually increase its frequencies up to 60% of its flight programme. In view of the geographical location of Nice, I asked Air France to review this increase and the national company undertook to offer an offer corresponding to at least 70% of the usual offer in the August contract. On the other hand, as you know, the company will reopen its shuttles in Orly on September 1st. In general, the Government is at the task not only to support the company's cash flow – the objective is to allow Air France to win back once the traffic is restored – but also to provide service to our territories, whose economic vitality justifies the public support provided to airlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u95	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u96	Thank you for this commitment. If we could double the service to the ads, our territory would greatly benefit. I stress the need to see this offer implemented very quickly. We're at the beginning of the summer season and July is important. This is a demand expressed by all economic actors, in particular by the Union for business – UPE – through its President, Philippe Renaudi. We are counting on you and I personally thank you for your engagement on this subject, which I know is of great interest to you. It is about the economic interest of the Alpes-Maritimes and, beyond that, the tourism policy of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u97	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u98	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u99	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to put his question, No. 1089, on the covid-19 premium for the professions that worked during the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u100	Magali, a maintenance officer, writes: "Hello. During confinement, I went to work and left my nine-year-old child alone all day. I took risks for my health. Not a euro bonus, no recognition, no reward. » Stephanie: "I'm a kindergarten assistant. I did not cease my activity during confinement. The State has been able to remind us that we are indispensable for the care of the children of the "necessary workers" during this crisis. And, of course, no bonus or thanks. » Juliette: "I'm a life helper. I worked through the entire confinement with fear in the belly. For a month, the company had no masks for us. Right after that, on the 13th of May, I collapsed. " I'm giving you two weeks off, " the doctor told me. "No, not fifteen days is too long," I protested, "it will overload the days of my colleagues." The doctor replied, "Minimum 15 days." My company just announced a bonus of 80 to 100 euros. 100 euros! It's a bounty of contempt, I don't want it. Let them keep her. » Gaëlle: "I testify for my mother. She is employed at a Contact Carrefour. At the beginning of confinement, she and her colleagues work without protection. We ask them for a little patience, and above all, we promise them the bonus of 1000 euros... the famous! Since her shop is considered by the Carrefour Group to be a "management rental", my mother and her colleagues received a premium of 150 euros gross – gross! For weeks of work in miserable conditions, it doesn't cost the hero. » Maxime: "Ambulants, we are responding urgently, mandated by the UAS. We have sent patients with Covid -19 for months, and we continue to do so. On the pretext that we are in the private sector, we do not have the right to the famous bonus. » Sébastien: "I'm a driver. During confinement, I delivered the Auchan stores every day. The boss didn't give us a bonus, saying we should already be happy to have been able to work and get our entire wages. No more heroes, we're back to the roadmen who shit on the road. » On 13 April last, the President of the Republic announced, solemnly: "We must remind ourselves that our entire country holds on to women and men whom our economies recognize and pay so badly. And the first sign of recognition, of compensation that he offered, was this covid -19 bonus. Frankly, I don't like these Macron bonuses: the yellow or covid-19 vest bonuses are worthy of a McDo manager who rewards the best employee of the month. But, at last, that's your choice. How are you going to ensure that all workers, all workers declared "indispensable to the nation", who have continued to work during this period, receive this bonus? How are you going to maintain equality, regardless of the size of the company, regardless of the sector? How are you going to ensure that Magali, Stephanie, Juliette, Maxime, Sébastien and the thousands of others are not excluded?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u101	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u102	Strongly committed to promoting the purchasing power of the lowest-paid employees, the Government introduced an exceptional premium in December 2018, which was very successful and renewed in 2019. Premiums paid from December 28, 2019 to June 30, 2020 are exempt from all social contributions and contributions, as well as income tax. By this measure, the public authorities encourage the sharing of value within the company through the conclusion of interest agreements. In the light of the health crisis, we issued an order on 1 April which made it possible to facilitate the payment of the exceptional purchasing power premium and extend it until the end of August 2020. We want to recognize those who have been particularly mobilized in the context of the epidemic, because, as shown by the examples you have given, their work has been essential to ensuring our collective life, especially for the care of the elderly and children. These provisions allow all companies to pay this exceptional premium, which is exempt, up to EUR 1000, from social contributions and contributions and from income tax without condition for the implementation of an interest agreement. For companies covered by an interest agreement, this exemption ceiling is increased to EUR 2000. In addition, the possibility of concluding an interest agreement is postponed until 31 August 2020, which allows the companies you have just mentioned to do so, and thus to increase the redistributive share to each employee, without contributions or taxes on income. We have also made it possible to adjust the amount of the premium in order to take account of the working conditions associated with the epidemic, and in particular to recognise the work of employees present at their place of work during this period. The criterion of employee presence in the undertaking, which determines eligibility for the premium, may be assessed on the date of the agreement or unilateral decision of the employer. The exemption will therefore be available to employees present at the time of payment of the premium, or those present at the date of deposit of the agreement with the DIRECCTE or of signature of the unilateral decision. What we want to do, honourable Member, is to encourage value sharing and give companies time – they have until August 31st to sign these agreements of interest to take into account the fact that they currently have little visibility, and raise the ceiling. We want to encourage value-sharing so that everyone – regardless of their role in the business, especially if they are particularly exposed – can benefit from the fruits of their work. It is a Gaullist vision of interest and participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u103	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u104	Frankly, your whole baratin doesn't say if Géraldine, Sabrina and their colleagues, who are cleaning up at the hospital in Amiens for the ONET subcontractor, are going to get the bonus. In fact, they won't touch it because the ONET company decided not to pay it, while the hospital employees, whether they are caregivers or staff at the workshops and offices, will touch it – and so much better for them, because they deserve it widely! The bonus depends on the company's goodwill. As far as value-added sharing is concerned, your policy is a complete failure: last year, the amount of dividends paid to shareholders of companies listed in CAC 40 reached €49.2 billion, a historic record.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u105	The floor is open to Mr. Patrick Loiseau, to put his question, No. 1111, concerning support for tourism professionals in the context of the crisis of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u106	Tourism, hotel and catering professionals face an exceptional crisis. Maintaining their business is a major challenge. The Vendée department is one of the most touristic in France: this sector accounts for 15% of GDP compared to 8% at national level; it records more than 8000 nights per year; It is the first in the field of open-air hotels. The survival of tourism professionals in my constituency, which I have been able to visit most recently, depends on the coming season. If it goes wrong, many of them will stop their activity. After a total stop, the activity reboots laboriously because the French are tiring and the context is not conducive to relaxation and consumption. The necessary health protocols were time-consuming and incurred expenses that were not included in the initial bookings. For professionals, the list of anxieties is long. Will the French go on vacation? How do I keep my staff after the season? How do I deal with my cash flow problems? In particular, the sector has to deal with the cancellation of cultural festivals which, every summer, generate very important revenues for this sector of the economy. With the help of local elected representatives, tourism companies have mobilized, putting in place innovative solutions. France is obviously not the only country affected by this pandemic. The whole of Europe has been hit, which has led the European Commissioner to launch a Marshall Plan to support tourism. However, this sector falls within the competence of States, and we are already seeing a 75 per cent decrease in foreign bookings. However, France has advantages: its exceptional sites and its rich cultural and historical heritage have raised it to the rank of the world's leading tourist destination. Among the good news, we can count on the fact that 90% of our citizens want to spend their holidays in France, and that our country is less dependent on foreign tourists than Italy or Spain. It is up to us to seize this momentum in order to best support tourism actors. What is planned to support this sector in the long term, at a time when tourism needs to be rethought in a context of climate emergency and resource depletion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u107	If you want an answer, my dear colleague, you have to give the Secretary of State some time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u108	I'll finish it, Mr. President. Are concrete actions planned to promote ecotourism? How can we favour responsible tourism and not mass tourism that harms the environment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u109	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u110	You're right, MP, tourism has been hit hard. Each month of the shutdown cost between 10 and 15 billion revenue losses, which is considerable for a sector that accounts for more than 7% of GDP in France and 15% in Vendée. That is why the President of the Republic has made the rescue of tourism a national priority. The Government acts in three stages: emergency, recovery and advance. Firstly: the emergency plan adopted as early as April amounts to EUR 10 billion in the form of exemption from charges, recourse to partial activity, access to the state-guaranteed bank loan. The Interministerial Committee on Tourism, which took place on 14 May, saw further progress, bringing the national effort to rescue the tourism sector to EUR 18 billion. Behind these measures, the Government has wanted to send a powerful message to the sector: tourism is a vital organ of our economy and we cannot leave professionals at the edge of the road. After the time of emergency, we entered the time of the revival that we approach with great voluntarism. The Government's strategy is to act simultaneously on two levers. First lever: encouraging French tourists to make the choice of proximity this year to support our tourism sector hard hit by the health crisis. There is a need to re-establish health and financial confidence so that stakeholders can fully act and eventually repay customers who ask for the possibility of doing so until the last moment. Second lever: attracting European tourists and then the citizens of the world. To this end, together with Jean-Yves Le Drian, we are carrying out important work at European level with a view to a coordinated reopening of the internal borders. Since 15 June, it is again possible to move between European countries. We will therefore be able to attract Belgian, Dutch and German customers this summer. Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne and I send the message every time we go to a European country: European tourists are welcome in France, in full respect of the health protocol. From 1 July, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, France will gradually open its Schengen external borders on health criteria. At last, the time of the advance will come. How do we modernise this sector, making it more concerned with the environment and authenticity? What efforts should be made in terms of digital transition and sustainable development? We are also very attentive to the employment and training aspects. Tourism evokes the beauties of our country, but it also represents a lot of jobs: more than 3 million French people depend on this sector. So you can imagine how mobilized we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u111	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to put her question, No. 1118, on relations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u112	For several years, and especially in recent months, Turkey has been flouting the rules of international law, both within and outside its borders. However, because of our full membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO, we are de facto Turkey's allies. We should not become passive accomplices to his actions. Whether in Syria where its support for Islamist organisations has destabilized the Syrian state, in Cyprus where it is planning to install oil drilling illegally, or in Libya where the sending of Turkish troops weakens a very unstable country, not to mention its regular blackmail to immigration, Turkey is currently not a reliable country for France. The recent hostile act, in the words of the Ministry of Armed Forces, against one of our frigates, is a perfect illustration of this. It would appear that, at the last meeting of NATO defence ministers, despite the seriousness of the incident, there was minimal solidarity on the part of our allies, as the organisation's secretary-general even seemed to send back our complaint and Turkish denials. In the face of France's determination, NATO eventually opened an investigation, but this position is in fact in favour of the aggressor, i.e. Turkey. Similarly, the European Union in general and Germany in particular have not shown clear support for France. Should an explanation be found in the reading of the report on German arms exports in 2019? In fact, it reveals a particularly disturbing figure in the current context: 41.8% of German war material exports are to Turkish armies. Germany is therefore massively arming Turkey. The presence of France in the same alliance as Turkey as the Turkish candidacy for entry into the European Union is clearly again a major problem. What rules of engagement has the Government given to our armies in the event of a new hostile act against a naval vessel? More generally, how does the Government intend to reassess our relationship with Turkey in order to protect France's interests?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u113	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u114	The President of the Republic once again stressed this during the Tunisian President's recent visit to Paris: Turkey plays a dangerous game. The Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian, regularly discusses the subject in his discussions with the various parliamentary committees. And I solemnly repeat today: the Government considers it essential that the European Union defend its own interests without taboo or naivety; We have the means to do it. You referred to the case of the frigate Courbet, this French frigate which, while acting on behalf of NATO, was the subject of an extremely aggressive act by a Turkish frigate which covered a violation of the arms embargo imposed by the United Nations Security Council on Libya. These actions are unworthy of an allied country, and unacceptable, which the President of the Republic reiterated yesterday when he met Angela Merkel at the castle of Meseberg. They reinforce the need for clarification of Ankara's positions on several key issues: Turkey's relations with its NATO allies, its relations with the European Union, its action in regional crises. As you pointed out, Madam Member, a NATO ministerial meeting took place last week. Florence Parly, the Minister of Armed Forces, and Jean-Yves Le Drian recalled on this occasion how Turkey's actions promoted a crisis of solidarity within the Alliance. France has received the support of a large number of partners and the Secretary General of NATO has decided to open an investigation. Turkey's military engagement in Libya fuels the conflict and the risk of escalation. Turkish interference is in contravention of the commitments made in January under the Berlin process in favour of a political solution in Libya, the only possible solution to bring the conflict to an end. They therefore justify the mobilisation of the European Union in the search for a de-escalation of tensions and call for the full entry into force of the European operation Irini, launched in April, aimed at enforcing, through naval, air and satellite means, the arms embargo imposed on Libya. We want this operation to expand and expand. We are also very concerned, like you, about the unilateral initiatives of Ankara in the Eastern Mediterranean and, in particular, about recent announcements concerning drilling off Crete. These initiatives reinforce the fact that Turkey does not wish to embark on dialogue, which is more necessary today than ever for good-neighbourly relations. We therefore consider it essential to maintain a strong European position on Turkey's respect for international law, in particular the law of the sea, and to deepen the discussion with our European partners on the prospects for relations between the European Union and Ankara. We believe that the reduction of tensions in this fragile area is an absolute imperative. France will also continue to pay close attention to the situation of fundamental rights and freedoms in Turkey, as well as to the pressure on civil society. In this regard, we remain particularly concerned about the continued detention of many political prisoners, despite the amnesty law recently adopted by the Turkish authorities. The President of the Republic and the French Government intend to maintain a lucid and demanding dialogue with Turkey on these various issues in an international context marked by strong tensions and the question of multilateralism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u115	Mrs Fabienne Colboc has the floor to put her question, No. 1095, concerning the situation of companies in the event industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u116	Despite the significant efforts made by the Government to support the sectors most affected by the health crisis, through State-guaranteed lending, partial unemployment, the solidarity fund and the postponement of the payment of expenses, the sustainability of the event sector remains at risk today. In my territory, I met several companies in difficulty: GMS, Night Scene, WWY company. The Syndicat des serviceurs de l'audiovisuel scenique et événementiel estimates the sector's turnover loss at 70% to 80% in 2020, i.e. more than 10 million euros for Indre-et-Loire alone. The actors fear that the effects of the crisis will persist in the long term and expect strong measures, visibility and support from local and regional authorities. Everyone sees this, our fellow citizens need to find each other and live together artistic and cultural events: these shared moments make the culture and are the cement of our society. Of course, such events are again allowed up to 5000 people, provided that the barrier measures are respected, but it is very difficult for their organizers to program artists because they have to significantly reduce the level of performance halls to ensure that physical distancing is respected. In these circumstances, cultural events whose economic balance is already fragile, including festivals, should hardly benefit from a possible recovery. The economic survival of night businesses is also at stake: discotheques are one of the few places of life that will not be able to reopen until September. These constraints are all the more difficult to accept as we are seeing unframed, unorganized gatherings developing, in which no health rules are respected, gatherings that we cannot prevent. It is important that their organizers guarantee the public a level of safety and comfort that is irreproachable in order to avoid overflows. One of the missions of event professionals is to ensure the safety of the public. They are used to working according to strict health standards and have been able to adapt to the terrorist threat. They are now calling for a reduction in restrictive measures, an economic support plan to survive the crisis, and a clear timetable to be able to anticipate the gradual resumption of events. Mr Secretary of State for Digital Affairs, what answers can you give them? To support this sector is to save the culture that is so dear to us and to make it live everywhere in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u117	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u118	You draw our attention to the situation of companies in the event sector, which, as you know, has benefited from a reinforced State support plan, the measures of which were endorsed at the last interdepartmental committee on tourism on 14 May, and which I would like to recall, because they are important. First of all, it is the Solidarity Fund, which will remain open for companies in the hospitality, catering, coffee, tourism, events, sport and culture sectors until the end of 2020 and whose access will be extended to larger companies. In addition, for companies in these sectors with up to 20 employees and a turnover of up to EUR 2 million, the aid provided under the fund may amount to up to EUR 10000. It is, then, the extension of the use of partial activity, under the same conditions as today, until the end of September 2020. Finally, this is the €1.3 billion equity investment plan implemented by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and Bpifrance, with an expected investment impact of almost €7 billion. These measures are aimed at the wider event sector. With regard to private events, the federations concerned have on several occasions been the subject of consultations with the public authorities to assess the extent to which the nature of their difficulties allowed them to be eligible for the tourism support plan. Their applications are currently being considered. With regard to the resumption of activity, the Government announced on 20 June the conditions for the resumption of event activity for the beginning of 2020. Starting in September 2020, and subject to a further assessment of the epidemiological situation, further relaxations could be decided: the opening of establishments hosting fairs, exhibitions and fairs, and, where appropriate, the opening of discotheques and the resumption of international maritime cruises. This new stage of the deconfinement plan is based above all on the sense of responsibility of the French, who must continue to show an exemplary attitude in the fight against the epidemic. At this stage, the programming of the major events scheduled for the fall is under discussion among professionals. The summer observation period will confirm or invalidate the conduct of these events. In any event, please be aware, Madam Member, that the Government will pay particular attention to the situation of enterprises in the tourism and event sectors so that the measures of the economic emergency plan are adapted to the needs. These measures will be examined at a later stage so that the economic recovery of the sector can best be accompanied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u119	Mrs Danielle Brulebois, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No 1101, concerning the concerns of companies involved in the subcontracting of cars and aircraft.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u120	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the plight of subcontractors who suffer the full consequences of the covid -19 epidemic. In Jura, we have the chance to have an important fabric of SMEs and TPEs that, in the automotive and aeronautics sectors, meet the best global standards of quality in subcontracting. Also very efficient in the digital, electronic, connected and electrical fields, the Jura companies stand out from their competitors by the perfect mastery of three professions: milling, turning and cleavage. At the beginning of 2020, orders were coming in, but the health crisis linked to the covid-19 changed the landscape and, for Jura's subcontractors, the future is now very uncertain. Since the Airbus aircraft were grounded, the company SKF Aerospace France in Lons-le-Saunier has experienced a 50% decline in activity and 40 interim aircraft have been dismissed. The 350 employees are concerned: they are 50% unemployed and a plan for voluntary departures is envisaged. Today, they painfully manage the emergency and look forward to knowing how they can be helped by the aeronautics support plan. How will the €15 billion planned irrigate our local subcontracting channels? Saving aeronautics is saving subcontracting. Because the manufacturing of an aircraft is 70% subcontracted, there are no subcontractors without subcontractors, and no subcontractors without subcontractors. As for the car support plan, announced on May 26, 2020, it marks a significant shift towards the electric vehicle. The increase in aid for the purchase of electric or hybrid vehicles will speed up the shift from the fleet of thermal cars to the electric one, the two engines requiring very different skills. Before the crisis, many subcontractors had specialized in thermal engine components, which represented thousands of jobs. How does the Government intend to help subcontractors take this turn when it is planned to relocate the construction of entry-level electric cars to France? I also want to denounce today the behaviour of major contractors who take advantage of the situation in order to increase pressure on subcontractors by setting them untenable and unjustified time or price requirements. Our companies need to be reassured more than ever. How will support plans for the aeronautics and automotive sectors benefit from local subcontracting in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u121	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u122	The health crisis occurred while the automotive sector was already facing historical changes: it had been facing a cycle reversal for more than a year, with a decline in the world market of about 5% in 2019. The return to normal sales of new cars is not expected until 2024. It is in this context that the State drew up a recovery plan, presented on 26 May by the President of the Republic and which I would like to recall the three main axes. The plan to support the automotive sector must, first of all, enable production in France to be encouraged by, in particular, stimulating the demand for electric vehicles, as well as for plug-in hybrid vehicles, more than half of which should be produced in the national territory. It should then be able to support the investments of companies in the sector, but also firms in difficulty, and to protect employees by prolonging partial activity. Finally, training and learning support plans will be launched to encourage the acquisition by French employees of the new skills required to develop clean vehicles. With regard to the aviation sector, the current crisis, unprecedented in its scale, calls for all our vigilance and mobilization to maintain activity, jobs and skills on French soil. These are precisely the objectives of the support plan announced by the Government, which also aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from European transport. We want to support the demand, in particular through the export support tools and the support of Air France. We also want, and we are acting in this direction, to promote the sustainability and competitiveness of companies in the sector in order to strengthen the French offer. The investment fund set up with the major suppliers of the sector and the fund to support the diversification, modernisation and greening of the productive tool will also contribute to the strengthening of enterprises and will support projects to relocate foreign productions. The significant increase in support for civil aviation research and development will irrigate mid-cap companies and SMEs and maintain critical skills. This increased state support will position France in the best position on a global level to design and produce future generations of less carbonized aircraft. Despite its unprecedented scale, however, the support plan decided by the Government alone cannot guarantee the maintenance of all jobs in France. That is why this crisis calls for the mobilization and cooperation of all. Regional units for the identification and support of firms in difficulty are being set up to provide each one with an appropriate response and to direct them to the appropriate support tools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u123	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u124	Thank you for your support, Secretary of State. I know we can count on you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u125	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1103, concerning the massive redundancies of employees of the horse slaughter company Huchin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u126	I am speaking today on behalf of the 69 employees of the Huchin-Prince horse butchery of Coulogne, located in my constituency, the 7th electoral district of Pas-de-Calais. This emblematic enterprise of the territory and its collective imagination, present in many markets, is about to cease its activity, which would mean unemployment for its 69 employees. Placed in judicial reform in 2017, Huchin-Prince had been taken over by a British citizen, who has been managing it since. At the end of 2019, a terrible fire ravaged the company, its production site in Coulogne and its working tool on the markets, the vans, forcing the manager to place the employees in partial unemployment. A few months ago, he decided to abruptly stop the activity, refusing to apply for the extension of partial unemployment, to rebuild the site and to place the company in judicial reform, which would have allowed the search for a buyer. Yet, during the previous judicial reorganization in 2017, nine potential assignees had manifested themselves. But arguing from Brexit, then from the crisis of the covid-19, from hypothetic refusal of aid from the state agencies then – whether it is DIRECCTE, for the prolongation of partial unemployment, or from DREAL for the reconstruction of the site and the evacuation of the water – as well as from insurance problems, the manager endangers the future of the company, its sixty-nine employees and their families. A hearing at the commercial court of Boulogne-sur-Mer will be held on 16 July to determine the conditions for a deposit of balance sheet. Several meetings have recently taken place between the departments of the State, the elected representatives of the agglomeration of Grand-Calais and the manager in order to find a solution to save as many jobs as possible but also the Huchin-Prince brand, real capital of the company, as the latter is known and recognized throughout the Calaisis. Huchin-Prince, its history, its employees, deserve a recovery that offers the maximum guarantee, especially in the context of the post-Brexit, knowing that the company slaughters in the United Kingdom but transforms and markets its meat in France. So, Mr Secretary of State, you can give me details of the actions that the Ministry of Economy and Finance intends to take to save these sixty-nine jobs and the conditions envisaged to put in place a plan to take up the activity solid and reliable for this emblematic company of Calaisis, which has qualified employees, undeniable know-how and materials, that is to say a brand and a safe asset for a possible buyer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u127	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u128	You mention the important project of dismissals of the employees of the company of the horse slaughter Huchin-Prince. I would like to assure you here of the full mobilization of the State services in order to find a favourable solution to this issue. This is why, at the request of the Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, they follow him closely, in particular the sub-prefect of the Calais borough. The announcement in the local press on 19 May of the dismissal of sixty-nine employees seems entirely inappropriate to us even though the company has recently received compensation from the State for the partial activity. All the services concerned, particularly the law firm of Agnes Pannier-Runacher, investigates this case, and here is the information that I can communicate to you at this stage – some of which are already known to you: first of all, the sub-prefect of the Calais borough held several meetings with the shareholder and other stakeholders of the case, in connection with the mayor of the city concerned – the last took place on 18 June. In addition, we are working with several economic actors who have shown up to help the current shareholder and thus extend the activity. We are therefore fully mobilized to achieve a clear objective that, I am sure, you share: that the site restarts and that jobs are preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u129	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u130	In any case, you can count on the full determination of all the elected representatives of Calaisis to save this company, its sixty-nine jobs and the purchasing power of all these families, in a territory that already suffers greatly beyond the questions of employment. We are fully mobilized, in liaison with the State departments and in particular with the sub-prefect of the Calais district, alongside all those who have an interest in this enterprise or who would have an interest in investing in it to save all these jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u131	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to put his question, No. 1107, on the economic sustainability of health self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u132	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the health sovereignty of France. In recent months, we have heard how important it was to have French health products in the event of a health crisis; We have also heard the Government's commitments on this major issue: we must now move from words to deeds. However, in Orne, an emblematic dossier shows that, in order to guarantee health safety and self-sufficiency in the coming months, it is necessary that the State does not delay giving its green light. The Lemoine Group, based in Normandy, is the European leader and the world's number two in cotton-based care and hygiene products. In the face of the crisis and as early as 25 March, in the face of the shortage of health products essential to the fight against the epidemic, the group diverted its production methods to produce the only 100% French swabs to carry out covid tests. The joint efforts of employees, management and government departments have resulted in the production of more than 4 million swabs. As part of this partnership, during the peak of the crisis and still today, there has been a staggering shortage of overblouses for hospitals. It should be remembered that, at present, no production unit exists in France or even in Europe for this type of material produced in Asia. The Lemoine Group has therefore decided to launch a study for the construction of a tailor-made machine, also designed in the Orne, in Tinchebray, in order to produce in France superblouses for healthcare workers in our country. Although this machine represents an initial investment of several million euros, it would make it possible to bring out of the Norman factory nearly 10000 overblouses per day, or about 3.5 million per year, enough for our country to be self-sufficient in production. In order to start the operation of this machine, which will also bring current Asian production prices closer together, the industrialist now needs visibility as to the willingness of the state to give priority in its future purchases to local production and above all to engage in time, at least over 36 months, knowing that these are products for single use and made with extremely low margins. Therefore, is the Government ready to commit itself completely and quickly to ensuring that these types of production are fully insured by French companies in a few months' time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u133	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u134	On this issue, the Ministry of Economy and Finance positioned itself in support of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health during the crisis to provide solutions to health product supply problems. I would like to recall that, as soon as the crisis emerged and under the auspices of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, a fine analysis of the breakdowns and the complexity of their causes was conducted to provide a structural response, beyond the short-term and immediate responses. As you pointed out, the health crisis has shown the need to gain industrial and health independence, both for the supply of medicines and medical devices. In response to the new challenge, the Government has taken initiatives to promote French research, such as the call for projects launched at the end of March, as part of the investment programme for the future – PIA – to support collaborative projects for research and development of therapeutic solutions against covid -19, preventive or curative projects including phase 1 or 2 clinical trials with French academic partners. The Government has already selected six projects, totalling €78 million, covering various therapeutic strategies and technological approaches, an important aspect of health independence. The recovery of France's industrial and health sovereignty also requires the development of new manufacturing capacities. This is why a €120 million call for expressions of interest via the IAP was published on 18 June to identify investment projects that will enable the production of medicines involved in the care of patients with covid-19 to grow very rapidly. In total, these are almost EUR 200 million mobilised to develop the health industries and support the localization of research and development and production activities in France, in the context of the fight against the pandemic. This envelope covers the only projects launched in 2020, and will be expanded in 2021 to finance new projects. In addition to this support for the development of the health industries, the Ministry of the Economy and Finance, in conjunction with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, is pursuing an in-depth reflection on the use of public procurement to meet the need for health independence and market security, both in the field of medicines and in the field of medical devices. An approach is also being taken at European level to achieve a critical size of profitability and autonomy for French and European industrialists, enabling them to take joint action on the markets.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u135	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u136	Thank you, Secretary of State, for this answer, but we need much more concrete. In this case, it would take a top start from the State, particularly through public procurement, to know whether it is ready to buy French as a priority and not Asian in the coming months. It is this commitment that will enable the Lemoine Group or the company ACG, also located in Tinchebray, to be able to launch the manufacture of this machine which will automate the production of the overblouses, which are now indispensable for the sovereignty of France but also in terms of jobs in the territories concerned. We therefore expect a technical meeting from the ministries concerned, but also your support on this major subject both for the territories and for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u137	Mr Guy Bricout, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1117, concerning the problems encountered by the teeth and brodours of the Cambresis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u138	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of the dentelliers and brodours in my constituency, particularly those of Caudry and Villers-Outreaux. Despite the difficulties they have faced for years and for which I have repeatedly intervened, namely an overall decrease in their turnover due to a significant decrease in the volume of orders for these luxury products, a lack of competitiveness in terms of exports to countries with low labour costs – the latter representing 80% of the cost of the product – and the copying of designs and models with impunity due to insufficient protection of intellectual property, they have been able to adapt their production chains to the spread of covid-19 and, in national solidarity, have not hesitated to mass manufacture masks patented to the standards imposed by the DGA – the Directorate-General for Armaments –, fully bearing the costs of authorisation from 1000 euros to 3000 euros. These companies, which have had to modify their production tool, wait very long for the DGA to give them the green light and each time request a new patent when the raw material was changing, deserve much of our homeland. On April 30, the Secretary of State Pannier-Runacher went to one of these companies in Villers-Outreaux to pay tribute to their reactivity. On this occasion, she did not wish to exchange with me, nor even respond to my mail despite my request to her chief of staff. However, I could have raised with her a number of topics related to this profession of high heritage value and to the national and international reach, including the difficulties that these companies have faced for too many years in addition to those they face today. There is no longer a day since his visit without warning me about the very large stocks that they have managed to manufacture and that they can no longer sell in the face of the massive imports that have been made during this time and since. The abrupt shutdown of mask controls puts them once again at the edge of the abyss. Today, even more so than yesterday, it seems important that the Government put in place a concrete plan of action, that a budget envelope for the revival of the activity is created and that the French production of laces and embroidery is finally prioritized and protected in view of the development of the economic heritage that has made the territory and these jobs famous in France. My colleague Julien Dive and I spoke again to Mr Bruno Le Maire on 4 June. As I have written to the Secretary of State, I remain very concerned and very attentive about this matter, and at her disposal to work with her collaborators. I would like to know the position of the Ministry on this important issue and how soon the Government intends to support this sector, the flagship of French heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u139	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u140	You are asking me about the problems encountered by the toothlaces and the Brodours of Cambresis. First of all, I would like to stress the mobilisation, with the help of the Modelux Strategic Committee, of textile companies during the health crisis, particularly those in Caudresis. They have shown great reactivity in response to the demands of the Directorate-General for Enterprise, in order to produce in large quantities non-sanitary masks intended to protect the French population and to remedy the shortage of surgical masks. The Government is fully aware of the current difficulties associated with these stocks of alternative masks that manufacturers are currently struggling to dispose of, and is fully invested in supporting this sector. That is why, on June 6, the Secretary of State, Agnès Pannier-Runacher, entrusted a mission to Mr Yves Dubief, President of the Union des Industries Textiles, but also to Guillaume Gibault, founder of the French Slip, to look for outlets for this production by identifying avenues of solution, in particular by highlighting the fact that these fabric masks are reusable several times after washing, affect the environment less than single-use masks and are ultimately of little higher use cost. In addition, last February, in the face of the difficulties faced by lace companies and the restructuring of this sector in 2019, particularly in Calaisis, the Government mandated the general management of companies to develop measures to form an action plan to preserve this activity and employment in the region, as well as the invaluable know-how appreciated by fashion players around the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u141	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u142	I am very pleased that action is being taken to dispose of masks that remain in stock in large quantities. I would also like to thank the Government for its efforts in favour of toothpastes and brodders; Lace is a flagship product, a product that carries high the reputation of France. I am grateful to him for his efforts: today the toothlaces and the brodours are very worried about their future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u143	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to put her question, No. 1114, on the difficulties in paying commercial and professional rents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u144	The health crisis that we are experiencing has led to a major economic crisis, which has consequences for many actors in our territories. In particular, businesses, which have been suffering since 2017 from multiple blockages and demonstrations in response to your policy, are facing the consequences of the administrative closure of our economy and the ensuing financial crisis. Various actors – traders, associations or local authorities – are currently facing difficulties in paying their rents. The Government responded at the end of March by two orders creating the possibility of spreading or deferring the payment of commercial or professional rents. He also launched a consultation between the main federations of commercial lenders, the Fédération française de l'assurance – FFA – and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, which, on 3 June, culminated in the enactment of a charter of good conduct in relations between tenants and lenders with a view to a postponement or cancellation of charges. However, concerns persist: first, this charter is only an incentive and the decision to postpone or cancel the charges will continue to depend on over-the-counter negotiations between tenants and lenders. Secondly, some small donors cannot afford to grant such an exemption: some have loans to repay, while others are pensioners for whom renting a space constitutes a significant part of income. That is why the State must commit itself financially to the donors, especially the most fragile of them: the vitality of our associative and economic fabric depends on it. Every effort must be made to save companies and associations at risk, no matter what the cost. Do you intend to permanently remove the difficulties faced by traders, associations and communities in paying their rent, by granting a guarantee to the most fragile donors? More specifically, do you intend to set up a mechanism to offset the carry-overs and cancellations of charges granted by the lenders to their tenants in order to remove each other from the impasse in which they are located?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u145	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u146	Thank you for this question, which allows me to return to the work we have done to help traders and all the TPEs during the crisis, thanks in particular to the measures voted by Parliament on the occasion of the first two amending finance bills – PLFR – for 2020. As of 23 June, 267700 businesses have benefited from the Solidarity Fund, for a total amount of almost €790 million. Trade is thus receiving almost 17 % of the aid granted by the scheme, making it the first beneficiary sector in France. Nearly 7,000 requests for carry-overs of tax charges were also filed by retail companies, for a total of EUR 192 million. The amount of social security exemption granted to FTEs in the sectors covered by a closure is estimated at EUR 400 million. As you can see, the aid provided is massive, especially since as of 19 June, more than 119000 commercial enterprises have obtained a state-guaranteed loan for a total of 25.5 billion euros. Here again, the sector is the first beneficiary of this scheme, from which it collects almost a quarter of the amounts. The measures to support traders are therefore very significant and the profession relies heavily on them. At the same time, emergency measures were taken from the outset of confinement to prohibit the application of financial penalties or lease breaks in the event of non-payment of rents to the most affected TPEs. This prohibition will remain in force until two months after the end of the state of emergency, i.e. until 10 September. Concertations were held, under the auspices of the Minister of Economy and Finance, to encourage donors to postpone or even cancel rents, particularly for TPEs. The main donor federations, the FFA and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations have thus called on their members to cancel three months of rents for the TPEs forced to close and to enter into discussions with those who have continued their activities but are weakened by the crisis. Following the mediation mission on the rents of traders, a charter of good practice was signed on 8 June 2020 between the donor federations and the federations of traders. It allows traders and lenders to refer to a common framework agreement and rules of good conduct for their over-the-counter discussions. In addition, mediation mechanisms, which will be entrusted to enterprises or departmental conciliation commissions, are being developed to address disagreements between donors and tenants. They will promote balanced solutions that safeguard the interests of all parties. Finally, you are aware that a plan of support for traders, wanted by the President of the Republic, will very soon be announced by Minister Bruno Le Maire.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u147	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u148	I thank you for these elements, which bear witness to the Government's commitment to business, but I hope you are aware that you have not answered my question, which concerned the support to be given to donors who cannot exempt their tenants from rent. I am thinking in particular of pensioners with small premises, whose rental is an important component of purchasing power; or the communities, who cannot bear to give up for months the rents they derive from the rental of communal buildings. So the question was about a donor support fund. Considering that you have not fully responded, I hope that I will get a written answer on this subject, which I believe is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u149	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor to put his question, No 1119, on the channels of excellence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u150	He said that the crafts of art and excellence in France would be of no use – perhaps. However, let me try to convince you that they are useful. The arts and crafts animate the territories economically and humanely. Many fields, such as the pottery of Dieulefit or Anduze, enrich the territories, for which they represent a real economic force and a source of development. I include in these trades of excellence living heritage companies, master apprentices or MOFs – best workers in France. All of these people suffered during the crisis – they even suffered the impact. Many trade fairs and events were cancelled, while some production or sales workshops had to close. Crafts, which are a wealth for the territories, export, thanks to living heritage companies or luxury companies, which are among our finest florets. They thus contribute significantly to the image of France and its power of influence. In response to the assertion that trades are useless, I affirm that they contribute strongly to the image of France, both nationally and internationally. They participate in its cultural influence. Will the Government continue to assist the craft industry, throughout 2020 and perhaps beyond, to maintain them and enable our country to continue to exercise this international influence?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u151	The Secretary of State for Digital Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u152	The Government is convinced, like you, that the soul of France rests on its territories, its know-how and men and women who are passionate about their profession, including the craft trades. It is in this sense that the President of the Republic has asked Bruno Le Maire and Agnès Pannier-Runacher to launch a plan of support for small businesses, crafts and self-employed people, which must include the crafts that you evoke, which are part of these shops and artisans of proximity that make the wealth of our territories. Trade and crafts are France's first business: they bring together more than 3 million men and women, who are at the heart of our economy and have been hard hit by the crisis we are going through. I recall that the Government responded present to assist local traders, artisans and self-employed during the health crisis. For example, the TPEs received massive aid: almost EUR 4.8 billion from the Solidarity Fund, EUR 42 billion from State-guaranteed loans, EUR 3.4 billion from tax and social charges carry forward and more than 4 million from enterprises with less than 20 employees benefiting from the partial activity scheme. Although the recovery is beginning in many sectors, many artisans and traders remain in great difficulty. As we have had the opportunity to point out, when an independent person files the balance sheet, no one hears it, even though people who are not in a position to relaunch and continue their activity may count in thousands and these bankruptcies could be France's first social plan. It is also a whole part of local life, a whole part of the history of a territory and its culture, which can disappear. We cannot accept it. That is why we have presented a three-pronged business support plan. The first aims to accompany them during the sensitive recovery phase, offering them liquidity facilities and simplification measures. The second is to enable artisans and traders to accelerate their digital and ecological transformation, so that they can not only face the current difficulties but also the transformation of our society and our economy, and maintain their activity. Finally, the third strand aims to boost local trade in our territories. You will understand: we are extremely vigilant about the future of France's first company, which must be supported and continue to transform. This plan will be fully part of the national strategy for crafts and commerce that we launched in October 2019 – I know your investment on this issue, Mr. Like all companies, those you mention can also claim all the schemes voted on and deployed on the occasion of the previous PLFRs, and will of course be included in the recovery plan. Finally, I will mention the plan for small business, which will be presented in the coming days by Bruno Le Maire and Agnès Pannier-Runacher and will include actions for all companies, including art companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u153	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u154	Thank you for your clear answer. I would simply like to point out: don't forget the small artisans who work alone and who are also at risk of suffering as a result of the crisis. I trust you not to exclude them from the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u155	Mrs Bérangère Couillard has the floor to put her question, No. 1100, on the public consultation on gender equality in the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u156	Madam Secretary of State for Gender Equality and the Fight against Discrimination, you and Bruno Le Maire have launched a public consultation on gender equality in the economy, inviting citizens to co-build the future law for women's economic empowerment. This follows the commitment made by France at the G7 in Biarritz to take concrete action at the international and national levels to combat inequalities between women and men. There are still too many difficulties in women's working lives: their wages are too often lower than those of men and their prospects for change are less favourable. The consultation you have launched is important in order to bring out concrete proposals enabling women to gain economic empowerment by facilitating their professional development. Essential measures are expected to promote women's entrepreneurship, strengthen quotas, support women's role in innovation or facilitate their return to work after maternity leave, notably through the extension of paternity leave – all of which are envisaged in the future bill to be presented in 2020, following the publication of the results of the public consultation last March. However, due to the health crisis we are experiencing, the results of the consultation could not be made public. More than 80000 people spoke for three months on the online platform made available on this occasion. This figure reflects a genuine will on the part of our fellow citizens to make progress on these issues. A woman must be able to take up positions of responsibility in the same way as a man. It must be able to combine work and family life without encountering obstacles. That is why I would like to know more about the date of delivery of the conclusions of this public consultation, which aims to facilitate the career path of women in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u157	The Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and the Fight against Discrimination has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u158	Thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to take stock of the consultation launched with Bruno Le Maire on the theme "Acting together for gender equality in the economy". As you recalled, about 80000 participants mobilized during this consultation, which is a record participation. We have recorded 549,000 votes on the 3579 proposals tabled. Among them, the ones you mentioned were praised: the prolongation of paternity leave; the creation of quotas to increase women's access to management positions, both in companies and in the public sector; and the creation of a specific fund, managed by Bpifrance, to better finance companies run by women – which, according to the SISTA study, account for only 2.5% of the total amount invested in businesses by business angels. To go further, this morning we announced the creation of a prize that will be awarded in connection with fifteen women's professional networks, endowed by the State with a total amount of 100,000 euros and accompanied by a mentoring of the bank BNP-Paribas so that the winners can gain easier access to financing. Tomorrow I will visit the company Mercialys to take stock of the feminization of companies and to present the new annual barometer that will identify those who are progressing, those who are stagnating, and even those who are regressing. As the consultation has shown, and as Members of Parliament – including you, the Member of Parliament – regularly point out, the tools to measure the position of women are necessary to see the progress made, to take the necessary corrective action and, quite simply, to enforce the law. The World Economic Forum calculated that equality between women and men would be achieved in 2234 if we did nothing more. The Government, together with Bruno Le Maire and under the authority of Prime Minister Edward Philippe, is determined to do more to promote gender equality in the economic sphere. This is the commitment – as you recalled – made by the President of the Republic in the framework of the G7 that met in Biarritz last year, under the French presidency, and then under that of the United States this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u159	Mrs Bérangère Couillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u160	I thank you for the clarification, Madam Secretary of State, and I welcome the enthusiasm for the projects that you are defending. The President of the Republic has made equality between women and men a priority of his quinquennium; You can count on my commitment and that of the members of the delegation for women's rights and of all the deputies of the majority to accompany you, hoping that this project will be completed as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u161	The floor is open to Justine Benin, to put her question, No. 1112, on economic recovery in the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u162	The overseas countries are experiencing structural difficulties that existed before the health crisis, but it has amplified them, as in Hexagon and in the rest of the world. Problems related to insularity, narrow local markets, corporate debt, long payment deadlines: all these difficulties make ultramarine economies very vulnerable. In addition, the cost of living is higher than in Hexagon and the unemployment rate is twice that of mainland France. In the face of the economic and social crisis, Madam Minister, there must be a genuine recovery plan specific to the overseas countries and territories. I know your commitment and all the measures that the Government has taken during this period: you have done much to support us and to support the ultramarine economies, whether it is the solidarity fund for the self-employed, the loan guarantee fund or the partial unemployment compensation. You have to go further, hit harder. We need ambitious measures tailored to overseas needs according to several priorities. First of all, it is necessary to support very small, ultramarine enterprises in order to remedy their social and fiscal debt and to help them invest. Second priority: overseas employment. Strong learning, training and higher education measures are needed to develop skills so that every ultramarine young person can find a job in his or her territory. As well, community support measures are needed not only to reduce payment times and to re-launch public order more quickly, but also to boost tax revenues. Finally, we must have the ambition to invest in future jobs, in the renewable energy sectors, in the ecological transition or in personal support services. The President of the Republic said: we must reinvent ourselves – and make hand sewn for the overseas. We must seize this moment to devise innovative policies adapted to the context of the ultramarine territories in order to strengthen their economic and social development. We need a method, a specific programme and planning – I know you want it. Overseas populations are resilient and courageous, but also demanding. They expect us, parliamentarians, elected officials and members of the Government, to take concrete measures and an ambitious and appropriate method of improving the daily lives of each household. This requirement is more legitimate than ever. Do you intend to prepare a specific recovery plan for the Overseas Territories, Madam Minister, and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u163	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u164	Indeed, beyond the emergency measures taken to deal with the crisis, we are building step by step the revival that you call for of your wishes. Mobilisation must take place at European as well as national level and be based on existing and other new tools. How do we trace this trajectory 5.0 for a fairer and more equitable world, a trajectory that you ask for and that we have developed in connection with all the ultramarine territories? First of all, we are acting within the framework of the budget for 2020, specifically the single budget line: I have asked the Directorate-General for Enterprise and all the prefects to investigate housing issues as quickly as possible in order to give a new impetus to the building and public works sector in the overseas regions by speeding up public order. Another tool: the exceptional investment fund, the EIF, has been fully invested in overseas countries, with €110 million already committed to stimulate public procurement and help companies beyond the implementation of the projects already planned. I'm going to the new devices. On 29 May, the Government made a new announcement: the tax losses that municipalities and regions have recorded in connection with the granting of the sea and the fuel tax will be fully offset, for an amount of approximately €160 million, which will be adjusted at the end of the year. We have also been seized by the departments of La Réunion and Guadeloupe, whose requests we deal with. At European level, the Commission has planned a recovery plan, REACT-EU, which includes a change in cohesion policy: its budget would be EUR 55 billion, of which some EUR 4 billion would be for France. In other words, the funds allocated to the ultramarine territories under the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF, or the European Social Fund, the ESF, will increase in 2021 and 2022: let us therefore be ready now to propose projects and finance them. Finally, at the national level, the Government is working to develop the various elements of the recovery plan. Some have already been announced as the tourism plan, which will be accompanied in July and August by a supplement for the ultramarine territories. More generally, the stimulus plan will be considered in the context of the 2021 Finance Bill; Be sure the overseas will not be forgotten. We are already working with all regions. Yesterday, Mrs Gourault and I held video conferences with several regional and departmental presidents, and these meetings will continue this week in order to use convergence and transformation contracts to conduct stronger and faster action in the ultramarine territories, again over two years. National funding for operational projects must therefore be mobilised as soon as possible without delay. That is what can be proposed at the end of the negotiations. The recovery plan will be sustainable, solidary and will be based on trajectory 5.0. And let us not forget the employment of young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u165	Christine Pires Beaune has the floor to raise her question, No. 1113, concerning the Dragon 63 helicopter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u166	Let me begin by lamenting the absence of Minister Christophe Castaner and Secretary of State Laurent Nunez to whom my question is addressed. What happened, Mrs. Vidal? Who made this decision about the Dragon 63 helicopter and on what basis? These simple questions, I asked the Director General of Civil Security, Mr. Thirion, when he went to Clermont-Ferrand on an emergency basis last week, but I did not get an answer. I didn't get any more to this simple other question: when does Dragon 63 have to fly to Mende's base? This project has made a lot of ink sink in a few days. The minister has put an end to it and I sincerely thank him for that. The Dragon 63 will remain based in Clermont-Ferrand and will continue to cover the four Auvergnate departments including the Allier, where the shortage of doctors is even more acutely felt than elsewhere. It will therefore continue to protect the Auvergnats and the many tourists we welcome this summer. The local elected representatives, as well as the parliamentarians of all tendencies, were also bruised to learn, at the turn of a press article, the news of this unilaterally decided move in a Parisian office. In front of the elected officials' bronca, Mr Castaner sent in disaster the Director General of Civil Security to extinguish the fire which he had lit while the Prefect of Lozère threw oil on the fire through his devastating tweet! This decision was taken in Paris, without any local consultation! Last morning, again, the director of the university hospital centre and the head of the UAS received no official information, while intelligent partnerships were established between civil protection and several operators in the department. Once again, I sincerely thank you, but this unfortunate story, which ends well, illustrates once again the evil that gnaws our country: the vertical exercise of power. This is certainly a regal jurisdiction, but it does not mean that Paris has to settle everything. What lessons will you learn from this unglorious episode?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u167	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u168	This is not a unilateral decision taken without consultation, Member. The civil safety helicopter fleet is experiencing a situation of tension following two recent accidents: the Dragon 30 in the Bouches-du-Rhône in December, which claimed the lives of the three crew members, and the Dragon 64 in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques in early June, which will be permanently immobilized. In order to address this situation, the Government has made a long-term commitment under the Aeronautics Recovery Plan to acquire two new EC145 helicopters to be delivered by the end of 2021. This acquisition will make it possible to make the bases operational and to preserve those with the highest operational tension. The budgetary effort is considerable; It provides concrete evidence of the Government's willingness to do so. In the near future, the prospect of putting the Clermont-Ferrand helicopter base on hold was a transitional solution to cover only the summer period of July and August 2020. I note that the long-term nature of the year-round parking at Clermont-Ferrand has never been called into question. However, the Minister of the Interior, like all members of the Government, is able to hear the problems of local elected officials. We have heard the emotion generated locally by this temporary closure. That is why the Minister asked the Director General of Civil Security and Crisis Management to visit the site on 26 June, in contact with elected officials and local actors, to reassess the situation. The Director General reported on his discussions and it was on the basis of his report that the Minister of the Interior, Christophe Castaner, decided to reconsider this decision and confirm that the Dragon 63 helicopter will remain well based in Clermont-Ferrand. It is therefore an apparatus of the national gendarmerie that will be positioned in Mende to cover the indispensable relief mission in this area. Be aware that the Government is always very attentive to the optimal coverage of relief needs throughout France, and that it will continue to listen to the territories and local elected representatives in order, each time, to find the best solutions to ensure the safety of all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u169	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u170	Thank you, Minister, for reminding you of the facts. I attended the meeting that took place in the prefecture with Mr.Thirion: all the elements you mention are correct. I am glad that we managed to make the minister understand that what was planned could not be done. However, I disagree with you on one point: consultation. You will read the reports in the press: there has been no consultation. All the elected representatives, from the president of the departmental council to mayors and parliamentarians, all said so, and it was also this lack of consultation that shocked a lot – hence my question about the vertical exercise of power, to which you unfortunately did not reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u171	[[Mr Paul Molac and Mr Le Président exchange a few words in Breton]] Mr Paul Molac has the floor to put his question, No. 1109, concerning the computer equipment of teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u172	I would like to warn the Minister of National Education and Youth about the difficulties in the equipment of teachers, to whom I pay a strong tribute, because they managed to maintain educational continuity during the crisis of the Covid -19, when it was not obvious. They have also worked hard in their classrooms to implement barrier gestures and safety distances, which has led them to change the whole organization of schools as soon as the decline in the pandemic allowed it. I wish to relay the testimony, far from being isolated, of a teacher from my constituency. At the time of confinement, she had only one computer station at home, which was relatively used. It was impossible for her to follow her pupils in good conditions, since she had to share it with her high school daughter and her college son. This teacher had to resolve to buy a new computer, not for her leisure time, but simply to do her job. This has been a particularly important unforeseen burden. You will answer that she will be able to deduct part of this expenditure from her taxes. But it is not taxable, so the deduction scheme has no interest in it. Moreover, having a computer tool throughout its working time has not removed all the difficulties. The digital divide affects not only students but also teachers. It is also not possible for the latter, for reasons of highly conceivable security, to access the internal network of establishments hosting the data. During this period of crisis of the Covid-19, the teaching teams had to adapt both well and badly. I am surprised that teachers in national education do not have material or financial support to equip themselves and carry out their mission in good conditions. Of course, this question of computer equipment gradually emerged – when I started my career, it did not arise. Will the state contribute to help these teachers do their job properly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u173	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u174	First of all, I would like to apologize to Jean-Michel Blanquer, who was retained by the installation of the school's assessment board. I would very much like to join you, honourable Member, in paying tribute to the teachers who work in national education institutions as well as in higher education. Their commitment to their mission was remarkable during this extremely complicated period. The context of the health crisis has highlighted the need for teachers to have computer equipment adapted to the changing teaching practices, including hybrid teaching partly in front of pupils and partly from a distance. Some 17 per cent of second-level teachers and 16 per cent of first-level teachers, or about 140,000 teachers, do not have a laptop. Some communities, having noted this, already provide computer equipment to teachers working in schools within their sphere of competence. In addition, many projects co-financed by the Government and communities provide computer equipment for classrooms and teachers, particularly in response to departmental calls for projects. To learn all the lessons of this health crisis, to value the successes and to strengthen the digital education strategy, the Minister of National Education and Youth decided to organize, between June and November 2020, general states of digital education. As part of this broad mobilization on digital issues for education, the Ministry encourages all stakeholders, both nationally and internationally, to contribute, share their experiences and express their expectations and visions. These general statements will provide an opportunity to draw up an objective overview of the conditions in which teachers work with digital technology and to build an ambitious action plan; One of the five priority themes selected is "enhancing equal access to digital for all and addressing the digital divide from a social, inclusive and territorial perspective".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u175	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u176	I had initially thought that these questions came to the local authorities – the department for colleges and the region for high schools. In fact, teachers belong to the State civil service, unlike officials, who are placed in the direction of local authorities. The question therefore falls within the competence of the State. I hope that this consultation will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u177	I call Mrs Sarles to speak on her question, No. 1094, concerning the algorithms of Parcoursup.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u178	In the course of May, nearly 700000 high school students discovered the first postings of Parcoursup. This is a crucial period for their future. As rapporteur for the mission to assess access to higher education in the evaluation and monitoring committee for public policies, I participated in the hearing of many actors in this sector. Last February, the Court of Auditors presented an initial review of the Student Orientation and Success Act, known as the ORE Act, in which it recalled that, in 2018, the Government had had to deal with an increase in the number of candidates for higher education. You have met the challenge very well, allowing a large majority of them to receive a proposal, without resorting to the drawing of lots. In the past, with PDB, nearly 170 channels used an unequal and unfair distribution system. It is in this context that the ORE Act introduced Parcoursup, with the aim of guaranteeing a right of access to higher education for all, and ensuring greater student success. However, the Court of Auditors has pointed out that the new allocation procedure still suffers from a lack of transparency, a view shared by the Constitutional Council, which decided in favour of the subsequent publication of local criteria and algorithms, although, as we know, the guidance procedure is not based solely on these algorithms. Students claim to be faced with a problem of equity, in particular because of a lack of information on their chances of admission and on the criterion of the school of origin. This phenomenon is particularly evident in the high-voltage universities, in the Paris region and in some large agglomerations. Self-censorship is a reality that we must take into account to help students in their orientation choices. I would also like to know your position on these opinions and your recommendations on transparency. How can Parcoursup be improved to ensure that the principle of equality between all students is respected?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u179	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u180	Your question allows me to go back to the transformation carried out by the law on the orientation and success of students of 8 March 2018 and on the functioning of the platform "Parcoursup", which I would like to remind the national representative that, despite the health crisis, it has allowed to maintain the timetable for 2020 of the procedure of access to higher education and to offer this year 16800 trainings to more than 950,000 candidates. Compared to 2017, 3000 additional training courses have been offered on the Parcoursup platform and 150,000 additional candidates have expressed their wishes. Enriching the offer of training offered to candidates, improving the service provided to users by accompanying them in the procedure and personalising the courses to improve their success in the first cycle, this is the action that I have been taking over the last three years. But, I want to point out, transparency is not the great forgotten of the ORE law. It is at the heart of the law that you have passed, because, like you, I believe it is essential for a successful and chosen direction. In fact, the situation has changed dramatically since the time of the PDB, as you have recalled. The Parcoursup algorithm was made fully public as early as 2018, as required by law. An ethical and scientific committee was set up under the chairmanship of Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, former president of CNIL. He is independent in his study of the functioning of Parcoursup and has already submitted two reports to Parliament on which I have relied to develop the platform. The data on the operation of the platform are public. Each day, everyone can follow the outcome indicators and, at the start of each new campaign, all the results of the previous campaign are made available in data opened by the Ministry's statistical office. In essence, the debate that remains is that of access to the criteria used by the training itself. Here again, I would like to recall the progress made, but also the prospects on which we are working with the institutions. Many fantasies are maintained, sometimes on purpose, on the famous local algorithms that would decide blindly and automatically the fate of high school students. The reality that the teachers I meet speak to me about is not that, but that of teaching teams examining very different dossiers with the aim of welcoming the candidates who will succeed in the trainings, that of the remarkable work done in the commissions for access to higher education by the national and higher education teams. We're a long way from drawing lots. This is what the Constitutional Council recalled on 3 April last year by validating the legality of the Coursup procedure, recognizing that it was not automatic and that the secrecy of the jury's deliberations was not the appearance of the arbitrary, as some would like to make it believe. This does not mean that progress should not be made on transparency; This is what the Constitutional Council has invited all the formations to do. To implement the recent decision of the Constitutional Council, we will work with higher education associations and conferences to ensure that all information is published in mid-September.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u181	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor to put his question, No. 1110, concerning the preservation of professional skills in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u182	My question is for the Minister of Labour. The health crisis has led to an unprecedented economic crisis, which has led to a thorough review of public policies for the preservation of skills. In many leading sectors, the training and skill development of an employee can take several years. This is particularly the case in the aeronautics and space sector, present in the department of Haute-Garonne where I am elected. This sector, which is virtually at a standstill, requires an extremely skilled workforce. However, in the current context of a decline in activity, companies only have two possibilities to prevent economic redundancies: to offer training to their employees or to place them in partial employment. These schemes have shown their interest but unfortunately do not generate growth or wealth throughout the duration of training or partial unemployment. It is therefore necessary to innovate and that is why I am proposing today the creation of an ambitious secondment scheme, in partnership with the regions, which have competence to promote economic development, innovation and vocational training. A company in difficulty, but wishing to retain its employees for its future needs because of their invaluable expertise, would detach them into a local public or private structure, with the aim of developing new poles of excellence. For example, an aeronautical engineer from Airbus in Toulouse could be seconded for a specified period of time to a research centre with the aim of accelerating the robotics and digitalisation necessary for the aeronautical industry, or to an innovative Toulouse start-up working in the field of mobilitys of the future or artificial intelligence. Thanks to a compensation mechanism, the process would benefit both the original company, which would safeguard valuable skills, and the host structure, which would have state-of-the-art, immediately operational skills, to create a new stream of excellence. To develop this third method of preventing economic redundancies and engage a virtuous circle, it is necessary to mobilize public and private funds, as well as all actors in the sector, ranging from French Tech to Bpifrance, regions, competitiveness centres, research laboratories, training institutions and universities. I would like to know the position of the Minister on this mechanism, which is already of interest to some trade unions such as the French Confederation of Labour, which we have heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u183	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u184	Please excuse the Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, on a trip to Brest about learning and employment. During the economic crisis we are experiencing, the Government has consistently maintained the jobs and skills of employees affected by the cessation of their activities in certain sectors, such as aeronautics. Several measures have made it possible, as a matter of urgency, to safeguard the competences. First of all, an unprecedented effort has led to the introduction of a very extensive and protective partial activity scheme, covering 13.5 million employees. In April, more than 8.6 million employees benefited from the scheme and were compensated; it will be extended in its present form until the end of September. Beyond that date, its parameters will be reviewed. At the same time, the long-term partial activity will take place on 1 July; It will support companies experiencing lasting declines in activity. In order to benefit from this, they will have to have a company agreement or be covered by a branch agreement, in accordance with the work orders. The long-term partial activity will make it possible to take more responsibility for companies and employees. The idea is to trust negotiations as close to the ground as possible to find solutions and preserve jobs. I would also like to recall the considerable efforts made to train employees in part-time unemployment with the National Training Foundation: 120,000 employees have benefited from 2 million hours of training, for which the State has committed almost 100 million euros. The scheme you are proposing is very close to the non-profit labour loan, which the Minister of Labour wanted to relax in the Act of 17 June 2020 on various provisions related to the health crisis and other urgent measures. Labour loans allow a company experiencing a decline in activity to make one of its employees available to a company faced with a shortage of staff, to preserve employment, to guarantee the full maintenance of wages and to safeguard skills, while responding to tensions associated with a temporary increase in activity in another sector. This arrangement is based on the agreement of the employee and the two companies; the Economic and Social Committee must be consulted. The employment contract between the employee and the employer shall not be broken or suspended; the employee continues to belong to the staff of the lending undertaking, in which he or she finds his or her place of work or an equivalent position at the end of the supply. In view of the current economic difficulties, the Minister of Labour wished to allow the amount invoiced by the lending firm to be lower than the salary paid when the interest of the user company so warrants. This will boost labour lending and make it easier for TPEs, SMEs and start-ups to take over.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u185	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-30-O1252.u186	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion, in further reading, of the draft law organizing the exit from the state of health emergency; Continuation of the discussion of the amending finance bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
