ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the first part of the 2021 finance bill (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u2	Under the conditions laid down by the Conference of Presidents, we come to Article 31 on the assessment of the levy made on the revenue of the State in respect of France's participation in the budget of the European Union (No 3399, Volume III, Annex 45; No 3403, Volume IX). The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u3	Having sent a friendly thought to Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to say that I am very pleased to be in front of your House to ask you, on behalf of the Government, to authorise the levy on the revenue of the State for the benefit of the European Union, which would amount to EUR 26.9 billion in 2021. This contribution must be seen in a very special context, even in a very exceptional way. First, Brexit is reflected in the departure from this year, with financial effect in the coming months, of a major contributor to the European budget, which necessarily led the European Union to wonder what ambition it wanted to give its policies from 2021 onwards. This ambition has not been eroded, but it is obvious that when a net contributor leaves the club, it has a financial impact – unless we give up on certain ambitions, which we have refused to do. The context is also exceptional because of the crisis of the covid-19, which required additional resources as early as 2020. Comparing the amount proposed for 2021 to the amount foreseen for the implementation of 2020 – after the amending budgets adopted also at European level – we can see that the increase envisaged for the revenue levy is almost divided by two – from more than 25% to more 15% – which represents an increase similar to that of the State budget between 2020 and 2021, in the context of an inevitable increase in our expenditure but also of a decrease in revenue at European level, since so-called "traditional" own resources, in particular customs duties, have also collapsed due to the impact of the crisis. Adding these two effects – that of the crisis of the fight against covid-19 and that of Brexit – results in 80% of the increase envisaged in the finance bill for 2021. It is also an exceptional context in which the European Union and its budget are mobilised to build a new multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 from 2021 onwards and thus have the means not only to deal with the current crisis, but also the means to invest and strengthen the effort devoted to the major transitions – economic, digital and ecological – and to improving the resilience, resilience, societies and economies, whose need has been highlighted by the crisis. In total, with the European Recovery Plan and the new Multiannual Financial Framework, Europe is providing more than EUR 2000 billion in resources for the coming years, almost double the amounts of the Multiannual Financial Framework which ends at the end of this year. It is a considerable effort, some will say too much, not enough will say others – some will even say both at the same time, which poses a problem of consistency – but I believe that this highlights the ambition of the European budget which will enter into force from 1 January next. I will come back to some of the highlights of this budget and the revenue levy proposed for adoption. I often hear about cuts. To be clear, this is the result of a budget negotiation compared to the initial proposals of the European Commission. It is therefore necessary to take a fair reference, considering that the resources devoted, for example, to the Erasmus programme, to research policy, to space policy, to defence policy and to external action, if they are not always at the level at which we would have liked to see them, are each time well above their current level; I believe that we should welcome this rather than downplaying the importance of these additional efforts. To be quite precise and complete, I must also mention all that, in this multiannual financial framework which will be implemented from 2021 onwards, all that France has achieved for its own priorities at the end of the budget negotiations. Firstly, the appropriations for the common agricultural policy and fisheries were stabilised, whereas two years ago, when this negotiation started, we were far from the point: the initial proposal would have led to a reduction of EUR 20 billion in the appropriations for the common agricultural policy, which was obviously unacceptable. We have also achieved strong growth in the resources devoted to the so-called "cohesion policy", the policy that supports our regions, of about EUR 50 billion, which will benefit the French regions, particularly our overseas territories, and enable them to accelerate the transition and support their investments. But what we have achieved above all in this financial framework and in the recovery plan behind it is the expression of European solidarity in the face of the crisis, with, in a few months, steps that no one would have imagined us taking, even in several years. The creation of a common debt will help support States in the recovery and strengthen the European Union's priority policies, including the economic response to the crisis. I know that debt can appear technocratic and sometimes questionable, but this innovation expresses, in essence, Europe's confidence in its common future: we do not owe ourselves over four decades – we do not receive funding over four decades – when there is doubt about the future of the joint project. This is what is at stake with this first resort to European debt: in the face of the crisis, all governments are mobilising debt capacity, and it is essential that Europe has such a capacity. This common debt also opens the door to deepening our solidarity, allowing the creation of new own resources – black and white in the agreement of 21 July – which will gradually put an end to the ever-changing debate on the right contribution of everyone to the European budget and the right return, which poisons European solidarity. We will probably come back to that. These new own resources, which we must put in place as soon as possible, will contribute to the European market, to our European budget, to our solidarity policies, those who currently benefit from Europe without participating in the collective effort: large digital companies and those that do not meet the same requirements as our companies and our fellow citizens in climate and environmental matters. On this and other issues, France's contribution to the European Union's budget is high and demanding, at the service of a strong ambition for Europe, that of being able to carry its priorities, values and interests into the world without weakness. While, for a long time, this speech has received little echo beyond our borders, the concerns behind it now seem to me to be largely embedded in European DNA. Whatever the name they are given, questions of power or sovereignty are omnipresent and open up prospects all over Europe. Whether it is trade policy, digital policy, industrial policy – which has long been a big word and the recovery plan will speed up – or industrial energy policy, Europe is finally starting to think differently. Finally, given the scale of its contribution, France will be vigilant about the proper implementation of these priorities, in particular the stimulus plan backed up by the budget, so that, in the first half of 2021, these financings can be put in place to serve our regions, our priorities and our recovery. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] France can be proud to contribute to this Europe which finally takes its power, sovereignty and destiny in its hands. I know that the examination of the French contribution will be an opportunity, which is healthy, to have a democratic debate on the European priorities and the way in which France contributes to them with its partners. This debate will begin in a moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u4	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u5	Far from remaining passive, the European Union has set itself two priorities from the beginning of the health crisis: managing the emergency; preparing for recovery. The Member States have all adopted almost the same principles of action. Managing the emergency, first of all, because Europe did not stand by during the crisis. As early as March, the European Council, on a proposal from the Commission, activated the general derogation clause of the Stability and Growth Pact, triggering the suspension of the European fiscal and macroeconomic framework. It was an unprecedented decision, since the clause had never been implemented before. In the same vein, EU state aid rules have been relaxed, allowing Member States to support their businesses. As a result, the Union quickly adopted its own "no matter what" and the Member States were able to implement their health, economic and social responses to the crisis. The activation of the general derogation clause does not mean that there is no longer supervision and that Europe has disappeared. The Commission and the European Council continue to give their views on national budgets, but on the basis of new priorities. Clearly, the fight against the epidemic, support for businesses and households and support for the most fragile are being promoted, rather than the only return to structural balance. Moreover, before the crisis, the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact had already appeared imperfect. They favoured pro-cyclical policies and were only partially accompanied by a genuine control of debt. The question of the quality of public expenditure in terms of growth has remained without real normative translation, and the rules have become very complex, unreadable and unforeseeable. However, let us acknowledge that the Pact has been flexible in the context of an unprecedented crisis. For the future, the question arises of the conditions for the exit of the general derogation clause beyond 2021. The strength of the euro area cannot be preserved without the supervision of public finances and national macroeconomic policies. We have seen what happened in the previous crisis, the sovereign debt crisis of 2010: excessive imbalances pose the risk of dislocation. The Secretary of State for European Affairs himself acknowledged this: "We cannot imagine re-establishing the same Stability and Growth Pact". I fully share this position. The new European rules will have to take into account the impact of the crisis on deficits and debt levels. They will have to encourage investment in order to get national economies back on track; I call in particular for these new rules to encourage productive investment and to take account of the imperatives of ecological transition. Let us return to the European treatment of the crisis. The response was not limited to the relaxation of legal rules: the Union mobilised € 540 billion to provide lending facilities to Member States, as well as to support the establishment of partial activity in these countries and mobilise private investment in connection with the European Investment Bank. The European Central Bank has also played a key role in alleviating tensions on the financial markets, with its programme to acquire emergency assets in the face of the pandemic amounting to EUR 1350 billion. This action has helped to preserve the stability of markets and to prevent interest rates on the debt of certain Member States – including France, it must be said – from taking off. The Central Bank has announced that this programme will be extended for as long as necessary, in any event at least until 2021. But, of course, the most ambitious response is that of the agreement reached at the European Council at the end of July, which concerns the next multi-annual financial framework and, above all, a European instrument for financing national recovery plans through the issuance – that is, innovation – of a common debt. Indeed, recovery is necessary in order to support the recovery of the continental economy. As such, €750 billion of funding is foreseen, which is unprecedented in European history. Of this amount, 312.5 billion will be paid directly to the Member States in the form of grants, the rest in the form of loans. These appropriations will be made available to finance national investment plans which will be reviewed by the European Commission and voted on by the Council. In this context, France would benefit a total of EUR 40 billion for its own recovery plan. Europe is therefore in debt, but it is in debt to finance its future. This plan is important for France, because the liveliness of our European partners, who are also our main trading partners, is crucial to contributing to the robustness of our economy. We can collectively welcome the agreement reached in July. Its implementation will require the unanimity of the Member States and then ratification by national parliaments, including ours and even by certain regional parliaments. Several countries have already made it clear that they could oppose the start of the ratification process, in order to avoid the implementation of a mechanism to protect the Union's financial interests against corruption and embezzlement. This is a point on which we must not give in: we must ensure that the money of European solidarity goes well to the revival of our continent's economy. Mr Secretary of State, as you said, the National Assembly must be mobilised on the subject; In order to do so, it will have to be duly informed. I also hope that the question of the repayment of the European loan will be raised and clarified today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u6	Couldn't we think about it before?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u7	There are two possible solutions at Community level: either we increase national contributions or we find new own resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u8	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u9	I am very much in favour of this second option, and by 2021 we will be putting in place a new contribution on recycled plastic, but this, I say very clearly, will not be enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u10	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u11	The philosophy of these own resources is not to increase existing taxes, which may happen if we increase national contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u12	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u13	In order to give an order of magnitude, it will be EUR 56 billion for France that will have to be disbursed if we do not find a solution in terms of own resources. What own resources? I am thinking, of course, of digital giants, but also of carbon imports and the tax on financial transactions, which we discussed last week when we examined several amendments to our national finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u14	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u15	The European Commission's work programme includes these new avenues and will need to be implemented quickly. In this regard, I regret that the draft CCCTB – a common consolidated corporate tax base – was not included in the conclusions of the July European Council. Finally, I come to the French contribution to the financing of the European budget, which is the subject of Article 31 of the finance bill, which is mobilising us this afternoon. It takes the form of a revenue levy, but we can see it as an expenditure from the general budget. This SRP for the European Union for 2021 is expected to increase by EUR 5.5 billion compared to the initial forecast for 2020, which is considerable. The French contribution would thus increase by 25% in one year. Why? First, the Brexit...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u16	Off the subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u17	... increases the payment to the European budget by EUR 2.1 billion. Secondly, the anticipated increase in expenditure for 2021 should amount to an additional EUR 1.6 billion. And then, of course, the consequences of the economic crisis on the Union's traditional own resources will have an impact of EUR 700 million on our SRP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u18	What about the discounts?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u19	A final factor, which increases our contribution from EUR 700 million to EUR 1 billion, is the increase in discounts negotiated by some Member States in July. In this regard, I regret that Fontainebleau's logic – Mrs Thatcher's famous "I want my money back" – has again prevailed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u20	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u21	...even if this has opened up the possibility of an agreement on the European Recovery Plan. The question will be all the more important for France when it comes to repaying the funds borrowed by the Commission: in addition to repaying the European recovery plan and its own recovery plan, the risk is that it will be used to repay discounts negotiated by other States – not necessarily those that need them most in the light of the demands of Community solidarity. These rebates – and this is the problem – are all elements that need to be questioned in the forthcoming negotiations on the decision on own resources, the multiannual financial calendar or the European budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u22	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u23	As you will have noted, I did not want to address the Brexit issue further, which will certainly be discussed this afternoon, because I prefer to look at the future of the Union: that is what is at stake; It is twenty-seven that we will build the future of Europeans. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In this context, I call for the validation of the Government's proposal on the SRP for the benefit of the European Union, in order to set the French share in the exercise of international solidarity to which we are most viscerally committed: that of European integration. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u24	The next speaker is Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u25	Before I speak on the subject on the agenda, I would like to associate my heart with the sadness that our country experienced last Friday after the abhorrent murder of a professor, who, according to fools, was guilty of doing his job. Like Erasmus, this European humanist figure, Mr Samuel Paty was the worthy defender of tolerance and freedom of conscience. In the preamble, I wanted to serve it in front of the national representation. We are here to discuss article 31 of the draft finance law for 2021, entitled "Receipt from State revenue in respect of France's participation in the budget of the European Union". As we devote only one sitting to the fourth largest budget mission of the State, I propose an epistemological reading so that some of us, as in the allegory of Plato, emerge from their dark cavern and finally see with their own eyes the intelligible reality that the European light of these advances would bring them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u26	Shit! Demonstrate this!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u27	Our contribution to the European budget in 2021 is estimated at €26.9 billion, an increase compared to the financial law for 2020, where it was estimated at €21.5 billion. In view of the reductive thinking that the interest of membership of the European Union would be limited only to the contribution of the European budget, it must be reaffirmed that the concept of net balance does not reflect all indirect benefits. This increase in resources for Europe, beyond Covid-19, obliges me to draw your attention to the absconding subtleties of this budget increase, in order to avoid any pitfalls. They are motivated by four factors of evolution. Firstly, the current health crisis has had a serious economic impact, and the European Union has shown its effectiveness. Thanks to its economic competence, it has provided many wide-ranging answers, notably with the establishment of a new European recovery plan, Next Generation EU, which I will come back to a little later. The second factor is European unity and firmness vis-à-vis the United Kingdom in the implementation of Brexit. This led to a change in the rules for calculating the contribution to the European budget under the commitments of the MFF – Multiannual Financial Framework – 2014-2020, in accordance with the withdrawal agreement which entered into force on 31 January. The third factor concerns the European Council last July, which has laid down new rules for calculating national contributions, which will have an impact on the French contribution, given that rebates in favour of certain Member States are maintained. Finally, as a fourth factor, the ambition of the new MFF is expected to translate into an increase of EUR 10.6 billion in the budget by 2021. In view of the above, the French contribution is expected to average €28 billion per year over the period 2021-2027. I come back to the year 2021, which will be a pivotal moment in two ways. On the one hand, the implementation of Brexit means not only the loss of a Member State, but also of the second net contributor, before France. In this respect, the French position is firm as to the conditions for the future relationship with the United Kingdom: no derogatory status in its capacity as a former Member State can be recognised. Good time! On the other hand, 2021 will be the first of a new multi-annual financial framework: the MFF 2021-2027, for which an unprecedented agreement was reached at the European Council last July. I commend the work done by the Heads of State and Government to reach this compromise. While some have been able to criticise the fact that the MFF 2021 was less ambitious than the one proposed by the Commission, it should not be forgotten that its total volume represents almost 1.8% of GNI – gross national income – of the 27 Member States, compared to about 1.08 %, excluding the United Kingdom, for the MFF 2014-2020. More specifically, I stress that this budget preserves several major interests for France. The first is the increase in the allocation for the common agricultural policy: the CAP will have EUR 386.7 billion for the period 2021-2027, an increase of EUR 22 billion over the current period. Let us remember that France has been anxious to sanctify this budget and that the Union is not an obstacle to the defence of our national interests – on the contrary, in many respects they can be largely complementary. Second, the environmental component will be strengthened with a system of greater conditionalities for direct aid and the introduction of eco-schemes supporting practices beneficial to the environment and climate. I also stress the exponential increase in the European Defence Fund, which is 250% higher than the previous MFF. The European budget, like our national budget, knows a special feature for the coming years: the historic recovery effort that accompanies it and strengthens it through a specific plan. You should realize that this programme, which is intended to prepare and repair the future of the Union, represents almost five times the amount of the traditional budget! This recovery plan, which will be accompanied by EUR 750 billion, should enable the Union to rebuild itself in the context of the covid-19 pandemic and to support investments, particularly in the green and digital transitions. For France this corresponds to 40 billion euros: how can we not point out that our country will be the third beneficiary? However, no one knows that an ambitious budget rhymes with expensive funding. That is why I would like to end by referring to the reform of own resources, but also to the introduction of new resources. The new MFF is taking an important step by taking into account a new resource from next year: the contribution to non-recycled plastic packaging, which has already been mentioned. This resource is expected to generate a gain of around €6 billion for the European Union. That is not all: in its agreement last July, the European Council added that the Union would try to imagine a new basket of own resources in the coming years, the products of which will be allocated to the early repayment of the loans required by the plan. To those who claim that it would be enough to cancel the debt, to those free meal sellers who put forward the simplistic idea that it is enough to ask the ECB – the European Central Bank – to continue to make debt available to the States, and then to embalm it in a sarcophagus for a hundred years, I reply that this option is simply unrealistic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u28	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u29	We must therefore make this budget available to those who benefit from Europe and who pay too little today. I would therefore like to use this forum to present my views on another own resource: the tax on financial transactions, which, like the tricolor TTF in force since the LFR in 2012, will allow us to put, at European level, "sand grains in the workings" of financial capitalism,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u30	Wow! What courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u31	... according to the expression of his inventor, James Tobin. This famous TTF, many renowned economists share the idea that it would fund, at least in part, the current crisis. Indoorous for the European taxpayer, it receives, beyond the German position, the support of an increasing number of parliamentarians, both national and European – and, by the way, French citizens. If I tell you about it, it is because by bringing in up to EUR 50 billion a year, it would make it possible to repay the European recovery plan while increasing the ceilings of the next MFF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u32	Finally, more generally, it seems to me essential that the European Union should have its own resources commensurate with its ambitions. [[Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon exclaimed]] But let us go beyond these considerations of budgetary consolidation: in the face of the democratic and health crisis in Europe, I am convinced that priority must be given to anchoring this debate in the national democratic space. During each crisis, Europe was able to show tangible solidarity. As we face a rise in individualism, communalism and nationalism, as citizens' expectations of Europe grow, it is undeniable that the European action carried out by the President of the Republic, in responding to a need for incarnation, brought many new things to the ground: never had a President of the Republic impulsed such a dynamic. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Secretary of State, I know that we share the vision of a Europe that can only move forward by being proud of its past. Before you were the builder of this new method, you were the carpenter; Here you are now the watchmaker of this beautiful mechanics. Europeans need a great shared purpose. We know that the Government is aware of this urgency. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to pass clause 31 of the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u33	The next speaker is Mr Gilles Carrez, alternate Mr Eric Woerth, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u34	The European levy paid by France will increase by 25% in 2021 and will continue to grow in the following years. In our budgetary history, such a level – EUR 26.09 billion – had never been reached. Hence a legitimate question: are France's financial interests well defended?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u35	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u36	Has the agreement of the Heads of State and Government of 21 July not been reached at the expense of France?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u37	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u38	That is the question that I will try to answer. It is not a question of energizing the chorus "I want my money back". Most members of the Republican Group support Europe. Without going back to General de Gaulle, let us recall that Presidents Chirac and Sarkozy have demonstrated their commitment to Europe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u40	...but still knowing how to defend the interests of our country. The departure of the French levy in 2021 has objective explanations, you mentioned, Mr Secretary of State: increase in payment appropriations and the budget, departure from the United Kingdom, impact of the economic crisis on own resources. However, it has another very worrying reason: the change in the rules for calculating national contributions, with the famous discounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u41	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u42	And this is a double defeat for France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u44	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] Our position was clear: thanks to Brexit, we had to finish once and for all with the opaque and unfair system of discounts. We have lost on this principle. And we are made to drink the chalice up to the lee: discounts increase sharply to the benefit of the so-called "frugal" countries,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u45	Bad people and selfish people! Even thugs for some!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u46	... who have sold their agreement on the European recovery plan dearly. Be aware: five times the Swedish or Austrian discount, two to three times the Dutch or Danish discount, not to mention the substantial advantages over the costs of collecting customs duties for the Netherlands, Belgium and even Germany! For how many more years will France finance the rebates of European countries where per capita income is higher than ours?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u47	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u48	France becomes the second largest net contributor to the European budget after Germany. In recent years, the average surplus was around €7 billion; It's going to grow to over 10 billion euros. The other reason for our concern, which is even more serious, is the way in which the European Recovery Plan is financed, with the possibility for the European Union to borrow up to EUR 750 billion and to redistribute it to the Member States for about half a half in the form of grants or loans. We are not opposed to the principle of European borrowing, which has been practiced in the past and which we have supported. Borrowing to invest at a time when financial market conditions are very favourable is a good policy. But the amount is considerable and the return for France is limited: 40 billion euros on subsidies, it is barely a year and a half of European levy. Above all, the rapporteur-general has just pointed out that the question of the repayment arrangements which will arise from 2028 onwards is not dealt with at all. As you know, if we continue to outstrip ourselves with our own resources, it is the contributions of the national budgets that will explode, starting with France's. However, with a debt of 120 per cent of GDP and deficits that the Government is unable to control, this prospect is simply unsustainable for our country. And, with the exception of the tax on plastic packaging, European own resources remain a chimera. I will take a first example: the financial transaction tax, the FTT. We created it in France in March 2012, under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u49	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u50	It was greatly increased under the previous legislature. Unfortunately, we find it very difficult to export our tax frenzy. For three years, I remember Michel Sapin, here, promised us the European agreement on the generalisation of the TTF: it was a matter of a few months, then of a few weeks, then of a few days. When I read the rapporteur-general's excellent report,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u51	Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u52	... I am not reassured: "the Union must strive to put in place other own resources during the next MFF, which could include a tax on financial transactions", on the conditional.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u53	That's how it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u54	Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us whether the Bundestag has adopted a tax on financial transactions? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u55	We don't need to create a European TTF!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u56	The GAFA tax, on digital giants, we, French, voted for it. I myself, last year, welcomed the efforts of Minister Bruno Le Maire in this regard. However, we must note that we had to retreat: no one wants to follow us. Our fiscal messianism leaves me more and more skeptical: it does not work very well. Another question, Mr Secretary of State: What is the status of the European digital tax? Did you still believe that? As for the carbon tax at borders, that is a good idea that we agree with. How many years will it take to implement it? Ten years, twenty years, thirty years? In approving the agreement of 21 July, the President of the Republic has certainly shown great optimism, but the border between optimism and naivety is tenuous. Didn't we make a deal that day? However, these European taxes – carbon tax, digital services tax, financial transaction tax – are of real strategic interest, provided that they do not weigh too much on consumers in each Member State. They compensate for part of Europe's environmental, social and fiscal dumping in the face of international competition. It is also a way to better protect our activities and jobs. That is why the Republican Group agrees with the principle. France is and must remain a driving force for Europe, but it must also be able to defend its interests firmly. In the time given to me, it is not possible for me to mention the pillar of the common agricultural policy – so far, it seems – preserved, nor our concerns about European support for our ultramarine territories, industrial and structural policies, research and fisheries. No doubt our country is benefiting from these interventions from Europe. The counterpart to the new multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 and the bill for the recovery plan will, however, weigh more heavily on us. The financial constraint on a heavily contributing country is becoming a major issue, as discussed in section 31 of the Finance Bill for 2021. The rapporteur-general estimates in his report that the total percentage of net expenditure in the budget on the European levy is 7.2%. I repeat, it is a record: we have never known this until now. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] Mr Secretary of State, we will ask you to report regularly to our committees – the Committee on Finance and the Committee on European Affairs – on these matters, and not only once a year, during this budgetary debate. The risks of financial slippage are considerable and the deterioration of our public finances no longer allows us to drift, including at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u57	Mr Pascal Brindeau, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u58	We are looking at Article 31 of the 2021 Finance Bill, which evaluates the levy on State revenue for the benefit of the European Union budget. This year, he deserves further attention than in previous years, because he intervenes in a very particular context, I would point out: 2021 is the first year of the new multiannual financial framework, which reflects the growing political ambitions of a European Union whose geography is, alas, shrinking for the first time in its history. The significant increase in this levy under the next MFF is the materialisation of Brexit and the European response to the health and economic crisis. After 2021, a trend is emerging for the next seven years, in the continuity of the guidelines which were fiercely negotiated at last July's European Council, which enabled the Union to make a qualitative and quantitative leap. The draft finance law estimates the amount of the levy to be 26.9 billion euros, an increase of 25% compared to the initial finance law for 2020. This increase is due to a number of reasons: an increase in the appropriations of the European Union budget; compensation for departure from the United Kingdom; changes in the rules for calculating national contributions, including increases in rebates and the introduction of a tax on non-recycled plastic packaging; consequences of the economic crisis of the covid-19 on the EU's traditional own resources. On average, between 2021 and 2027, the SRP is estimated at EUR 28 billion per year, an average of 8 billion compared to the previous multiannual financial framework. Even more than in previous years, this forecast is subject to many uncertainties. First of all, this year's interinstitutional negotiations focus on a budget package with major stakes composed of the new MFF, the recovery plan and own resources, a fundamental issue, which makes them particularly delicate. Secondly, the European Union is facing two major crises. Firstly, the health crisis has led to an economic crisis of which the extent of the crisis is obviously not yet known: according to the European Union Statistical Office, between April and June the euro area experienced an unprecedented drop of 12.1% of its GDP, due to the drastic measures implemented to curb the epidemic of coronavirus. Secondly, the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union poses many uncertainties as to the conditions under which it will take place and its economic consequences for France and the other Member States. The year 2021 thus marks the beginning of a new era that will require reinvention to draw the consequences of these two crises. In line with the Franco-German initiative of May 2020, the response of the European Council of July 2020 marks a political and budgetary turning point for the Union, which is based on three pillars with close interlinkages: the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, the recovery plan and own resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u59	With regard to the recovery plan, the proposal to borrow EUR 750 billion on the markets on behalf of the European Union in order to support the regions and sectors most affected by the crisis, while respecting European policies, is a major step in strengthening European integration. This financial effort results in a significant increase in the multiannual budget, which the European Council increased on 21 July to 1.8% of the Union's GNI, compared with 1.02 % previously. The main objectives that Member States' national plans will have to meet in order to benefit from the recovery plan – the green transition and digital – correspond to French priorities. The criteria used to define the distribution of funds between Member States, including the unemployment rate in recent years and the impact of the health crisis on GDP, should make France the third beneficiary of the recovery plan after Italy and Spain: under the recovery plan, our country should benefit from a total amount of around EUR 45.8 billion. The new multi-annual financial framework, complemented by the funds of the recovery plan, reflects the balance between preserving so-called "traditional" policies and new priorities, of which the Green Pact and climate neutrality targets in 2050 are probably the most emblematic. The fall in the CAP budget, proposed by the Commission in 2018, was a major concern for France. We can welcome the fact that, in the Council's position, the CAP budget is now increasing by EUR 19.6 billion, an increase of 1.6% over the previous MFF. Nevertheless, I am opposed to the decline in POSEI's appropriations – a programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity – for ultramarine territories, as this reduction undermines the economic and technological competitiveness of ultramarine agricultural sectors. With regard to the new priorities, let us stress the strengthening of climate objectives: the Council has increased the share of total MFF spending and the climate recovery plan from 25 to 30 per cent. This budgetary effort is consistent with the legislative arsenal announced by the Commission under the Green Pact, whose backbone is the climate law, which significantly increases the ambitions of the Union's carbon reduction trajectory. Let us also welcome the introduction for the first time of a cross-compliance mechanism for access to European credits on the basis of respect for the rule of law, even if its modalities are still the subject of fierce negotiations between the European institutions. However, we have two main regrets. Firstly, we regret the Council's less ambitious approach to certain programmes than to the Commission, notably the EUR 1 billion space programme and the European Defence Fund, which is deprived of EUR 4.4 billion. Secondly, while Brexit seemed to be an opportunity to put an end to the discounts enjoyed by different countries, they were, on the contrary, strengthened. This was one of the conditions imposed by the so-called "frugal" countries to accept the recovery plan proposed by the Commission. In pursuing the reflection on own resources, made imperative by the Union's future financing needs, the abolition of rebates will have to be put back on the table in order to go beyond the logic of fair return, which the recovery plan shows more than ever is limited. In this respect, while the European Council agreed only on the introduction, by 2021, of a new own resource based on the quantity of non-recycled plastic packaging waste, recognition of the need to create new own resources is a significant step in a debate that seemed blocked. For example, the Council invited the Commission to make proposals in the first half of 2021 for the introduction of a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders and a digital-based own resource, with a view to implementation by 1 January 2023 at the latest. These two types of resources seem to be the most mature, because they correspond to the political priorities of the Union, even though there are still many political and technical obstacles. In the long run, a revision of the European carbon trading system and the creation of other own resources that could include a tax on financial transactions should be proposed. Follow-up to these proposals will depend not only on the evolution of national contributions to the European budget, but also on Europe's ability to make progress in tax fairness, since these taxes would target actors who benefit from the European market without contributing sufficiently, or who are not subject to the same environmental constraints as European actors. From this point of view, the Union suffers from a great institutional weakness: the rule of unanimity in tax matters, which may hinder progress in this area. While Brexit and the crisis have increased the risk of fragmentation of the Union, the decision to borrow jointly and increase own resources reaffirms a shared project, the willingness of States to commit themselves jointly and sustainably. That is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs has adopted section 31 of the finance bill, in which I, in turn, invite you to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u60	Mrs Isabelle Rauch, Deputy Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u61	This year, the debate on the European levy takes on a particular dimension. Faced with an unprecedented health and economic crisis and questioned by Brexit, the European Union was at risk of dangerous fragmentation. This is precisely the opposite with the recovery plan and the choice of joint debt: the Union is taking an unprecedented step in European integration and solidarity through the agreement of the European Council of July 2020, which is in line with the logic of the Franco-German initiative of 18 May 2020. The European Recovery Plan symbolizes the choice of Member States to reaffirm their common project by committing themselves, on a long-term basis, to a joint response to the crisis and the immense challenges facing the Union. In this context, the European levy is the technical materialisation of the Union's new political ambitions and the increase in European solidarity. Among the Union's priorities, let us welcome the centrality of the fight against climate change: it is at the heart of the new multiannual financial framework and the recovery plan, of which 30% of total expenditure will be devoted to climate. In particular, we welcome the proposal to finance 30% of the recovery plan with green bonds, which will make the Union the world's leading issuer of such instruments and help to launch a global green bond market based on European rules. The climate law currently under negotiation, which sets the climate neutrality target in 2050 and brings the 2030 carbon reduction target from 40% to at least 55%, will allow the Union to maintain its leadership in climate negotiations for a year that is set to be decisive in this area, with the updating of nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement and the holding of COP26 in Glasgow in November 2021. In the fight against climate change and the protection of the environment, the Union can play on a range of instruments: cross-cutting strategies such as the farm-to-farm or biodiversity strategy, but also tax instruments such as the carbon tax at borders and the carbon trading system, and trade policy. In this respect, as the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marielle de Sarnez, has repeatedly pointed out, to whom I would like to reaffirm our full support here, it is not only necessary to link the conclusion of any new trade agreement with strict compliance with the Paris climate agreement, but also to be able to immediately re-establish substantial customs duties in case of breach of environmental obligations, including for existing agreements. The European Commission is preparing a review of its trade policy; We will be careful to ensure that the French claims are properly taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u62	You bet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u63	Another area of satisfaction for France is that the budget for the common agricultural policy has been preserved, with an increase of 6% compared to the European Commission's proposal. The crisis has confirmed the strategic nature of agriculture, which must be accompanied in its transition to a more sustainable model. On the other hand, in an international context marked by great instability, we regret the inadequacy of European ambitions for certain defence programmes, in particular. Of course, a European Defence Fund has been set up, but its amount remains set at EUR 16.4 billion. The European budget must also be put at the service of the fundamental values of the Union. In this respect, the introduction of a mechanism to make access to European credits conditional on respect for the rule of law is a significant step forward. The interinstitutional negotiations on this subject are very delicate, but we hope that this mechanism will effectively preserve the European budget from the abuses found in some Member States. Finally, the Union's future financing needs are a historic opportunity to move forward on the issue of the Union's own resources and to go beyond the logic of just return, whose recovery plan increases the lapse. The July European Council agreed on the need to create new own resources: this is a significant breakthrough in a debate until now frozen. Many political and technical obstacles remain to be overcome, and the European institutions must agree on the nature of these resources and their timing for their introduction. However, by 2021, the Commission will present its first proposals to create a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders and a digital-based own resource for application by 1 January 2023 at the latest. Due to the need to repay the recovery plan, own resources based on digital taxation and financial transactions are also justified by the requirement of fairness. They target actors who have emerged great winners of the crisis, who do not make a fair contribution to Europe when they benefit from it, or who do not respect the same environmental constraints. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] With this fiscal package based on a close interlinkage between the Multiannual Financial Framework, the Recovery Plan and own resources, the European Union is giving itself the means to confirm its leadership in climate and environmental matters and to respond to the economic crisis in solidarity. In order to begin to assert itself in terms of tax fairness, it remains to overcome the major institutional fragility of the rule of unanimity in tax matters. We call for an early interinstitutional agreement in order to allow the national parliaments time to ratify the decision on own resources before the end of the year and for the first projects financed by the recovery plan to be implemented from the beginning of 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u64	Mr Aleksandr Holroyd, the information rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u65	As every year, we look at the French contribution to the budget of the European Union, in a particular exercise: in my opinion, it is more like a finding than a debate. Thus, every year we approve a revenue levy calculated by applying learned formulas and sometimes negotiated several years before. Beyond this annual discussion, which is often technical and arid, it has been its exceptional character for three years. I use the adjective 'exceptional' in its own sense: in essence, it is one of the very few occasions that we in the House have to seriously address European issues. Last week, we examined the first part of the draft budget for 2021. Several articles in the Government's text are the implementation of European decisions. In the course of the debates, several hundred amendments of parliamentary origin were rejected, often on the ground that they contravened European law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u66	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u67	Let us be very clear: I do not make a criticism here,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u68	You don't feel allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u69	... but a finding that is set out in two realities calling for an increasingly urgent institutional evolution. The first of these realities, of which the examination of the budget is just one example, is that European affairs concern, affect, enrich, limit and frame an immense part of the work that we are dealing with on a daily basis, in particular the bills on which we have to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u70	That's just too true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u71	I have often heard you say, Mr Secretary of State, that Europe is concrete for our citizens. I share your opinion and your conviction that it is for the best that our Union acts. That said, it must be noted that this is not enough concrete for this House, at least, to look at these issues in detail. The second reality is that the role of the National Assembly in the process of European deliberation is limited – to use a litot. To my knowledge, none of the parliaments of the other 26 Member States of the Union is "self-marginalised" as much as ours with regard to the decisions taken in Brussels. I do not make a partisan remark here or a criticism of the functioning of the European Union. A European fervent, I am sorry for a reality that those who do not share any of my convictions in this matter are likely to feel as well. A few weeks ago, we were sorry together, Mr Secretary of State, that the media gave very little or no importance to President von der Leyen's speech on the State of Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u72	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u73	This speech, however, commits our country to fundamental issues. It seems just as dismaying to me that national representation has not discussed this much more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u75	That said, the debate on the French contribution to the European budget is the small alcove of the Bourbon Palace in which we can talk about Europe: let us talk about it. The Government plans to increase the revenue levy to the European Union by 25 per cent. This increase, which naturally challenges us, bears the name of three upheavals that we are experiencing: two crises and a fundamental evolution of our Union. The first major crisis is the full and effective Brexit. We have been talking about it for so long that we will gladly forgive those who think it has taken place fully, as well as those who think it will never take place. The United Kingdom did indeed emerge from the European Union on 31 January 2020, and our contribution to the budget reflects this exit for two reasons. Firstly, it is one of the major contributors to the budget that emerged from the European Union with the United Kingdom. Secondly, thanks to the action and commitment of the President of the Republic and yourself, Secretary of State, this exit was not an opportunity to cut into the Union's programmes, as some would have wished. We therefore endorse, through this revenue levy, the choice made by Europe to continue to support its agriculture and youth, to redouble its commitment to ecological transition and research, and to affirm its willingness to build up the means to weigh in the world of tomorrow. It is united as it has rarely been and confident in its future, thanks, among other things, to the action and voluntarism of France, that Europe is approaching the end of the transition period granted to the United Kingdom under the Brexit. But the hardest thing is yet to come. We must continue to work until the last minute, to negotiate an agreement governing our relationship with the United Kingdom, which meets a twofold requirement. First, for the very existence of the Union, it is imperative that the agreement does not allow a third State to enjoy its benefits without being subject to its rules and obligations. It must, however, and it is perhaps the greatest challenge, be the basis of a close, even intimate relationship with a partner who, for a millennium, has been more a cousin than a mere neighbour, who shares our values and our conception of an international order based on the rule of law. What Brexit imposes on us is to answer a question that we have refused to formulate so far: how can we structure an immediate neighbourhood policy for Europe that does not inevitably lead to enlargement? The irony is that it is the prospect of a narrowing rather than an enlargement that allows this debate. The second major crisis that explains the rebound in our contribution is, of course, the health and economic crisis that we are going through. The increase in the appropriations for the payment of the European budget between 2020 and 2021 is partly due to the solidarity shown by the Union since the outbreak of the coronavirus crisis. Since the beginning of the year, Europe has made every effort to support European economies and strengthen health systems. The mobilisation of the EU budget has made it possible to finance measures to support farmers and fishermen in the face of temporary cessation of their activity, to purchase medical supplies, to repatriate citizens stranded abroad, to transfer patients, to set up field hospitals, to pre-order doses of vaccine or to help SMEs or the most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u76	Unbelievable! The minister in charge of this matter doesn't say that! He says it was France that did everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u77	I would add that our membership of the European Union itself brings us stability and protection: without the single currency and the resolute action of the European Central Bank, could our country have been in debt in the same way to protect our businesses and our citizens? In addition to these two crises – Brexit and Coronavirus – are the beginnings of a significant evolution of own resources. The revenue levy for 2021 differs from the previous ones in that its scope evolves to incorporate a new resource of the Union: the ill-named "plastic tax", this neologism can cause confusion as to the nature of this resource, because it is not a new levy on industry or consumers, but simply a new method of calculating national contributions, playing on the state budget. France pays about 20 % of the total contribution on plastics, which reduces the level of the contribution based on gross national income due to competition, but as the revenue from the tax exceeds the weight of France in the Union's GNI, this results in a slight additional cost to the national budget. This plastic contribution reflects a necessary change: to see the Union's budget revive with its origins through an evolution towards own resources, such as customs duties. This development is all the more important in view of the repayment of the joint loan of the recovery plan, which marks a historic step in the construction of Europe. I know, Mr Secretary of State, that you are making every effort to implement the agreement reached at the July European Council on the next multiannual financial framework and the Recovery PlanNext Generation EU. While the current deterioration in the health situation affects the confidence of households and economic actors, we cannot give the impression of political hindrances or add an additional source of concern. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond the crisis, the French contribution to the European budget must contribute to the evolution of the Union as you have recently described it: "Conceived as a project of internal reconciliation, political Europe must today acquire the four essential attributes for any political community that lasts and asserts itself: borders, appropriate institutions, an agenda of power and a sense of belonging. Let me add the imperative of furthering economic integration and solidarity. It is on a sustainable and shared prosperity that Europe can build up, and it is to it that our Assembly will contribute by voting for this revenue levy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u78	Mrs Sabine Thillaye, chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u79	This year's increase in the revenue levy for the European Union is no surprise. In the face of the UK's departure and the dramatic health and economic crisis, we must fully assume this increase, which reflects the choice of maintaining European ambition. I am always very surprised that some of our colleagues insist on tabling amendments to reduce the amount of the assessment of this levy. This is not in fact a ceiling of expenditure, as in the case of the missions of the second part of the PLF, but an information from Parliament on the sum owed by France to the Union budget pursuant to the decision on own resources: to change this amount would in no way alter the amount of the levy due by France in accordance with its international commitments; So to propose it is pure demagogy, a fortiori when we demand at the same time more money from the European Union for our farmers or fishermen. This forecast will certainly, as every year, be subject to a significant revision based on actual expenditure and the return on customs and VAT revenues, since the so-called "GNI" resource, which constitutes most of the SRP, is a resource of equilibrium. But the uncertainty about the assessment of the revenue levy is even greater this year than usual. First of all, it is economic: the slowdown in activity leads to a reduction in revenue from customs duties and VAT, which mechanically leads to an increase in the contribution to gross national income, in a context where, at the same time, the Union increases its expenditure to help European states, businesses and citizens cope with the crisis. It may also lead to a change in the margin of contributions based on gross national income. The second major uncertainty surrounding the assessment of the revenue levy is of a more political nature: the delay in adopting the multiannual financial framework for the years 2021 to 2027 unfortunately leads us to have to put the plough before the ox. The Union budget for 2021, the first of the multiannual financial framework, had to be drawn up before it was adopted. France's contribution was assessed on the basis of the Commission's draft budget, revised by the German Presidency to take account of the agreement reached at the European Council in July. It is likely to evolve according to the final agreement on the MFF. While the agreement of the European Council on the Recovery Plan and the Multiannual Financial Framework, in July, not only provided us with relief but raised some hope, the evolution of the negotiations raises some concerns. The July agreement was torn off at the price of concessions on both sides but also of some ambiguity regarding the cross-compliance regime aimed at protecting the Union budget in the event of a general failure of the rule of law in a Member State. If it has made it possible to reach an agreement in the European Council, this ambiguity has only delayed the solution of a difficulty that we are still facing. The European Council appeared divided on the proposal for a regulation. A significant minority of Member States opposed the compromise proposed by the German Presidency, some even threatening to block the decision on own resources, which must be adopted unanimously, until they were satisfied. There is an urgent need to ensure that the economic and social situation is sufficiently serious that there are no further delays in the start-up of the programmes of the European budget and the recovery plan, on which the Member States have relied in drawing up their national plans. For our part, we are ready to ratify quickly the decision on own resources in order to allow the European Commission to launch the loans necessary to finance the recovery plan. This decision, subject to its final adoption and ratification by all national parliaments, includes several important innovations. This is the first time since the creation of the GNI resource that a new category of own resources has been created, many colleagues have noted. I welcome this first step towards diversification of the Union's own resources, which aims to contribute to the achievement of its ecological transition objectives. This first welcome step, however, remains modest and the limits must be recognized. First of all, it is not really fresh money but a national contribution calculated according to a different key than the GNI-based resource. Its aim is also to encourage us to catch up with the recycling of plastic packaging, and its performance will be reduced as it achieves its objective of changing behaviour. It is therefore not a future resource for the Union's budget. The second innovation is otherwise important, to the point that I will call it a qualitative leap: it is the authorisation that the decision on own resources will give the European Commission to borrow on the markets 750 billion euros to finance the recovery plan, in the form of loans to the states of 360 billion euros and expenditure of 390 billion euros. We can certainly share the regrets about this decision on own resources. We all agree that Brexit should have led to the elimination of rebates. However, the five Member States, which, outside the United Kingdom, enjoyed a discount, managed not only to keep them but to increase the amount. This is regrettable, but it is also the price of negotiating the recovery plan and the crisis agreement; All negotiations involve compromises, especially when there are twenty-seven around the table. Of course, we will not have to wait until we are at the foot of the wall in 2028 to be more ambitious in the introduction of new own resources. I fully support the European Parliament's request for a precise timetable for the introduction of new resources before 2028 in order to be able to repay the interest and capital of the loan linked to Next Generation EU without having to increase national contributions further or to reduce the financing of the programmes of the European budget. For the duration of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, the financing of the recovery plan has very limited consequences for the revenue levy. The European budget will finance only the payment of coupons, while the capital will be repaid over the period only up to the amounts not used, as foreseen, for the payment of interest, or through new own resources. From 2028 on the other hand, reimbursement of the principal will be borne by the European Union budget, and a package of substantial new resources will be needed to avoid a rebound in national contributions, which would be very difficult to accept after this year's, under the effect of Brexit. The subject is difficult, but it is in the interest of all Member States. [[Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff applauds]] I will not go back to own resources, which have been widely mentioned by my colleagues. As I said in the introduction, we must assume the increase in the French contribution to a budget that reflects the maintenance of European ambition, but we must also ensure the future development of the European project. The subject will be on the agenda of the Conference on the Future of Europe, which is expected to be launched very soon. Together, we must ask ourselves the right questions: what are the priorities of the European Union? What should its institutional framework be? How can we move forward together, to twenty-seven? Let us acknowledge that for twenty-seven Member States, which speak twenty-four languages, which have sometimes common but sometimes also divergent histories and cultures, it is not always easy to move forward. Yet we have been demonstrating for decades that we are moving forward, even if it is complicated. As you know, Secretary of State, I feel very much that the National Assembly is dealing with more European issues, and I hope that we will do so. I would like a debate to take place in the Chamber before the meetings of the European Council, so that all the parliamentary groups can speak out on European issues and put them at the heart of our concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u80	We come to the statements of the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u81	It is with great emotion that I express myself at the rostrum of the National Assembly for the first time since the horrific assassination of our compatriot Samuel Paty, since this cowardly Islamist terrorist attack against one of our teachers, against one of the "black hussars of the Republic", as they were called under the Third Republic. On behalf of my political family, the Republican Right, allow me to reaffirm all the admiration and support we have for the teachers of France. I am speaking here as a representative of the nation, in front of the French flag, in front of the colours of our national flag. In the Chamber, the French flag is flanked by the European flag; It is very happy, from my point of view, and that is the subject we are dealing with today. I will not engage in great lyrical flights concerning the European project, the European Union, our common destiny, this unique project in the history of humanity that we share and support with our neighbours. The French are tired of great speeches and hollow sentences, on Europe as well as on other subjects – I too, in fact, to be quite frank. The political family from which I came, that of General de Gaulle, Georges Pompidou, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy, the one who had the honour of counting Simone Veil in his ranks, has worked hard to reconcile the peoples of Europe – between the German and French peoples in the first place – and to build a common destiny. So we have nothing to prove, neither lessons to be received nor guarantees to be given to anyone. Let us therefore come to the heart of the matter: Article 31 of the draft finance law, devoted to the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. The French contribution is part of a very special context: the global pandemic; Brexit; the trade war between China and the United States of America; the awakening of strong, cruel regional tensions in the east of the Mediterranean; the sound of dangerous boots that threaten two European Union states, Greece and Cyprus; Hard and bloody wars a few hours from the European capitals; aggravation of the endogenous and exogenous Islamist terrorist threat, which destabilizes entire countries of the African continent. In this context, we must face up to our responsibilities as we discuss the amount of the French contribution. This, I repeat, is, in turn, EUR 26.9 billion this year, a very significant increase of some 25%, compared to the previous year. For example, EUR 26.9 billion is budgeted under Article 31. This unprecedented increase is due to a number of factors: the increase in the level of payment appropriations between the EU's draft budgets for 2020 and for 2021; Brexit; The change in the rules for calculating national contributions, according to the conclusions of the political agreement of 21 July 2020, with the famous discounts being increased for some countries, several colleagues mentioned this; the consequences of the economic crisis and the crisis of the covid-19 on the EU's traditional own resources. This amount makes France one of the main net contributors to the European budget: last year, in 2019, we were already the third net contributor in volume, behind Germany and the United Kingdom; We now move on to second place. Let us add that the net balance – that is, the difference between what we pay and what we receive from the European Union – stands at -7 billion euros per year on average for the period 2014-2019. This figure is frequently waved and used politically to serve often contradictory arguments, not always in good faith. Yet it is an undeniable fact that our compatriots must know. The French contribution is also part of the financial year of the next multiannual financial framework, which will cover the period 2021-2027. Long negotiated, the latter is the result of a compromise reached at the European Council on 10 June 2020, which was said to be around EUR 1074 billion. The multi-annual financial framework for the period 2021-2000 is linked to the European Recovery Plan Next Generation EU, amounting to EUR 750 billion, which has also been said to consist of EUR 390 billion distributed directly in the form of grants to Member States and EUR 360 billion in loans repayable by beneficiary countries. The two subjects are intimately intertwined; In fact, they have been during the negotiations, as the finalisation of the European Recovery Plan has given rise to important concessions for the next multiannual financial framework. These concessions are reflected in the substantial decline in the appropriations for European policies which we consider to be of major importance: the common agricultural policy, the European space policy, Erasmus and the ecological transition, to name but a few of the most important ones in our view. Of course, these reductions will not be felt immediately in the period beginning between 2021 and 2027, since the European Recovery Plan,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u82	Who's not!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u83	... together with national stimulus plans, will be deployed in a large part of the sectors in question. However, the risk is real for the next multi-annual financial framework, the one that will take over after 2027, since the amounts of the negotiated budgets will start at a lower level, even though repayment of the loan will begin in 2027 and run until 2058. In order to benefit from Next Generation EU funds, as Mrs Lagarde pointed out in a recent interview with the newspaper Le Monde, Member States will have to submit their national recovery plans to the European Commission as soon as possible, so that they can be reviewed and validated. As legislators, we will have to come back to these matters. Thus, the National Assembly, like the Senate and the national parliaments of the other Member States – and even, in some Member States, regional parliaments – will have to vote both on the derogation from the Treaty, which will allow the Commission to borrow from markets, and on its own resources. We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss these issues again, in particular the European Recovery Plan. At this point, we already know that the plan will have to include strong commitments. Thus, national stimulus plans will have to meet a number of criteria: 37% of expenditure will have to be allocated to European environmental objectives – including carbon neutrality by 2050 – and 20% will have to be allocated to digitising the economy. I would point out that in the European Parliament, the French delegation of the PPE Group had abstained on the Larrouturou report on the guideline of the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027, because it contained paragraphs that did not suit it. The Republicans, whether they are members of the National Assembly or the European Parliament, are particularly vigilant about issues related to the enlargement of the European Union and to relations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u85	I take this opportunity to reiterate firmly and solemnly that we must put an end to the hypocrisy of prolonging, always and again, an extremely long, extremely laborious negotiation process, in many painful respects, with a view to the hypothetical accession of Turkey, one day,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u87	... on the understanding that we pay much too high pre-accession credits each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u88	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u89	We are also concerned about the issue of own resources, my colleague Gilles Carrez, who has already spoken at length: we do not want future European borrowing to weigh on future generations. In this regard, we must make a strong commitment to future generations. I will not go back to the tax on financial transactions or the plastic tax – which, I understand, is not a tax. We will be extremely vigilant about their precise and practical implementation. In all cases, new own resources will have to be put in place within a reasonable time and accompanied by a reduction in the tax burden on our citizens. That must be our course of action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u90	We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That's right. We do not question the principle of the European recovery plan, but we must recognise that from 2027 onwards, it is the total unknown: there is no visibility on own resources, and the repayment schedule is extremely uncertain. For all these reasons, Members of the Republican Group will abstain from Article 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u92	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u93	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to express our condolences to the family and relatives of Mr Samuel Paty, as I would like to express our deep gratitude to all the teachers in France, who are inculcating our children with the values and fundamental freedoms of the Republic, so that they may become free and fulfilling citizens. I would also like to pay tribute to the law enforcement personnel who have responded and who work every day to protect us from terrorists. Despite the fear that has come before us, we must of course continue our work. As every year, it is up to the French Parliament to debate the levy on State revenue for the benefit of the European Union budget. In the midst of a health and economic crisis, national, European and global, this debate is even more important than in other years. Article 31 of the draft finance law for 2021 estimates the levy at 26.9 billion euros, an increase of 5.4 billion compared to the initial finance law for 2020. We all know the causes of this increase: a Brexit that no longer ends, an economic crisis of which we barely grasp the scale, and finally the agreement reached by the European Council from 17 to 21 July on the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 and its implications for the recovery plan. In the long term, the evolution of the French contribution to the European budget is closely linked to the reflection on the European Union's own resources, made indispensable by the need to repay the recovery plan. The Union's unprecedented financial solidarity effort towards this recovery plan, of which France is the third beneficiary, offers us a historic opportunity to go beyond the reasoning in terms of net contribution. We will obviously need to consider a thorough review of the financing of the Union's budget. The high-level debates that fed into the last European Council on 15 and 16 October should allow us to deepen the subject. In the meantime, the members of the Group of the European People's Party are convinced that it is up to us to confront our compatriots with the reality of what the European Union brings to their daily lives. Unfortunately, this contribution is too often ignored or, worse, brocarded. The Union is at a turning point: as a Brexit without agreement becomes more and more likely and the health crisis does not seem to stop, we have more than ever the responsibility to recall the importance of the Union in our lives. Jacques Lacan said, "The real is when you hit each other. We must show what Europe is doing for us in our territories. In the electoral district of Agnes Firmin Le Bodo, the European Union participated in the financing of the tramway of Le Havre and contributed for 25 million euros, out of 125 million, to that of the chatière of the port of Le Havre, primary port equipment, much expected, in order to improve river access of Port 2000.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u94	You could have quoted me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u95	Not far from there, in Brest, in the constituency of my colleague Jean-Charles Larsonneur, the tramway, the urban cable car, the event hall of Océanopolis, the international city Nelson-Mandela or the European University Institute of the Sea of the University of Western Brittany, represent no less than 60 million euros of European funding granted in ten years to the capital of Finistère.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u96	It's our money coming back! Let's be serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u97	To the north, at my colleague Paul Christophe, the European Union participated in the LIFE + project, which aims to restore nature in the coastal dunes between Dunkirk and Belgium, for a period of six years, through the acquisition of dune plots and environmental education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u98	But it's French money, at last! It's not European money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u99	Still in the North, at my colleague Vincent Ledoux, the city of Tourcoing...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u100	Here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u101	... obtained European grants for the first phase of the work of the branch of the Institute of the Arab World, but also for the restructuring of the heart of the city, through the project of the quadrilateral of the swimming pools. Beyond our borders, in the ninth constituency of French people established outside France, that of my colleague M'jid El Guerrab, the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Africa is funding €5 million for the PROTEJEM regional initiative – the protection of children and young migrants – which aims to provide assistance to 29,700 young people under the age of 25 who are in a situation of mobility in Côte d'Ivoire, Gambia, Guinea and Senegal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u102	Do you think you're having a cantonal meeting? It's the National Assembly here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u103	But let her talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u104	In my region, the Greater East, specifically in the constituency of my colleague Aina Kuric, the University of Reims Champagne-Ardenne has benefited from nearly 100,000 euros for the equipment of a histological blade scanner of the technical tray in cellular and tissue imaging, and 2.6 million euros for the installation of the Romeo supercomputer, capable of performing 1 billion operations per second. Finally, in my home in Châlons-en-Champagne, among other examples, the thermal rehabilitation of 109 dwellings dating from the 1970s was made possible thanks to the assistance of the ERDF, the European Regional Development Fund. If the time allocated to us allowed me to do so, I would be able to draw up the list of projects co-financed by the various European programmes to an infinity. Once again, at a time when environmental, health, economic, social and diplomatic issues are all challenges, both within the Union and at its doorstep, it is up to us, as politicians, to remember what we owe to Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u105	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u106	In total, as part of the recovery plan, France is expected to benefit from around €45.8 billion, of which about €40 billion is under the RIF – the Facility for Recovery and Resilience – which would make our country the third beneficiary of the recovery plan, after Italy and Spain. These European appropriations will be paid between 2021 and 2026 as the targets set out in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan are met. However, a blaspheme about the European budget: the decline in the appropriations for certain programmes seems to us to be of paramount importance. Among them, Horizon Europe's research framework programme is losing 2.6 billion euros, although the recovery plan provides 5 billion euros. Similarly, the investment support programme InvestEU loses EUR 4.7 billion, despite a contribution of EUR 5.6 billion. The space programme will lose EUR 1 billion. The appropriations of the European Defence Fund are reduced by EUR 4.4 billion. The Erasmus + programme loses €5.2 billion. We believe that the future of the European Union cannot be built at the expense of these programmes, emblematic for some, with a strategic vision for others. France was also deeply concerned about the reduction in the CAP budget envisaged by the European Commission in 2018. In the European Council proposal, this budget increases by EUR 19.6 billion: 4.3 billion for the first pillar and 15.3 billion for the second. The appropriations of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund are increasing by €0.5 billion. Cohesion policy benefits from an additional €47.1 billion, mainly from the recovery plan. We are aware that the timetable is very tight: to borrow on the markets and implement this plan as early as January 2021, the European Council's decision on the Union's own resources must be amended. The German Presidency of the Council hopes to reach an agreement with the European Parliament by the end of the month, which would allow the 27 national parliaments time to authorise ratification of the decision by 31 December 2020. However, this cannot be done without a strengthening of the rule of law, while the Commission's first report on the situation in the European Union, presented on 30 September, paints a disturbing picture of the state of democracy in some of its Member States. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the face of all these challenges, the Action Together Group will of course vote in favour of section 31 of the finance bill for 2021. More than ever, with our European partners, we must make our own the words of General de Gaulle of 1965, during his interview with Michel Droit on France's foreign and European policy: "These are the countries that must be put together, and these are the countries that must be gradually accustomed to living together and to acting together".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u107	He'd better tell Jean Lecanuet about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u108	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u109	This year is exceptional in many respects, especially for our relationship with Europe – the subject of our discussion this afternoon – which, in the state budget, translates into 16 to 22 billion euros a year from revenue. By 2021, as has been said, the amount of the levy will be EUR 26.8 billion: our largest contribution to the European budget since the creation of the Union. In this way, we will have to contribute €5.4 billion more than the amount we had passed in the finance bill for 2020. Of these 5.4 billion, 2 billion comes from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, which, together with Germany, France and Italy, was one of the four largest net contributors; EUR 1.6 billion is linked to an increase in Europe's spending; 700 million finally correspond to the discounts that the President of the Republic and the German Chancellor had to accept in order for the so-called "frugal" countries to agree to the recovery plan. We can admit it between ourselves: these 700 million are not glorious, far from it. In this Chamber, some, on the far right, others, more to the left, will be tempted to take the pretext of these increases in order to castigate Europe again,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u110	And they'll be right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u111	...or even ask that we withdraw.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u113	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u114	Those who will engage in this game are part of a short-sighted logic, based on a truncated accounting and budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u115	What if you let the others deliver their own speeches, instead of doing it in their place?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u116	In other words, reducing our economic relationship with Europe to this revenue levy is, in my opinion, political bad faith, but also accounting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u118	Let me make a small calculation in front of you: if we were not in the European Union,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u119	That's anticipation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u120	Mr Lecoq, listen to my calculation, if only to contest it afterwards! If we were not in the Union, we would certainly not have to pay more than EUR 26 billion. But we would not be part of the euro area, which, although Europe's defenders say, is our only guarantee when it comes to financing our low-cost debt. The interest rate on ten-year government loans is -0.3%; In other words, France earns money by debt, which is somewhat contrary to the laws of the economy. Given the inadequacy of our public finances, even before the health crisis, if we did not have the guarantee of the European Central Bank to refinance our debt, our creditors would certainly apply a rate close to 1%, at the bottom. In order to convince us, it is enough to look at what is happening for countries that are not part of the euro area. In concrete terms, this means that instead of EUR 42 billion in annual interest, we would pay between EUR 60 billion and EUR 70 billion, or EUR 20 billion to EUR 30 billion more than we would have to pay to finance our public debt. [[Mr. Alexandre Holroyd applauds]] Anyone who is in good faith realizes that with Europe, we are budgetaryly winners. It is she and she alone who assures us of cheap financing conditions. It is she, and she alone, who allows us to save between 20 billion and 30 billion a year on the cost of our debt, allowing this money to be spent on other priorities in the state budget. It is she, and she alone, who guarantees an inexpensive debt to a country like ours, which is not the most virtuous in the management of its public finances. All those who support you are in bad faith; Of course, they have the right to think that leaving the Union would be a good thing for France, but I advise them to avoid using the budget argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u121	We will try to convince you with our arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u122	Dear colleague, let Mrs Rabault speak. Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u123	She's using prejudice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u124	But recognizing that the European Union offers us a real guarantee of refinancing does not mean that we must give it a blank. Mr Secretary of State, I am speaking to you, since you are responsible: blackmail at the expense of the so-called "frugal" countries, which represent only 10% of the European population, is no longer acceptable. This suggests to our fellow citizens that there would be pass-rights, and above all that the idea of the weakness of some governments flourishes. I think we need to put an end to it. To recognize that the European Union offers us a real guarantee of refinancing does not mean that it is synonymous with European sovereignty. To be sovereign is to refuse to suffer what actors outside our borders want to impose on us. When digital giants do not pay taxes in Europe while they make most of their profits on European territory, they impose a deep cut on our sovereignty. This is unacceptable. This puts us at risk of anchoring in a sustainable way the idea of the weakness of the European Union, even though our continent is the second richest in the world. Mr. Secretary of State, it is up to you today to pledge. However, in this respect, we are at a standstill. Discussions to create a tax on digital giants have failed at OECD level – the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – and there is no substitute solution at European level to date. At the same time, the EUR 13 billion fine imposed on Apple by the European Commissioner for Competition was annulled by the European Court of Justice. How do you want our citizens to be there if the European Union is thus in a position of weakness vis-à-vis American multinationals? It turns out that they are all American. You have to punch your fist on the table!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u125	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u126	To be sovereign is also to have permanent and autonomous financing. However, only 30% of the EU's resources come from customs duties and a fraction of VAT paid by the Member States. This small proportion therefore implies that the Member States, together with their national budgets, provide the bulk of European funding. Each time, it leads the Heads of State and Government to bargains that will never end – including those related to the discount, which I mentioned earlier. To gain sovereignty, Europe must translate this demand through resources: a carbon tax at its borders to protect European productions; a tax on financial transactions to protect its financial system. However, this approach is still too timid at this stage. The Heads of State and Government committed themselves to this at the European Council on 21 July, following the agreement reached on the European Recovery Plan. But here too, we need wages, and we need them to arrive faster. To be sovereign is to respect the rule of law, the foundation of what we are as a French nation and also as a member of the European Union. Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union is very clear: "The Union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. To fail to respect these foundations is to place oneself implicitly outside the European Union. Therefore, Europe will only be strong if it upholds its own foundations: it cannot be a cash drawer where it is used as it pleases. Therefore, if Europe puts more money on the table, particularly through the rescue plan, it is also entitled to demand genuine conditionality linked to respect for the rule of law. The compromise adopted at the European Council on 21 July is clearly in step with previous proposals. It clearly questions the effectiveness of the use of such a mechanism, now requiring that sanctions be adopted by a qualified majority. In the earlier version proposed by the European Commission, it was up to the Member States covered by this procedure to find a qualified majority to prevent sanctions from applying to themselves. Finally, to be sovereign is to set a course. But Europe has locked itself in a technocratic language that only Brussels technicians now understand. How do you want to make people dream or win some kind of support by mentioning only the €750 billion of the recovery plan? This plan is an important step, essential for the survival of our economies, but we must say what we do with it! Do we want a European pharmaceutical industry, a high-speed and low-carbon transport network, a financing system for European SMEs to prevent them from being bought by US multinationals and pension funds? It must be said how this plan enables us to strengthen our European sovereignty! I am one of those who believe that creativity with Germans, Spaniards, Italians and Belgians carries added value and wealth for France and Europe. Above all, I believe that it is indispensable in order to face the harsh global competition, which does not give us any gifts. But we cannot take a magical figure of 750 billion euros as the balance of everything. I would like you, Mr Secretary of State, to speak to us about concrete projects, because it is these projects, and only them – in the fields of health, transport, energy – that will credify our European sovereignty. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To return to the subject of this meeting, we will vote in favour of the article on the revenue levy in favour of the European Union. We will vote in favour, because we are convinced of the need for strong European sovereignty, but this vote cannot be regarded as a given question as to what we want in terms of European sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u127	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u128	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u129	What a strange debate that the one who brings us together around article 31. This article is Europe by the very small end of the lorgnette, a door-to-door intertwining that gives us a glimpse of our entire continent, its realities, its hopes, its inadequacies and its tribulations. We must proceed to a vote, a very small vote, a vote on a single figure, preceded by a statement which is also very small and which of course does not say much – I am not talking about your speech, Mr Secretary of State, but of course the document on which we are voting – and which cannot be amended or even challenged without opening a major European crisis. It is through this vote that Parliament has its annual meeting with the construction of Europe. [[Smile]] By voting in favour of Article 31 – I eliminate all suspense – the Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats intends to say that in these difficult and even tragic moments, it supports more than ever, in hope as in trial, the construction of Europe. He knows that it is only through his participation in a stronger, more active and more political European Union that our country will have a real future and that the French will remain free and respected in the world of tomorrow. Our vote is therefore a vote of conviction. It is also a vote of hope: we are aware of an exceptional moment, a profound change of perspective and ambition on the part of the Member States of the Union. It is experiencing a real qualitative and quantitative revolution, which is expressed in four major changes. The first is the massive increase in its appropriations: while the governments did not end up grappling with the impassableness of the 1% of GDP threshold for the MFF, on 21 July the European Council decided to add to a colossal MFF an exceptional plan, equivalent to three quarters of its amount. The second change is due to the way in which we intervene, as the Commission resolves for the first time to borrow on behalf of all the sums it considers necessary for our common future. The third is the allocation of direct grants to the Member States, a guarantee of the draft of a common European budget, and not just loans, by definition repayable. Finally, the fourth change lies in the late but necessary commitment of an authentic Copernician revolution which obliges Europeans, to speak as Saint-Exupéry, to stop looking in the eye to "look together in the same direction". The multi-annual financial framework, whose budget 2021 is the inaugural act, finally reflects, but too little, the emergence of new priorities – digital, space, defence, defence, climate – brought about by the upheaval of prospects and the challenges that we urgently need to face. In this regard, we can only be saddened by the sluggish cuts that have been made to these different categories of appropriations in order to obtain the agreement of the Member States with the recovery plan. We do not blame you, Secretary of State; It was the price to pay but it was a sin against the future, and it is a veritable wart on the face and the historic decision of July 21. Let us recognize more generally that, despite this embellishment of the common will, the political, ideological and institutional context is, to say the least, worrying and hardly facilitating the march forward. Politically, or rather geopolitically, there is the aberration of Brexit. I am not one of those who think that Brexit will be an absolute disaster for the United Kingdom, without return. I'm just saying that this is the very type of negative-sum decision: a decision that costs everyone – starting with the UK – and that doesn't bring anything back to anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u130	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u131	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem, Actir ens and FI groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Oscar Wilde said of the marriage that it had the effect of forcing spouses to "manage together problems that they would not have had separately." Well, Brexit is exactly the opposite: it is a divorce that forces us to deal separately with problems that we would not have had together!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u132	Bravo for the formula!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u133	Concretely, and in any case, Brexit weighs a high level on the increase in our SRP and on our accounts. Frankly, we would have done well! At the ideological level, we see the challenge of the values of freedom, the protection of persons and respect for the state law, as well as the guarantees of representative democracy, by a number of Member States. This is serious, because the recognition of these values is the foundation of our union. The European Parliament seems to have taken the lead in making its agreement conditional on the MFF, and indirectly on the recovery plan, on substantial concessions from the countries concerned. We can only warn him: in a Union where so many things are still decided unanimously, the tactical advantage always belongs to the one who blocks compared to the one who wants to move forward. Our colleagues in the European Parliament must avoid seeing the baby of the recovery plan swept away with the water from the conditionality bath. In politics, the devil nests not only in details, but also in good intentions. What makes the current fiscal years – the annual budget, the MFF, the European recovery plan – difficult and even frustrating, however, is the context of a decision-making system that has become, over time, as aberrant functionally as it is democratically. I am not among those who believe that the European Union's decision-making system is characterised by a real democratic deficit; I don't think so, except...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u134	Only ten minutes a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u135	...on the budgetary and fiscal question, because the current budgetary system is simply monstrous democratically and functionally. It is based on the swindling of parliamentary power and on the organized paralysis of the decision-making system. The national parliamentary power has not really receded, for a simple reason: it never existed. For the rest, the decision on the system of own resources does not actually give us any power, even if we vote on it. For the rest, our contribution to the Union's revenue does not exist! What we are doing here, without the power to amend or even reject, is consenting to a decision that is not ours. It's not new; We do not blame the Government, of course, but we say that, fundamentally, this is not satisfactory. As for the powers of the European Parliament, they have declined enormously over the last 20 years: they are as non-existent on revenue as ours. It is true, as it has always been so. The mechanism gives governments, and practically alone, the power to decide unanimously, and therefore not to decide, on the institution and amount of the Union's resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u136	Who decides then?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u137	[[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] The perverse effects of this unanimous and anti-parliamentary mechanism, we see them every day. First, the mechanism paralyzes decision-making, offering a bonus to those who want nothing compared to those who want to move forward. Deuzio, he authorises all blackmails, such as those currently weighing on our debates, exercised by Poland or the Netherlands. Third, as a result of the "intergovernmentalisation" of decisions, revenues have changed in nature: own resources have become national contributions, mainly the GNI levy, leading to behaviour of renationalisation of expenditure. That explains why we have all the world's difficulties in establishing own resources, independent of States, massive and equitable, in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u138	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u139	It is not normal that the idea of a company tax, whose base and rates would be harmonised, and which should be the logical extension of the internal market, still appears to be out of reach. It is therefore all the more important to welcome the willingness of France and that of the German Presidency, as well as of many of our partners and of the European Parliament, to relaunch the major project of own resources, in particular through the carbon tax at borders and the tax on financial transactions. In this connection, I would like to know whether the Government adopts the idea proposed by the rapporteur-general of the European budget, our colleague Pierre Larrouturou, to allow the allocation of the products raised in the framework of enhanced cooperation on financial transactions to repay, at the appropriate time, their share of the loans subscribed by the Union in the framework of the recovery plan. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] As for expenditure, the decline in parliamentary control over the past 20 years is clear. Once again, the European Parliament had the last word on a small half of the expenditure, which allowed it to negotiate with the European Council on the whole and within precise margins. This system has come to an end: the budgetary procedure is reduced to a negotiation worthy of that between the councillors of the king of Spain described by Victor Hugo in Ruy Blas, and it is the opposite of any budgetary procedure worthy of that name. No, Mr Secretary of State, we will not be able to build the Europe that we carry and that you carry, together with the President of the Republic and the vast majority of this assembly – Mrs Rabault has reminded us right now – the hope and ambition, if you do not quickly change a budgetary system that is an offence to the democratic principles that we are calling for. You have thought wide, you have aimed high, you have obtained impressive results but you will not be able to transform the trial if you do not change the rules of the game. We've gone too far not to go any further!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u140	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u141	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u142	2020 will have been a pivotal year for the European Union. The unprecedented crisis that we are going through has shown us how interdependent our countries have become and how much our citizens are now living in an integrated, borderless Europe. Yet, in this continent which tends to become one, the risky and uncoordinated responses, in the early hours of the health crisis, have shown the weakness of political Europe, which we have long been calling for. Above all, European leaders have missed the opportunity, especially when our Italian neighbours called for help, to prove that European solidarity could be effective, even in the harshest situations. If the sequence of events showed a much better image, this first impression will remain for a long time. Jean Monnet said: "We do not co-align states, we unite men. When we see the bitterness of the negotiations which took place in Brussels in July and the discounts obtained by some countries, it is thought that the road to truly unite us together is still a long way to go. This European institutional cacophony did not meet the challenges of the crisis. If we want an effective and fair Europe, the simplification and reactivity of the decision-making process, which will be achieved by abandoning unanimity in many areas, is the top priority that must be addressed. But not everything is black in the Europe of the 2020s. Mr Secretary of State, you have long been the close collaborator of the President of the Republic on European issues and, as such, you have been at the heart of the negotiations on the European Recovery Plan. Our group welcomed the initiative launched by President Macron and Chancellor Merkel; I would like to take this opportunity to welcome this time the continental recovery plan decided in July. We know that France's 40 billion euros are an essential part of the national recovery plan, because it is Europe that finances it at 40%, let us say it! 2020 will have been a special year for Europe, as it also marks the final moments with our British comrades. The future will tell us whether we should regret it, but we must be intransigent in the negotiations, if only for example. We cannot leave Europe and get butter and butter money. We can't ask for full access to our market and we can't afford to buy out our own forbidden aid companies. We cannot ask for access to our ports to catch our fish while closing our waters to our fishermen. In our view, therefore, it is better to have no agreement than a "horse of Troy" agreement, which would destroy the entire building. I do not know how the negotiations with the British will conclude, but we ask that a debate on Brexit be held in the Chamber before the end of the year. In any event, the first consequences of this departure are felt for our country through the French contribution to the budget of the European Union, which increases by some EUR 5 billion compared to last year. It's a big deal. The new budget, which will cover the period 2021-2027, promises to be highly strategic in many ways, with climate, digital and geopolitical issues. The European Union must take advantage of the coming period to open its eyes, learn to protect itself, but above all learn to rebuild its independence and become a real power. This power Europe should be a union that understands the need to become sovereign in the food, health, energy and digital fields. But for that, we need to regulate globalization. The IDU and independent group would like to welcome the first concrete progress of a future tax on digital services, known as the GAFA tax, at the level of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the one conceived by the Government at the national level with no meaning. They are the first step in the fight against unfair competition from these giants to our European companies. However, we call for vigilance to ensure that such a tax does not affect companies that pay to benefit from the services of these digital platforms. Their fair taxation must also be accompanied by respect for our competition law, which, unfortunately, is not always the case. We must therefore encourage the emergence of new European actors capable of respecting our rules, our finances and our private lives. This last point is vital, do not doubt it, because our data are the black gold of today. Their use will become one of the major issues of the next decade. The creation of a right of ownership of the data is therefore indispensable. One question, however, is that, Mr Secretary of State, we do not agree with the general setback on maintaining the CAP budget for a simple reason: this budget is not really sustained. Indeed, 380 billion in 2028 should logically have less value than 380 billion in 2020! It is called inflation, and playing on this notion to deceive our farmers does not seem right to us. We would like a budget based on the assumption of inflation of between 1% and 2%, and if it did not exist in the coming years, this increase would speed up the environmental transition of our agriculture. Finally, I come to the question of own resources. We have been advocating for many years for the introduction of a carbon tax at the borders and a tax on financial transactions at the continental level. The plastic tax that Brussels should soon introduce is a good thing, even if, it must be admitted, it will be very expensive for France and that, for the sake of our planet, we hope that it will disappear as soon as possible. Own resources are vital for the future of our Union. Indeed, we cannot forever justify an increase in our contribution to the continental budget. But that's not all: basing the repayment of the European loan on the establishment of these new resources is a huge risk. Indeed, if we fail to set them up, France will have to pay up to €2.5 billion a year to cover its debt. Be aware that Europe's enemies are waiting for this and that we cannot give them satisfaction. Simone Veil said: "Europe is the great design of the 21st century. Our group naturally fits in with its words: Europe is our future, and this future is getting ready now. So let's find the points that unite us, build the European power we need, and know how to find the model of life we want to move forward together. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups]] Our group will support the proposal for a French annual contribution to the European budget, hoping that this money invested in the Union will actually bring much more to our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u143	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u144	The debate on the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union is always a bit special, since it is usually the only one of the year in which we have ten minutes to discuss the Union's policy, which has so much impact on our daily lives. And this year is even more important than the others, for several reasons. Firstly, the European Union and the United Kingdom are definitively separated. Secondly, a new multi-annual financial framework will begin next year and run until 2027. Thirdly, the preparation of the budget cycle for the years 2021 to 2027 was in full explosion of the covid-19 in Europe, with its social and economic repercussions. The multi-annual framework has therefore been upset – even before it was implemented – by a recovery plan, and it is still not precisely set since there is currently a tragedy between the European Parliament, which calls for an increase of some 15 budgets, and the Council, which absolutely refuses this request. We are therefore debating today the 26.8 billion euros that the European Union is taking from France to operate, even though we do not know how these sums will be spent. No less than 5.4 billion more requests from France compared to last year, 25% more, while we do not know the outcome of the negotiations! It's not serious. We do not even know the breakdown of our contribution to the European Union, since a Brexit without agreement could upset the situation in France, economically and socially. Sectors would be suffering a great deal, and they would have to be supported. While the British Prime Minister is constantly shaking the spectre of a no deal, an exit without agreement, millions of people are waiting for a frank and definitive response. The road and maritime transport sector with England is likely to be severely penalized. The fisheries sector is, of course, one of the first to be involved in these negotiations which do not end and whose outcome is completely unknown. Trans-shipping is also significantly reduced as a result of the double health and border crisis with the United Kingdom. Brexit is also the fate of the Northern and Southern Irish, which is still at the centre of attention. Beyond Brexit, there is uncertainty about the European Union's recovery plan and the budget for the years 2021 to 2027. The mistake – which seems to be admitted to Brussels – is to link the two: the so-called frugal countries – the radins, as Jean-Louis Bourlanges said – have tried to create a zero-sum game, in other words, the more ambitious the recovery plan will be, the more the budget 2021-2027 will be limited. We are therefore – as always in the European Union – putting money ahead of people, for the pleasure of countries that are using themselves lightly in the European Union's budget, demanding discounts on their participation – EUR 7.6 billion a year. For them, we are once again sacrificing economic sectors, public services, jobs and, of course, our planet. The rebates granted to frugal countries will therefore increase by EUR 7.6 billion per year. In detail, there are 3.7 billion rebates for Germany, 1.9 billion for the Netherlands, 1.1 billion for Sweden, 565 million for Austria and 377 million for Denmark. Divided between each member of the European Union, these discounts will still cost the French close to 700 million euros per year. If we wanted to illustrate things, we could say that every day France will give Germany EUR 1 million. Every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u145	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u146	With all the negotiations under way, one wonders why the French government has not yet put on the table the advance of the European TTF!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u147	Good! I feel less lonely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u148	We have been promised a tax on this scale for years and, as we saw again last Friday at a night session on this subject, the negotiation of this tax on European financial transactions serves as a pretext for never changing the tax on financial transactions at national level. Bruno Le Maire, who, for the last three years, has been constantly climbing up the niche to tell us that we are close to an agreement on the European TTF and that it is therefore urgent to do nothing at national level, would he have forgotten to talk about it in Brussels? The principle is that the tax would be painless for businesses but very profitable and efficient for national budgets. But if we are able to negotiate on discounts of $7.6 billion a year, no one seems able to introduce a tax that would be used to combat hunger in the world, improve global health or preserve our planet and repair the damage it has caused. That is perfectly regrettable. These are the inequalities that exist at European Union level, and that is what disgusts the peoples of this Union, where all is nothing but negotiations and promises that are not fulfilled. In a period of crisis as intense as we know it, variable geometry is not acceptable. How can we applaud a recovery plan, when we know that so much has been sacrificed to achieve it? Despite the good promises it contains, the general rapporteur of the 2021 finance bill and the Government have not stopped refusing our amendments, which were intended to help the economy, on the pretext that Brussels would refuse. As we are experiencing one of the most serious crises in our history, and as Europe makes us believe that its recovery plan will solve all the problems of the world, we realize that France does not have the autonomy necessary to create the conditions for safeguarding its economy. Unless Brussels is the right excuse used by the majority to allow this economic liberalism that ravages peoples and destroys our planet... This is proof of this: France's attempt to upgrade the common agricultural policy, which, initially, in the new version of the budget for the years 2021 to 2027, was amputated. Although the tragedy seems less serious than expected, it remains that France had to fight to ensure that, overnight, Brussels did not turn its back on agriculture. Why? Because by signing free trade agreements that destroy customs duties and promote exports and imports of quotas for agricultural products, the Brussels authorities have come to consider farmers in Europe to be a wave of folklore! And the European Union has gone so far as to abolish the so-called POSEI, the EUR 280 million that finance agriculture and agri-food in the outermost regions, including our overseas departments and territories. Again, economic liberalism has chosen its new course: to create an international division of labour by specializing in national economies thanks to the low cost of international transport. For the countries of MERCOSUR, it is soya and oxen; for Australia, cow's milk and sheep; for Vietnam, in-market manufactured goods; for Europe, German machine tools. In addition to promoting a world that we reject with all our strength, these free trade agreements have the effect of abolishing customs duties that the European Union recovers. However, as the Communist MEPs repeat every year, customs duties are the only own resources of the European Union: when a euro of customs duties is abolished, Brussels turns to the Member States and asks them to compensate for it in order to maintain the budget committed. When we see the huge decrease in the share of own resources in the European Union's budget, there is cause for concern. In 30 years, the share of customs duties feeding it has increased from 28 % to 16 %, and it is obviously the Member States – our taxes – that have compensated. If the share of the Member States has increased, it is not for the best, because if we liberalise the movement of goods, human beings do not suffer the same fate. Together with the FRONTEX agency – the European Border and Coast Guard Agency – the European Union is hindering all the means of human beings who are trying to escape the misery and wars – which we have helped to create – in order to enter European territory. Thus, the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union remains, as in previous years, an unfair contribution towards countries which obtain a discount. And what's it for? It helps the Union to establish rules that limit some of our actions at national level, validate free trade agreements and be a dead weight in global diplomacy. While we could make it a plural force, carrying democratic values, it turns into an impassable fortress to prevent people fleeing poverty and wars from going to our homes. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] That's what we're offered. Communist Members of Parliament cannot, of course, validate this project; We're proposing something else. We are putting people before money, and we hope that a European Union of peoples and nations will finally come into being, led by and for them, not by and for finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u149	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u150	I come to this rostrum a little bitter, given what it is to decide by this section of the finance bill. The Europe we are talking about was already under the shock of Brexit. I don't say anything about the content; I agree with the humour of my colleague Bourlanges on the subject, and I understand the spirit of it. No one can escape the consequences of this event on the Old Continent, especially on the question of borders, about which I believe that one is often too casual. This question again arises in Ireland – between Northern Ireland and Southern Ireland – but everyone knows that if, as they predict and announce, the Scots do not give up their independence project, a similar problem will come to the horizon, given the training force that always creates this kind of situation. It is a first factor of general tension, and it is expressed in the budget. The second is obviously related to the crisis of the covid-19 and its consequences. The economic gap has deepened between the nations, in particular between Germany and the countries that follow it in the ranking of the economic powers, that is France, in second place, Italy, in third, and Spain, in fourth, so much so that, as the Minister said in committee, The Mayor himself, the risk is great that such a shift will cause the euro zone to break up, without any Eurosceptic or Eurocritical being there for anything, but simply because of the economic dynamics at work. It is in this context that the debate on our decision to participate in the European budget takes place. We reach a record payment: 26.8 billion euros. Never have we given so much, and never have we received so little. I am quite surprised that one of our colleagues – very estimated – lists the projects that, it seems, we owe to European funding. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, No projects are due to European funding; All were committed thanks to France's finances. Why? Because France is a net contributor; we give more than we receive. Last year, we gave 9 billion more than we received; This year, we are going to pay another $5 billion. So admit that apart from any contradiction between us on the European issue, such mismatches deserve debate and reflection. We would do it for any other subject, but it seems that here, struck by some kind of religiousness in this matter, we cannot say anything, except to rejoice again and ever more. €5 billion more in a year. Since 2017, the French contribution requirement has increased by 54%. Discounts are one of the explanations of the level of our contribution. The discount is only the signal of France's political and geopolitical weakness in its discussions with its partners. At first, for reasons beyond our control, we had decided to pay for the others the rebate that had been granted to the English. Everyone agreed that it was absurd, and the President of the Republic himself announced in February 2020 that he wanted to put an end to the discount, which he described as "archaic, unjust and illegible". In order for all who listen to us to understand well, this is the share that France pays in place of others, the share that the others should pay but that the French accept to take over, in order to contribute to the universal generosity of the whole European.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u151	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u152	That's absurd. And this year, can we be told, with a government voice, why have we agreed to keep Germany's rebate at EUR 3.6 billion a year? Why did we accept this, when we no longer want an "archaic, unjust and illegible" system, as I was saying right now? This gap will help to increase the economic gap between France and Germany. I say this not only from the point of view of the French interest, but also from the point of view of the European interest. No one has any interest in the widening of the gap between French and Germans. That would be the end of everything that was built. For my part, I am not a supporter of chaos. If I am, with my Communist comrades and some others, critical – very critical! – with regard to the Europe of these treaties, we are not in favour of the brothel, forgiving, of the chaos that would arise if, suddenly, we let go while abandoning ourselves to the logic of the confrontation between the countries. We are in favour of concord, but it still needs to be done in conditions that are acceptable to us; This is not the case for France. I mentioned Germany's discount. But why is Austria entitled to see its rebate increase by 49%? For what reason do the Netherlands see an increase of 176 %, Denmark by 190 % and Sweden by 177 %? In short, it is 2.6 billion euros to be found each year, and France alone finances a quarter of all this money. Why? What is this particular treatment worth? Why can't we spread that amount? If I am obliged to speak this way, it is because of the way in which this Europe of the Treaties is built. My colleague Bourlanges is right to say that the European spirit is based on the will of the nations, but also on the will of Europe itself. If it does not have its own resources, then how can it politically assert what is important to it – what is important for its future? It can only do one thing: allocate an effort of solidarity, paid by the money of each nation. But if we just do this, you can see that we are no longer able to make foresight! It was here, from our ranks, that Mrs Loiseau came to say that there was no question of subsidizing States that used subsidies to carry out social dumping against France. However, they all do this, starting with the Netherlands, which, in particular by their tax system towards multinationals, takes the money that should normally go into the caisses of Italy and France, because companies that make up the bulk of their income in these countries are going to contribute elsewhere, without anyone finding anything to say about it! And we are comforted by praises and songs about the love that Europeans are wearing, the Franco-German couple and other romantic allegories quite friendly, but without any relation to the only principle that is valid in politics: reality. The reality is that the French are the turkeys of the farce. And I'm staring at you for deserting the Council in which the President thought it was elegant to ask the Chancellor to represent us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u153	That's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u154	It was the second day. Whatever the reasons, even if we agree on everything, we have to be there all the time! In the current context, the French are first represented by the French, and by their President. Of course, after that, we can say that the recovery plan is not one. You know as well as I do! We will receive EUR 40 billion, but as we contribute in proportion to what we receive, we will contribute up to 17% of the total given. So to get 40 billion, we're going to give 66. If political Europe existed, and if it wanted to exist one day, its own resources would have to be greater than the contributions of the nations, because then it could speak on behalf of Europe, and say what its priorities are. That's not the case. The recovery plan will not provide for it in any way, and no one has said how we are going to finance it. [[Smile on various benches]] You know as well as I do that we have given up to some on the pretext that they were frugal – I don't know who invented this adjective, but figure out that we, the French, are very frugal, that we are even the most frugal and that, being those who pay frugality, we still have rights over the adjective. How have we been able to accept that they do not participate more than they have so far? How can we accept, in the context we know, the idea that there will never be health sovereignty or financial sovereignty to integrate the debts related to the treatment of covid-19 with the rest of Europe's debts, when the ECB should take them into account? Someone here said that the cancellation or freezing of the debt was irresponsible. Let's avoid that kind of adjective. Many thinkers and economists consider this to be one of the ways in which the debt problem can be resolved, which no one will ever be able to pay at the level it has reached. They prefer this solution to the permanent renewal of debt through the financing of each state, at rates that are naturally promised to be high and low, and above all high. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This series of failures brings us to the numbers. How do you welcome a €790 billion recovery plan, including only €390 billion in grants, which is part of Europe's multi-annual financial framework? How do you welcome this, when the Commissioner proposed by the President of the French Republic, Mr Breton, thought it would take 2000 billion? What can you compare between these unfortunate 790 billion – including 390 grants – and the 2800 billion that the ECB has given in the past to private banks to buy debt securities? How can such incoherence hold over time? I don't know. You will be able to say what you want, but to praise such agreements, you are only preparing a detour that will be humiliating for our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u156	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u157	As we all know, the examination of France's contribution to the European budget is a bit of an agreed date. We debate for an hour or two, then the vote takes place; Without suspense, it is always positive. Then the finance bill continues its crazy race. For 2021, all speakers said this figure: the contribution is estimated at 26.8 billion euros, compared to 21.5 in 2020, an increase of 25%. We can go beyond this accounting vision, and tell us that discussing France's share of the European Union can also be used to question our project for Europe and its future, because Europe's project is played largely in the current period, marked by a large number of uncertainties. First of all, there are the uncertainties related to the difficulties concerning the cooperation agreement between France and the United Kingdom, the consequence of Brexit. There are also geopolitical tensions at our doorstep: in Belarus, in the Eastern Mediterranean, or in Nagorno-Karabagh. Mr Secretary of State, in these theatres, contrary to what some say, Europe struggles to speak the language of power. Europe is facing another challenge: its governance, at a time when the health crisis and its economic and social consequences are causing concern. In this crisis, too, Europe is showing the best and worst of its functioning. This year marks the beginning of a new era for the Union, which must reinvent itself in order to draw the consequences of two major crises, Brexit and Covid-19. The best thing was the response of the European Council in July 2020, which seemed to be a political and budgetary turning point for the European Union. It proposes three interrelated pillars: the recovery plan; the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027; the incipient question of own resources. The recovery plan is based on a simple observation: while the entire European Union has been affected by the pandemic, the health, economic and social impacts vary greatly from one Member State to another. The pandemic has hit parts of the continent and some economies more severely because of their structures. The vast majority of the islands have been affected, for their economic dynamism depends on tourist traffic and transport flows, which have been brutally halted. It is necessary, as we have long been calling for, that the European Treaties and texts should finally include a clause of insularity. France can and must defend this idea. A European recovery plan was therefore necessary in order to demonstrate, in a concrete way, the Union's solidarity. Demonstration is being made and the solidarity effort is important, as it stands at €75 billion. Negotiations have been the scene of intense exchanges on the supposed selfishness of some members, while things are more complex. If the countries of the North do not want to have to repay the debts of others under any conditions, this does not prevent them from showing solidarity in other ways, since their net contribution balance per capita is highest. While Brexit and the crisis have increased the risk of fragmentation of the Union, the decision on a joint loan, in addition to providing short-term relief for national public finances, reaffirms the existence of a shared project and a willingness on the part of the States to commit themselves jointly and severally over the long term. Thus, we welcome the maximum grant allocation per Member State, based on population, GDP and unemployment rates between 2015 and 2019. As such, the main beneficiaries of the envelope would be Italy, Spain, France and Poland. Thus, of the €390 billion in transfers planned, almost €40 billion is earmarked for France, which is a major source of funding for the national recovery plan. We are all the more pleased with the plan's aim of reviving the European economy while accelerating green and digital transitions and strengthening resilience and sustainability. These conditions will also be monitored by the European Council. We see here that there is a demand for counterparts from the Member States on a European scale. Why not ask companies in France? However, we regret, like the European Parliament, certain ambiguities on conditionality relating to respect for the rule of law, for the benefit of the Hungarian and Polish governments – they also blocked the ratification of the recovery plan when MEPs expressed the ambition to go further. Europe, given its history and values, must make no compromise on this founding value of the Union. The Brexit and the negotiation of the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 provided a historic opportunity to end the policy of rebates, dear to Mrs Thatcher. What are the beneficiary countries? The Netherlands for EUR 1.9 billion, Austria, Denmark, Sweden, but also Germany for EUR 3.6 billion. I mentioned the best of Europe, we also have a new episode of the worst: these states seized the opportunity of negotiations on the recovery plan to keep their discount, in the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027, despite the offensive led by France. A total of EUR 10 billion more over seven years has been stolen from the Community funds. All this will have a concrete consequence: the increase in the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union. In 2021, this will result in an increase of 700 million euros. How can we position ourselves in relation to Article 31 when we know that these rebates are the responsibility of all other countries, in particular French taxpayers? Does not voting for this article, in part, mean accepting the perpetuation of these practices? Nor should we forget that agreement on the recovery plan has been reached by plan ing the European research budget, the Erasmus programme or innovation. As for the EUR 9 billion EU4Health health programme, it has disappeared as we deplore the lack of European Union resources in the face of the pandemic. While the President of the European Parliament was very pleased with the agreement reached on a recovery plan to deal with the crisis caused by the covid-19, he felt that certain cuts should be revised in the next multiannual budget. This is a tough stumbling block between Parliament and the European Council, which we again demonstrated last week at the meeting of the European Council. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore hopes that the European Parliament will be fully involved in the establishment and implementation of the Recovery Instrument and the Multiannual Framework. We will console ourselves by noting that the amount of the CAP allocated to France has been preserved: 62.4 billion euros, which corresponds to a quasi-stability in current euros. The amount of aid under the second pillar – rural development, ecological transition and the installation of young farmers – amounts to EUR 10 to 11.4 billion, including EUR 900 million under the European Recovery Plan. However, a reform of the CAP must be undertaken in order to take better account of the specificities of certain territories but also to direct production towards short-term circuits. Another overriding question is that of new resources to help repay the European loan. Thus, a new own resource, calculated on non-recycled plastic waste, will be established and applied from 1 January 2021. For France, this plastic contribution is estimated at €70 million. We agree with this measure, which is consistent with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Although this contribution will not really be an own resource but a new transfer from the national budget to the European budget, it remains that a decisive step has been taken: for the first time, the Council agreed on the need to create new resources and gave the Commission a mandate to make proposals in this direction. After the failures of the attempts to tax the profits of the big multinationals of digital where they are realized, when the carbon tax at the borders? We are waiting for the Commission's proposals. The path to power Europe is definitely long. In the meantime, we are about to vote for a new revenue levy. Even if we wish to support the European Parliament in its arm with the Council, we may be tempted not to vote on the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u159	On the other hand, if, despite these shortcomings, we wish to encourage the movement born out of the agreement on a common recovery plan, partly based on a common loan, we will join in this compromise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u160	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u161	This debate represents a kind of ritual between the political parties: some, like the working Republic Group, defend our financial contribution to the European Union; Others believe that France is squandering money in a European project that they denounce. Year after year, the speakers of the latter go up to the rostrum to give us speeches that appear to be very firm and harsh, criticising France's participation in the European budget, and demanding that we pay no more than we receive. And that, in the best case. When these injunctions come from the extreme right of this House, we are used to them. When they come from part of the benches on the left, from the radical left, we are also used to it, while wondering where the sense of solidarity has passed, the founding value of the European Union, to which we might think they are sensitive. This year, the crisis linked to the covid-19 is somewhat rebuffing the maps, highlighting the paradoxes, contradictions and inconsistencies of those who denounce this Europe and do not want it. From the very first moments of the crisis, they began to defend Europe not because it would interfere with our national policies – health, in particular – but because it would not have acted enough to protect us in the crisis and in the face of the virus. These behaviours obviously reflect a form of bad faith, but also a form of indecency when we know the energy they have deployed over the years to undo the European project and limit its skills to the maximum. So the covid-19 is firing the cards, and that's fine. So much the better if those who asked for the end of the European project, or at least its sweetening, have come to demand – with their words, we must agree – that Europe should do more and faster. So much the better if we now expect Europe to act, if we criticize it when it does not or if it is too late. However, nothing forbids us – and a budgetary debate is the right time to do so – to debate whether, in the face of covid-19, Europe has been up to the challenge. We can distinguish two times in European action. The first was that of hesitation, linked to the lack of competence in the field of health and border management, which left a bitter taste for many European citizens, particularly the inhabitants of border basins. Secondly, Europe has been much more up to the stakes, it has been able to express the best of what it can do: cross-border solidarity when German or Luxembourg hospitals have welcomed and cared for our patients; the unprecedented economic response that has made it possible to mobilise massive financial resources. The Franco-German response and the European recovery plan are the best example of this. Let us dwell for a moment on this European recovery plan, which is closely linked to our debate. It is not just a recovery plan, but a reshaping and historic initiative for Europe. It is historic because, by its magnitude, it helps to remove the risk of implosion that this crisis has put on the European Union. We are talking about EUR 750 billion, in addition to EUR 540 billion in loans that Europeans have already released. It is historic by its method of financing: for the first time since its creation, the European Union will issue a common debt. From a financial point of view, this is obviously the most effective solution. From a political point of view, solidarity is put at the heart of European integration: by linking their destiny for decades to come, Europeans send an extremely strong message to the other powers of the planet. Finally, it is historic because it marks the return of the Franco-German couple to the forefront of the European scene. It must be said because it is to the honour of France: this recovery plan – you know better than anyone, Mr. Secretary of State – finds its source in the untiring will of the President of the Republic to bring about a more united, united and sovereign Europe. Other decisions will follow, but the signal is clear: Europeans stand together against the virus, and they will continue to stand together in the years to come. If I dwell a little on this, it is not only to underline its historical character. I also want to denounce some approximations or rather some intoxications that we hear very regularly in the political debate in our country. Some say that this €750 billion loan is a good and beautiful thing, but it will have to be repaid by French citizens and businesses in our country. That's a lie. No, the French will not have to pay a hidden bill or tax in order to repay the European recovery plan. No, this European Recovery Plan does not allow Europe to prescribe a list of reforms in return for a €40 billion payment. No, this recovery plan does not amplify the CAP. France has fought in Brussels to ensure that our farmers have guaranteed incomes for the next seven years. It should be recalled that at the beginning of the budget negotiations, more than two years ago, the CAP was expected to fall by EUR 15 billion. This must be made clear in this House: the European budget has not been sacrificed a euro for the recovery plan. The latter will be reimbursed collectively, not before 2027, over a period of 30 years, thanks to new own resources. On this last point, the European Parliament, in all its political diversity, has shown a path that we must follow. Beyond the recovery plan, the European Union's budget will really be up to our demands on Europe when it benefits from real own resources through taxation of financial services, a contribution from the digital sector or a carbon tax at the borders. We must make those who do not pay and who benefit from Europe pay. It is through an alliance between the national contributions and the European Union's own resources that we fully participate in the achievement of a Europe of power and further affirm our ambition for the future. While some here openly doubt the relevance of this national contribution to the European budget, let us remember that it always benefits our citizens. We owe this sincerity and truth to our farmers, our fishermen, our youth, our businesses and our researchers, but also to the people who are furthest from employment and the most precarious to whom the European Union is helping. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Republic on the move will vote for the revenue levy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u162	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u163	26.8 billion for the European Union, a sad record; 25% increase for the revenue levy, just that! The figure shows the turn, especially since even before this increase, the cost to public finances of our participation in the European Union was already considerable. In 20 years, more than 106 billion euros – the difference between what France has paid and what it has received – have been spent on it. So many billions for what results? The last few months have shown the emptiness of the European Union. This institution, which is totally ineffective on the major issues at stake today – of course I am thinking of the health crisis, the crisis of globalisation, the migration crisis, but also terrorism – you propose to give it even more resources. With this spectacular increase, it's almost a mediocrity bonus! As every year, the discussions on the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union have stalemated on the balance sheet of its effectiveness. Fortunately for you... Blinded by your federalist ideology, you are ready to continue pouring billions, paid by the French taxpayer, to this institution, whatever the results, far removed from the interests of France and the French. While the world has been facing a serious health crisis for almost a year, the European Union's role in anticipating and managing this crisis is not very bright. Worse, it took advantage of this period to advance its federalist agenda, with the launch of a common debt, which will cost France so much... Let me say a few words about this, because it is essential, in my view, to tell our fellow citizens the truth. The Government repeats in the media this element of simplistic language: "40 billion euros of the recovery plan have been financed by the European Union". This recovery plan is not only financially ineffective, but France's current sovereign debt conditions are more advantageous than those obtained under this federal loan. Each of you is careful not to mention, in addition, the repayment of this loan. At the moment, however, this repayment is planned on the basis of GDP, which could cost France around €67 billion. The European Union's participation in the recovery plan will in fact cost us 27 billion, or more than one point of GDP. And I am not talking about the counterpart called for by the European Union, including the terrible reform of pensions, mentioned by Bruno Le Maire in committee. The principle of the mutualization of debt, blissfully and unilaterally adopted by Mr Macron, without consulting the French people, is a clear and unacceptable denial of democracy. In the concert of nations, the European Union is not even involved in defending its own members. The latest example is the late, ineffective and very weak support given to Greece, which was attacked by Turkey. Worse, at the same time, the European Union continues to finance Turkey and to accept its blackmail to migration, in particular by drawing several hundred million euros from funds normally earmarked for agriculture! On the subject of migration, how can we not mention Mrs von der Leyen's new pact on migration and asylum, whose three pillars – encouraging migration, discouraging evictions and establishing immigration – are the exact opposites of the objectives that should be pursued and which the French are waiting for? I have noted that the Government, by your voice, Mr. Secretary of State, considered us to be referring. I'm still waiting for the beginning of an argument to support your accusation. To paraphrase Marguerite Yourcenar, we are not wrong to be right too soon! We do not want this Europe, and I believe that the French do not want it either. It is time for our budget to be given priority to France and the French, as it is time to substantially reduce our financial participation in the European Union. As you know, the European construction that we call for is that of the European alliance of nations: we wish a Europe that respects the freedom of the peoples and the sovereignty of the nations, a Europe whose financing must not ruin the French. I would not be complete if I did not tell you, on behalf of millions of French people, that this increase is all the more unacceptable because our hospitals, our law enforcement agencies, our small and medium-sized enterprises or our modest families would need these billions wasted. How will giving them to the European Union in order to recover only part of it help the 6 million unemployed or 9 million poor in our country? How will this contribution help small entrepreneurs, who see their company's turnover collapse? These billions could have been used to cancel the charges and taxes claimed at the moment on many of our fellow citizens. Undoubtedly, we do not have the same priorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u164	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u165	I want to answer the many questions that have been raised, rightly, and to go back to the inconsistencies that have erupted some of the interventions. At the beginning of the discussion, Mr Holroyd regretted that this discussion was more like a list of findings than a real debate – I note that Mr Holroyd is no longer there, but I will still answer him. The various statements we have just heard, in particular those of Mr Mélenchon and Mrs Le Pen, have shown, on the contrary, that there is a diversity of opinions on the subject, which is the subject of a lively debate. I am personally delighted to participate and we will devote the necessary time to it. This debate before national representation is important and you were right, like others, to say it, Mr Mélenchon, Mrs Le Pen. I also hope that we can pursue it on other occasions. You have suggested that we work in catini, Mrs Le Pen, but many of the decisions we are discussing today are being debated at this very moment in the European Parliament. You have welcomed the fact that you belong to a large delegation: I hope that it will participate actively in the budget debate. The issue of a common debt by the European Union, on which I shall return in a moment, is subject to strict approval by the National Assembly and the Senate, which will be called upon to take a decision in the coming weeks. By the end of the year, we will therefore have the opportunity to discuss it again here, certainly in your presence. Let us therefore avoid accrediting the thesis of a democratic deficit in the European Union and exercise democracy. I am personally ready for this debate. As you pointed out, Mr Bourlanges, the subject that we are dealing with sometimes becomes a technical subject, which would be the subject of a notarial procedure of a simple recording. Let us put things in perspective: the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union, in other words the French contribution to the European Union budget, is a major issue; This levy now accounts for 5% of the state budget, which is not nothing. Hence the need for discussion and a vote. As for the economic activities financed by the levy, they are far, you will agree, from being secondary or useless. I want to put an end to the idea that France is making a check in Brussels – since it is the frequently used image – whose color it never sees again, whose use it is not known to anyone and which does not finance useful expenses. You mentioned small and medium-sized enterprises, Mrs Le Pen, as well as producers and people in difficulty. On the other hand, you failed, perhaps on purpose, to mention our farmers. You are proposing to reduce the revenue levy to the European Union by EUR 10 billion: if that is the case, will you tell farmers that the CAP is unchanged? For two years, together with the President of the Republic, we fought to ensure that their direct incomes were maintained and that they were not withdrawn from the euro. What will you tell the farmers? There is no CAP without a European budget. We can discuss the content or the amount of this budget, but to say that the billions we send to Brussels do not serve our most modest and difficult fellow citizens is simply a lie. Will you also tell the French fishermen, who you know well, that the European budget is not important and that the European Union does nothing? We see this well with Brexit and with the increase in the financing of the common fisheries policy in the European budget, cooperation is useful. When French fishermen are deprived of access to British waters, as the British sovereignists wish, this creates considerable difficulties for them. The European Union has enabled our fishermen to access the territorial waters of our European neighbours and to cooperate with the fishermen of these countries. You will agree, I think, that such cooperation is valuable and must be preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u166	It was before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u167	That is not true, Mrs Le Pen, at least not with the United Kingdom. You see, it's very important to put things in perspective. [[Smile]] I see that Mr Holroyd is back – Mr Member, I was referring to your brilliant speech at the beginning of my answer! I'm coming right back. It is a matter of topicality, somewhat technical, on which I shall try to be as precise as possible. Mrs Rabault, who had to leave us, said very well: the expression is absurd, if only in terms of the budget. We are told a lot about what is being paid by France, but not enough of what comes back in its caisses. I referred to the example of the CAP, but I could have taken the example of the overseas regions. Both are far from anecdotal. However, let us go to the end of the reasoning and stop at the budgetary image stricto sensu. To take Mrs Rabault's very wise example, the savings we make on the financing of our debt through the European Union are greater than the amount we pay her. If only in budgetary terms, then the just return makes no sense. As for those who doubt the European Union's economic utility, I would point out that the European common market represents 450 million consumers and that 20% of French companies depend directly on exports. However, 55% of French exports are directly destined for European Union countries. Do we really want to deprive ourselves of these opportunities? I would like to say that the revenue levy or the European budget is of no use, but I would like to discuss the content of this budget, but let us be consistent. Mr. Mélenchon left us, but he was just talking about the logic of the right return.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u168	I'm here, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u169	[[Smile]] Forgive me, Mr. President Mélenchon. You are not in your usual place and your discretion has made me doubt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u170	Don't look for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u171	I'm his representative!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u172	He came down from the mountain, that's why!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u173	I repeat: you have called, Mr. Mélenchon, to reason only on the basis of the right return. It is therefore that the economic benefit we derive from the European Union does not, in your opinion, count for anything. Go tell the French companies that they do not benefit from the Polish, Spanish and German markets!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u174	That's not what I said: I talked about money and the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u175	Precisely, in terms of the budget, we can state, without mistake, that France derives a net gain from its participation in the European Union – Mrs Rabault, who can hardly be accused of complacency with the Government, she said. If I add to this the economic gain our country derives for its exports and markets, then the profit for France is even more obvious. I come to the bottom of the debate, on which you were right to question us, Mr Mélenchon: there can be no political project without solidarity. You come from a political family that defends an internationalist vocation oriented towards solidarity. Political solidarity requires budgetary solidarity. Contrary to what you are saying, Mrs Le Pen, I am not a federalist and I do not believe that the European Union is a state or that it must become a state. It is not my dream or my hidden project, nor that of the Government or the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u176	Tell that to President Macron! Europe cannot be sovereign if it is not a state!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u177	I do not want the European Union to be a state, but I am in favour of solidarity, because there can be no political project without solidarity between the European countries. So be consistent: if you think that the right return to the budget must be our obsession, it is that you oppose the European project – it is as simple as that. So there is no single market, no more euro, no more European Union: assume to want France to leave the European Union!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u178	Explain the discounts to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u179	Mr Lecoq, let the Secretary of State finish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u180	We still have a lot of work to do tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u181	I come here, honourable Member, but it was important to come back to these general elements. There is no European project without budgetary solidarity. France is contributing to this solidarity and I assume it. It is called a net contributor to the European budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u182	Tell that to the Germans!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u183	The Germans are, too, but we can go back to the numbers if you want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u184	Mr Mélenchon, let the Secretary of State answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u185	It's good to debate for once!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u186	You asked specific questions, which I want to answer in detail. You said that France had never given so much and never received so little: it is totally false. The French contribution to the budget of the European Union is very high this year, it is true, but within the state budget that the Assembly is currently considering, public expenditure has also increased significantly, to reach a level of historical deficit and public expenditure. These increases are a necessary response to the crisis. In the past, Mr Mélenchon, you have often rightly denounced a Europe of austerity. So you should not be unhappy that the European Union is now promoting a Keynesian recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u187	Yes, the recovery plan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u188	The European Union's budget and our contribution to this budget are both increasing and the other is a fact. On the other hand, it is wrong to say that we have never received so little and the figures prove it. You'll see, the amount of our return will increase next year. According to our latest estimates, the recovery plan will benefit France to the tune of 46 billion euros – I will return to the repayment in a moment. It's not nothing! Divided by three, this amounts to EUR 15 billion each year, more than our net contribution to the European Union. Over the next three years, thanks to the recovery plan, France's return will be the highest ever achieved. F right now, you can't say we've never received so little. That's just not true, Mr. Mélenchon! [[Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq protested]] You may think we're paying too much, but you can't say we're not getting enough or not getting enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u189	Mr Lecoq, let the Secretary of State conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u190	This is a subject that is the subject of debate, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u191	Yes, but you know that this session may last until three o'clock in the morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u192	I answer because I have been asked specific questions. You also said, like Mr Lecoq, that France was paying for Germany through discounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u193	Prove to me that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u194	I'll prove it to you! Germany is a net contributor twice as large as France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u195	So what? What about the discount?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u196	Rather than specifically talking about the discount, look at the budget as a whole!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u197	You're not talking about the discount!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u198	Obviously, each policy can always be examined in isolation...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u199	That's one million a day, the discount!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u200	Dear colleague, I ask you to let the Secretary of State conclude. He wished to reply to the speakers, which was his most strict right. At the end of his speech, we will resume our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u201	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It's so he can get accurate answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u202	We are so happy to have a minister who answers, we benefit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u203	I answer very precisely that Germany contributes more than we do to the European budget as a whole. I will not enter this systematic comparison game but you cannot say that France is the country that pays the most money to the European Union. I assure you that at a time when we are talking in other European parliaments about a Dutch Jean-Luc Mélenchon or a Danish Marine Le Pen also explain that their country has done a very bad job of integrating the European Union and is financing France's common agricultural policy. I'm glad, and you'll probably agree with me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u204	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u205	There is also a need for consistency. Among the interventions denouncing the cost to France of the contribution to the European Union budget, someone took stock of everything that the European Union does not do enough, or not enough, as if it were drawing up a list of races.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u206	You're not very comfortable about discounts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u207	As regards the response to the health crisis, as Mrs Le Pen said, there were serious shortcomings. Do we therefore need less Europe or more Europe in this matter? Is there a need for a common European response to finance the vaccine, industrial relocation, the production of masks, the stocks of medicines?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u208	Start by hiring nurses!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u209	Or is it considered not useful in the end? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You said, Mr Mélenchon, that the planned amount of the recovery plan was EUR 2000 billion. If we add up all the devices, the total is approaching this figure. Therefore, I do not understand why you also estimated that the EUR 750 billion was not enough. Either it's too much or it's not enough but it can't be both at once! It may be hoped that the budget will pay us more and, at the same time, that our contribution will be lower if the others pay in our place. But at the end of the day, if each country were to reason like this, there would be no more Europe. Either you want our contribution to be higher and so the European budget to be larger or you want the European budget to be smaller and then it is true that France's contribution would be smaller. But in the latter case, Europe would have less means to act. If the European budget were to cost us less, we would have to give up an increase in CAP appropriations and more support for our outermost regions – a 5% increase in regional policy. The French cannot be claimed to be the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u210	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u211	No, that's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u212	It's too bad, he's sinking well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u213	I wanted to come back to the question of the rule of law, mentioned in particular by a number of speakers from the La République group on the move. It is very important that, in this budget, a mechanism should be put in place to punish violations of the rule of law. This mechanism will be introduced for the first time in the coming weeks – I am confident on this point. It is obvious that he will not live up to our expectations, but we will continue this fight. Finally, I want to address the issue of own resources, which has been very broadly – and legitimately – mentioned. In the framework of the agreement of 21 July, a consensus of the 27 countries was found, for the first time, on the principle of own resources funding – you can check that in the text. Ms. Thillaye said that since the late 1990s we have not created own resources. In fact, the situation is even more serious, since we have not created one since the 1970s, which clearly shows the extent of the difficulty. This principle has been recognised by all the signatories of the agreement, who have even provided a precise list of resources, recalled by many speakers, and which includes the tax on financial transactions but above all the digital tax and the carbon tax at the borders of Europe. The European Parliament is strongly mobilising itself to create these own resources as soon as possible. There is a growing consensus on the subject. You say that we do not know when, or even if, such a measure will succeed. That's right. But I remind you that six months ago, no one believed that a recovery plan would come about. It was adopted because we fought. I am therefore speaking to you, ladies and gentlemen, from every bench. You have representatives in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u214	We don't have one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u215	Some of them do not support the creation of own resources. However, we should all support this measure together. When the idea of the digital tax began to emerge in 2018, only two countries, including France, defended it. There are twenty-five of them today! I agree with Mr Bourlanges that unanimity is an obstacle to the functioning of the European Union. However, this lock did not prevent us from gradually reaching consensus. While unimaginable a year or two ago, the creation of a digital tax should be proposed and launched by 2022. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This is our fight, let us try to lead it together, since everyone seems legitimately to consider it a good solution to limit the burden of the European Union's budget and thus ensure the repayment of the recovery plan. We will not have a magic wand to solve what appears to be the quadrature of the circle, but our own resources will help us move forward on this issue. We want a more ambitious European budget – which you have all called for – and a French contribution that is not excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u216	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 1472, 504, 2879 and 2395, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 1472.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u217	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for defending before me my amendment, which is to call for a reduction of 10 billion in France's contribution to the European Union, a drop which is particularly justified in this period of economic and social crisis which is expected to be dramatic. This would allow us to regain a margin of manoeuvre for the benefit of our TPEs and SMEs, as well as the most modest families, but also of our hospitals and law enforcement agencies, which are now experiencing difficult times. Let me stop that headless duck that you've been running for years when you're pretending to ask yourself how to help modest families if we give up our contribution. You know that the only real question that arises is why we are contributing more and more as we touch proportionally less and less. All we get is money that we paid out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u218	You didn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u219	By the way, we are being robbed of 8 billion last year, a sum which is still not annoyed and which we should keep, precisely to help those who need it most as a result of the health, economic and social crisis. Why, at last, do you not accept, every time we discuss these issues, to draw up an assessment of the effectiveness of Europe? Stop pretending that we would sometimes want more Europe and sometimes less: that's not true. All we are saying is that France is constantly giving more and more money, while the European Union is increasingly inefficient. Since you refuse to make a statement, we do so in your place on behalf of millions of French. With regard to the fisheries agreements, let me remind you that they date from the 1964 London Convention and therefore have nothing to do with the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u220	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u221	I know all the arguments are good, but we shouldn't be too twisting the story.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u222	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 504.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u223	The amount of the levy on the State's revenue from France's contribution to the EU budget was estimated at EUR 21.337 billion for the year 2020. While there are no specific reasons why this levy should be increased, the text foresees an increase of EUR 5.5 billion between 2020 and 2021. However, the health crisis has once again demonstrated the shortcomings and shortcomings of European action, including in an area as essential as public health. In the face of the pandemic, the twenty-seven countries of the European Union have chosen each for themselves. The fractures that existed within it have worsened, as has the withdrawal of the Member States behind their respective borders, despite some gestures of solidarity here and there, such as the reception of a few patients on the other side of the national borders. Essentially, each country has successfully carried out its own health policy and has chosen its own measures without too much concern for neighbouring States, which is totally in contradiction with the spirit that is supposed to prevail in the European Union, this idea of protecting citizens from health threats and improving surveillance and preparedness in the face of epidemics. We must note the European Union's failure in this area. The increase in France's contribution to the European Union budget is therefore not justified. The demands of the French cannot be continually increased. It is their economic heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u224	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 2879.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u225	It aims to reduce to EUR 23.5 billion the amount of the levy on the State's revenue from France's contribution to the European Union budget, for a simple and good reason: the need for our country to fulfil its commitments. At the beginning of 2020, France had set out its position on the subject. In the annex to the draft finance law for 2020 Financial relations with the European Union, it is written that "as the second contributor to the European budget, France, anxious to control public expenditure, would be ready to accept a budget of 27 expanding under several conditions", in particular "the immediate abolition of all rebates by 2021". However, on arrival, while the budget is well expanding, some countries obtained an increase in their rebate in exchange. I do not think that the outcome of this negotiation is good for our country or that the French taxpayer must pay for the lack of solidarity of some European countries. The aim of this amendment is to limit the increase in France's budget to the burden legitimately foreseen to compensate for the exit from the United Kingdom. On the other hand, we have to ask ourselves about the level of this revenue levy and limit it instead of feeding the budget of other states that are less united than we are. In conclusion, I note that we do not have an analysis of the cost-effectiveness of these contributions. Rather than voting each year for an increase in resources, one day it will be necessary to wonder how France should position itself within Europe on the budgetary question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u226	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 2395.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u227	More modest than the previous ones, it aims to reduce France's participation by 10%. On the one hand, this makes it possible to ask the question of rebates: why do some countries benefit from them and others do not? On the other hand, especially in view of the extremely special situation we are experiencing, I believe, as a convinced European...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u228	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u229	...that by showing true solidarity, we would offer a beautiful image. We could even shift the amount corresponding to our contribution to specific actions. That is the meaning of this amendment, which is not aggressive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u230	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u231	I will not go back to the substantive debate, as the Secretary of State responded well to all the counter-truths made during the general discussion. I note with a little surprise, however, that in this debate we almost seem to apologise for the construction of Europe and its present state, as if we had a shameful Europe and thought we were not going in the right direction. I would point out that the mutualised debt of 750 billion euros is completely new and that no Franco-German couple had managed to submit this idea to the European Council and to bring such a negotiation to a successful conclusion. However, if the stakes of the July agreement have not been grasped,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u232	It's an ideological issue!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u233	...we cannot understand the logic of SRPs, the revenue levies. Mrs Le Pen, this agreement will allow us to finance our own recovery of EUR 40 billion. We can consider it to be of no importance and that the 10 billion by 2021 does not represent anything for our public finances. For my part, I consider them important. I will therefore give an unfavorable opinion to all of these amendments which tend to reduce SRPs because this 25% increase is justified. Yes, she is having a debate, as Gilles Carrez said in very fair terms. But just give the reasons:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u234	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u235	...the increase of 2.1 billion due to Brexit is explained, the increase of 1.6 billion also...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u236	What about the discounts?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u237	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR, GDR and non-attached MPs]] Yes, the 750 million rebates are also explained: they are the ones that make the agreement possible. I myself deplored this situation during my speech during the discussion, but I am also aware that these discounts are important because they allowed the agreement to be reached. The 25% increase is therefore necessary, and even indispensable in order to move the European Union forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u238	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u239	It will be unsurprising, not only to please the rapporteur-general, but also because I do not share the arguments that have been developed and on which I will not come back. Mrs Le Pen, you simply want to remove the very notion of France's net contribution to the budget of the European Union. I understand your logic, but then we have to assume it and admit that in this case there is no longer a European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u240	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u241	If all countries, including the richest, did not make a net contribution to the EU budget, it would disappear. Some consider it to be of no benefit to France. I am prepared to discuss this, but I do not think that is correct. While the level of profit can be discussed, France's contribution to the European Union's budget is a necessity. [[Ms. Marine Le Pen protested]] I would simply like to correct a counter-truth that you have stated concerning the London Convention: if you are sure of what you are making, I invite you to go back to Boulogne to explain to the fishermen that the nodal is not serious since access to British waters will be governed by the London Convention. But that's not true, you know that. If I understand you correctly, the failure to agree would not matter because we have access to British waters anyway?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u242	The London Convention is far ahead of the EU!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u243	Mrs Le Pen, only the speaker has the floor. Mr. Secretary of State, this is the opinion of the Government that I am asking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u244	I would like to take stock of the issue of rebates, since Mr. Aubert and Mr. Zumkeller referred to it both in their speech and in the summary statement of their respective amendments. In substance, I agree that this is an anomaly: they are even the quintessence of the perversion on which the logic of just return rests.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u245	We have to vote on the amendments, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u246	I would point out in passing that we did not create the discounts: they were decided in 1984, extended to several other countries, including Germany, in 1999 – I would like to remind you which French government was in place at the time. I am against the logic of the rebates and I would have preferred to have them eliminated, but they have historically been a necessity in the general balance in order to preserve the CAP and today, I acknowledge in all sincerity, in order to obtain a European recovery plan. This debate will have to continue and lead to their elimination. However, according to the article in the PLF for 2021 which we are looking at this afternoon, I would point out that the rebates represent only EUR 0.3 billion of the total increase in the levy for France's contribution to the European Union budget. The bulk of this increase is due to the cost of the crisis, because it also has an impact on the European budget, and on the Brexit budget – which I regret all the more. Mr Zumkeller, I consider your amendment to be an appeal amendment to continue the fight against discounts, which we share,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u247	Then we must vote on the amendments to support the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u248	...and I confirm the Government's unfavorable opinion on the whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u249	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u250	Mr Secretary of State, the situation is still staggering: in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it was interesting to note that all the speakers in all the groups said that it was a bad agreement... to vote on the provisions of the agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u251	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u252	That is true, my dear colleague, with the exception of a group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u253	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u254	But I find it incredible to increase this levy by $5 billion from state revenues, so to waste $5 billion, when there is never enough money for nurses, police officers and all of our fellow citizens. I heard you say earlier, Secretary of State, that our country is going to pay 10 billion net but that, finally, Europe is extraordinary... Tell Bridgestone workers that it is extraordinary that the European Union has financed relocations by subsidising factories in Poznan, Poland. This is what Europe is: we finance relocations, the departure of our jobs. It's still extravagant. And we even finance Turkey because the money that is poured into it is the money that we pay to the European Union. Not only do we pay 10 billion too much, but we also finance what hurts our country and the French. [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, you feel that this is a way of contributing. But curiously, the other European leaders have defended their nation well. Emmanuel Macron was the pigeon of this summit! For a victory in terms of communication, he only bought time. In truth, you know very well that the 40 billion of this stimulus plan you're getting will cost France a fortune because their repayment will not be financed by own resources – having not been able to get new ones at the time when the voice of France was fundamental, you think that you won't have any more then. Moreover, if countries have obtained discounts – because the French government has given them – they will not give up. The consequence of all this is that in the end we will repay at least 30 billion more. As for the 40 billion themselves, they will not arrive tomorrow, since our country will receive only 10 billion by 2021. It's a lie on the whole line, a communication operation. You paid a lot of money just to be able to say, "We saved Europe! But what Europe? ... The one that hurts the country!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u255	I have before me an amendment, No 2880, introducing an additional article after Rule 31. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u256	This amendment requires the Government to submit to Parliament a report on how our country feeds the European budget. It is a question of knowing how we stand, knowing that there is still a lot of confusion among the French on how the European economy can be revived. I find it deplorable to foresee that the European Union's own resources, i.e. ultimately new taxes, can be created in the event that at some point this recovery plan should be based on new resources. The French Parliament is here to vote on the tax. This policy gives the European Parliament the right to lift new ones. This logic of own resources must be denounced for the future, since this measure will obviously trigger a federalist cycle which will be very difficult to reverse. Therefore, we are at a critical time when we need to know exactly what we are spending. In this regard, I have noted, Mr Secretary of State, that you have indicated that the rebates for France represent only EUR 0.3 billion of the total increase, but it is nevertheless surprising to say that we are against the logic of the rebates and to want to keep them in the name of a recovery agreement. A report would allow us to see more clearly and would help us explain to the French what is happening. Some arguments put forward before the discussion of the amendments show the importance of understanding the balance between what we contribute and what we perceive, as well as the evolution of the trajectory in the years to come. Last but not least, the legal basis for the European recovery plan must be questioned. I am not sure that the European treaties provide a really solid foundation in this respect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u258	Mr President, I would first like to make it clear to Mr Dupont-Aignan that he did not see all the groups when he thought that there was a unanimous denunciation of the agreement: he had only forgotten the majority groups in this House. That is perhaps the problem. Mr Aubert, you are too familiar with the excellent French budget documentation for not having seen the yellow "Financial relations with the European Union". And he answers all the questions you ask through this amendment, which I therefore take as an appeal amendment. Request for withdrawal. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u260	Like the rapporteur-general, I think that the budget documents are sufficient. I would add that the decision on own resources which creates common debt will be brought to the attention of your House. There will be a specific debate, in a few weeks, on the authorisation of ratification. You will then have additional information, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u261	It would be nice if it were updated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u262	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u263	It will be, Mr. President. It really takes a report to find out what's really going on. For example, EU administrative expenditure will reach more than €73 billion, an increase of 4%. I would add that, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we see every year during the examination of the budget, Mr Brindeau can attest to this – even Mr Bourlanges has put forward serious criticisms, at least remarks – an extraordinary gap between the feeling that this is not going well and, at the end, positive votes – with the exception of colleagues who traditionally vote against it. I repeat, we cannot continue to pay such rare and hard-won money by our fellow citizens to an organisation that hurts France so much. You clearly bear the responsibility, Mr Secretary of State, the rapporteur-general. It is enough to compare the net 10 billion a year that will be paid to it with what could be done for hospitals, knowing that the Segur of Health is only 6 billion. I really believe that the French will be able to quickly judge what is happening.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the revenue levy for the European Union is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u265	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u266	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u267	On Friday evening, the Assembly had stopped to Amendment No 2112 on the additional article after Article 22. This amendment is not being defended. I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 1579, 1644, 1742, 2278 and 2507. Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 1579.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u268	The departmental funds for equalization of the professional tax – FDPTP – are financed by the State allocations. The associated funds, which are allocated by the departmental councils, are intended to introduce equalisation in favour of the municipalities and EPCI – public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – disadvantaged. However, FDPTP has been integrated into the adjustment variables since 2017. They are therefore affected annually by budget cuts. This is why this amendment aims to remove them from the scope of the adjustment variables: in view of the solidarity vocation of these funds, successive minorities can only fuel the misunderstanding of the most fragile territories and especially of the rural communes, already in difficulty. It seems counterproductive to us, moreover, to reduce the amount associated with these funds, since they are intended for the most difficult local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u269	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 1644.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u270	This is an amendment drawn up by Mr Descoeur. Similar to the one just presented, it is actually intended to extract the FDPTP from the adjustment variables. This method of calculation has in fact led to a decrease in funds, in very large and very variable proportions from one department to another. For example, 15 departments have seen their funds redistributed reduced to zero. I would like to highlight the situation of the departments, which have been deeply affected by the health crisis. This crisis particularly affecting the most precarious, the demands of RSA – active solidarity income – are taking off: the number of RSA beneficiaries thus increased on average by 10% between August 2019 and August 2020, resulting in a sharp increase in spending for the departments. You will oppose me, Minister Delegate, that the Government has announced the implementation of financing measures, the amount of which will reach 800 million euros in the framework of the recovery plan. These measures, however, will not only fund the RSA, since they will cover the whole social field. However, departments have important needs and it is important to support them in the current period. I would add that departmental spending will also increase to provide accommodation in EHPADs, where daily cost prices are exploding as a result of the additional costs associated with the covid -19 epidemic. I therefore believe that it is essential to support the departments at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u271	Amendments Nos 1742 by Mr Stéphane Viry and 2278 by Mr Paul Christophe are defended. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 2507.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u272	We will have the opportunity to come back to it later, but the departmental funds for equalization of the professional tax have been integrated since 2017 into the adjustment variables. They are therefore affected annually by budget cuts. France thus has 15 departments whose allocation of funds to be redistributed is reduced to zero, in favour of the communal and intercommunal blocs. Therefore, in view of the solidarity vocation of the funds, successive minorities can only fuel the misunderstanding of the most fragile territories and especially of the rural communes, already in great difficulty. It is also counterproductive to reduce the amount associated with these funds if they are directed at the most difficult local authorities. That is why we propose to remove the FDPTPs from the perimeter of the adjustment variables. Several effects of scissors can play in this respect. The one we are talking about is one, but it leads to a decrease rather than an increase in resources. We will have an opportunity to discuss other mechanisms at a later stage, but it seems to me that the debate should focus on departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u273	On Amendment No 2944, which will be called in a moment, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u274	It is unfavorable, for the simple and good reason that they are satisfied. The reduction referred to did not take place in 2020 and will not take place in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u275	Oh, my God! We're reassured!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u276	The amount of EUR 284 million is maintained. Therefore, I do not consider it necessary to exclude FDPTP from the reduction scheme. I recall, as we pointed out on Friday night, that these minorities have reached their lowest level since 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u277	The Deputy Minister for Public Accounts has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u278	It is the same as the rapporteur-general. You were right to say that the FDPTP has been included in the adjustment variables since 2017. In 2020, we made the choice, which we propose to confirm for fiscal year 2021, not to reduce the FDPTP. Of course, we can theoretically consider that this fund is still part of the adjustment variables, but we have decided, in this case, to keep it at its current level. Your request is therefore, in a way, satisfied, unless a principle of exclusion of the FDPTP from the list of adjustment variables is laid down – a principle which, in the case of a finance law, would be valid for only one year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u279	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u280	It is precisely because we consider that this measure should be included in the duration that we want to remove the FDPTP from the scope of the adjustment variables.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u281	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u282	Departments need to be readable, both for themselves – because, as my colleagues have pointed out, social spending is increasing, as is spending on road infrastructure, since the State, in many cases, no longer finances the necessary work on national roads and obliges departments to replace it – and in the context of the redistribution of resources they provide to municipalities, especially the poorest municipalities. FDPTP serves this purpose. The removal of adjustment variables from the perimeter would be a positive signal at a time when there are serious concerns about the future of many projects in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u283	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support the Government's amendment No. 2944.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u284	This is an amendment, I know, and it is a debate. I will try to explain its genesis. When, last year, you passed the Finance Act for 2020, we introduced a scheme to compensate for the removal of the housing tax. We had planned to allocate to the municipalities the property tax on the built properties of the departments, and had taken note of the fact that this tax, which amounted to about EUR 15 billion in 2020, would be compensated to the departments by the payment of a fraction of VAT, equivalent to EUR 15 billion, plus an amount of EUR 250 million. This addition was justified in this way: for three years – and even more, it is necessary to give back to Caesar what is Caesar's – and with the exception of the year 2020, on which I will return, Parliament has voted annually in PLFR – an amending finance bill – a stability fund of between 115 and 130 million euros. This fund is intended to help departments cope with the increase in certain expenditure – particularly social expenditure. The Prime Minister and I had validated the principle that the stability fund of EUR 115 million would be increased, on a flat-rate basis, to EUR 250 million. In 2021, the departments would receive the equivalent of the departments' TFPB revenues in 2020, i.e. EUR 15 billion, plus EUR 250 million. The Finance Act for 2020 also provided that in 2022 the departments would receive the sum of EUR 15.25 billion, updated up to the level of VAT revenue observed between 2020 and 2021. But, of course, we had not foreseen the current crisis: due to the 10% recession in 2020 and the prospect of a 8% rebound next year, the government's VAT revenue will increase mechanically by 10% between 2020 and 2021. The compensation paid to the departments would thus increase from EUR 15.25 billion to EUR 16.3 billion or EUR 16.4 billion. I understand that such a development can be seen as beneficial for the departments, but everyone will agree that if we had committed ourselves to a dynamic compensation of the transfer of the TFPB, an increase of 10% rather than 2.8% – as is the case on average for VAT revenues – nevertheless creates a boon effect. Some departments, as I know, believe that they will face an increase in social expenditure, particularly under the RSA, and that they should therefore be allowed to receive this extra billion in 2022. First of all, we hope – and I believe that everyone shares this feeling – that by 2022, the recovery will make it possible to amortize this expenditure effort. Above all, I consider that if there was an upsurge in RSA spending, we would have to know about it by 2021 and not by 2022. Jacqueline Gourault and I proposed last week to the departments to update the method of calculating the compensation, keeping the base of EUR 15.25 billion for 2021, but deciding that, by 2022, this sum would increase according to the evolution of VAT revenues in the year 2021. The calculation of the compensation would thus be based on a contemporary basis upon its payment, which would avoid the effect of a boon of about 10% that I referred to earlier. We don't want to leave it there. We propose that you adopt – either by amending the first or the second part of this finance bill, or through the fourth PLFR for 2020 – the following scheme, which we have submitted to the departments: it is a matter of providing, thanks to an amendment defended by Jean-René Cazeneuve, a levy from the revenue of the state of 60 million euros, which will abound the national fund for equalisation of DMTO – transfer fees for consideration – created by the departments last year. The abundance of this fund responds to a demand from the departments and the stagnation or even decline of the DMTO upsets this dynamic. The State intends to remedy this difficulty. We are also discussing with the departments, within the framework of the PLFSS – the draft law on the financing of social security – the issue of the over-contribution of CNRACL – the national pension fund for local government employees – which amounts to 40 million euros. We have therefore committed ourselves that during the review of the fourth PLFR, the Government will introduce a provision allowing the renewal of the €115 million stability fund planned for 2017, 2018 and 2019 in 2020, but not for 2020. Moreover, the debate on compensation for the abolition of the housing tax does not, of course, preclude the necessary continuation of discussions with the departments on the taking over of social expenditure, in particular social minima. We therefore propose a comprehensive package, which includes several commitments: to maintain the momentum of the DMTO equalisation fund, to deal with the issue of the over-contribution of CNRACL, to renew in 2020 the stability fund of 115 million euros and above all to fulfil the promise of paying to departments 15.25 billion euros of VAT in 2021 instead of 15 billion euros of TFPB, while retaining the principle of a dynamic recipe for 2022. This dynamic will simply have to be based on the evolution of VAT between 2021 and 2022, in order to avoid the impact of the crisis, which no one had seen coming – neither the departments nor the State. There is no question of accusing anyone of wanting to take advantage of this bounty effect: we make a simple observation, which engages public finances. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u285	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u286	This is an important amendment, which deserves a debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u287	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u288	It is important that we take the time to discuss it tonight – both in substance and in form, because we did not discuss it in the Finance Committee. As MPs, we need to ask ourselves two questions: by voting on this amendment, do we respect the spirit of what we adopted when we considered the 2020 finance bill, and do we respect the departmental councils? Our responsibility as parliamentarians also obliges us to ask ourselves whether we respect the state's public finances. If we adopt the Government's amendment, the spirit of the Finance Act for 2020 will indeed be respected. The minister delegate explained well that, on the one hand, we maintain the VAT dynamic by keeping the security of the TFPB 2020 – it is absolutely not called into question – and, on the other hand, because we are responsible for public money, we leave on a different basis from that which would have prevailed if we had left the effects of the crisis to transform the denominator of the calculation method. It was necessary to find a compromise; the amendment succeeds. We do not prevent departments from benefiting from the reform adopted in 2019: the transfer of built land from the departments to the communal block and the compensation by a fraction of VAT are maintained. We do not in any way cancel the benefits that the departments will derive from the VAT dynamics, knowing that the TFPB 2020 is in some way a safety net for them. On the other hand, we are correcting the effect of a crisis that no one could anticipate last autumn, which does not seem desirable either for the public accounts of the State or even for those of the departments, because it would somehow distort all the ongoing debates mentioned by the delegate minister, whether that of the additional 250 million euros already announced, which are part of a global discussion, or that of the creation of a revenue levy for the equalisation fund. I hope that we will adopt this equalisation fund after Rule 23 with an amendment by Jean-René Cazeneuve which the Committee on Finance accepted last week at its meeting under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. I agree with you that the timing of our decisions may not be ideal and that there is a little anticipation of voting on the Government's amendment tonight, when we do not have full visibility on the agreement between the Government and the departments. However, the PLF is on the agenda at the moment and amendments after Rule 22 are called tonight. It is up to us to take our responsibilities, as parliamentarians, and to vote on the amendments when they are submitted to us if we believe they are justified on the merits, and if we honour the promise we made to the departments when we voted on the reform of local taxation last year. It makes sense because we are correcting the effects of a crisis that could not be anticipated, and we are collectively the guardians of the state's public finances. For all these reasons, I am in favour of the Government's amendment, on which I find it normal and healthy that we can debate for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u289	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u290	In its 2020 report on the financial situation and management of local and regional authorities and their public institutions in 2019, i.e. just before the crisis of the covid-19, the Court of Auditors considers that "the departments are particularly exposed to a reversal of economic conditions". The procyclical dynamics of the DMTO and the countercyclical social spending weaken the departments. This will increase with the 2020 reform of local taxation and the replacement of the departmental built-up property tax by a fraction of VAT. That is what the Court of Auditors said at the time. She was so right; It's really at the wise man's house. If we look at the variations in per capita DMTOs today, the differences are huge. Some rural departments have very low per capita DMTOs, whereas these can be very high in urban departments. The mission led for the Government by Jean-René Cazeneuve, president of our delegation to local authorities and decentralization, on the impact of the crisis of the covid-19 on local finances, also indicates a forecast of a 25% decrease in this important revenue of the departments between 2019 and 2020. Without any consultation, the Government is tabling an amendment that will jeopardize all revenues. Should I remind you, there is no correlation between the evolution of the DMTO which signifies a decrease in revenue and the exponential increase in social expenditure? [[Minister Delegate protested]] This provision costs one billion in 2022 – in 2021 we agree, it will have no effect, it is a white year – but it will cost as much the following year, and so on: by the end of 2025, 4.2 billion will have been lost for all departments. Yes, lost, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u291	It's not lost!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u292	The Government has not provided any response or guarantee regarding the increase in RSA spending for the departments – we do not know at all what will happen in this area – and today it intends to pass a reform that will cost them 4.2 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u293	Mrs. Dalloz, we have to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u294	Departments have already been the most forgotten of the support plan, and they are the only departments to receive only repayable advances. Once again, with this provision, they are being mistried. We will vote against a measure taken to their detriment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u295	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u296	I admit that I too was a little disturbed when I discovered an amendment that goes back to what we voted last year, but it deserves to be examined more closely. Last year, we wanted to replace a recipe, to the nearest euro, with another dynamic recipe – proof is given that it was. Of course, we could not foresee the current crisis and the ensuing effects of yo-yo. Ensuring that departments have an equivalent recipe with a dynamic of the order of 3% in 2022 seems to me to respect to the letter the spirit of our reform of 2019. You have established a link between the somewhat exceptional rebound in resources and the need for the crisis this year and next year. I think it's a miscalculation. First of all, compensation will only exist if the rebound corresponds to the needs: there is no reason for it to be so, there could be equality between the amounts in question only because of pure chance. Secondly, developments will not be the same everywhere. As you said, Mrs Dalloz, DMTOs vary a lot from department to department, and you could have said the same about RSA's requests – this year, some departments are up by 1%, others by 17%. In other words, it seems to me that it is not appropriate for everyone to benefit from an uncalibrated and untargeted measure. This does not meet the needs of departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u297	Mr Cazeneuve, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u298	The important thing, I have heard from the delegate minister's very mouth – and perhaps we need to go even further: he has made the commitment that we will be able to propose to the departments, as soon as next year, because it is at this time, and not in 2022, that they will need it, a package, which he has just given the main elements, which will adapt to the demands of RSA or the possible decrease in their resources, so that we can continue to support the territorial authorities as we have always done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u299	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u300	The Government's amendment derives from the compensations arising from the abolition of the housing tax. In December 2019, departments and the state signed a kind of contract in this area. While new economic developments have emerged today, one of the parties, in this case the Government, unilaterally decides to reduce the dynamics of the evolution of compensation because it is not favourable to it. In other words, Minister Delegate, you are changing the rules of the game during the game. Would you have done that if the situation had been too bad for the departments? We can question each other. As it is, your discussions with the departments are not over. A number of topics are still on the table. It would have been important to have a comprehensive vision, especially since it was an amendment of EUR 1 billion. It's not nothing! I would add that the time is wrong to refuse to support the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u301	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u302	I agree with what some of my colleagues have already said. First of all, I do not see the urgency of adopting a system of 2022 and 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u303	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u304	We could discuss a little more seriously an amendment that would "cost" EUR 1 billion. Secondly, allow me a global reflection. You claim that you are motivated by an unforeseen phenomenon. As I am more concerned with the financial and fiscal autonomy of communities, I understand, in essence, that when a rule to calculate dynamic taxation turns to their advantage, it should be changed. This is a surprising view of financial autonomy, especially as we know that RSA's spending will increase in the period of recession that begins and, I fear, will not end in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u305	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u306	I object to Mrs Dalloz's comments. We cannot say that departments will "lose" $1 billion, then $5 billion. Of course, there is a gap of 1 billion and then 5 billion between the situation as modified by the adoption of the amendment and the status quo which would maintain the calculation method developed last year. But don't let us think that departments would lose money as if we decided on a smaller recipe. We are changing the calculation procedures to keep as close as possible to what we decided last year, taking into account a new economic reality. Mrs Louwagie, you're saying we're changing the rules of the game...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u307	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u308	Excuse me, but it was the crisis that upset everything! If you go that way, we have also changed the rules of business support, of their taxation, of debt or of the deficit. In this case, yes, the rules of the game have changed. It would be dishonest towards the departmental councils not to respect...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u309	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u310	...what we voted last year. By adopting the Government's amendment, we respect our 2019 decision to reform local taxation; This is the most important one. Would it have been the same in the other direction, would you ask? The answer is "yes". The proof of this is that we have consistently provided for compensation mechanisms. I refer you to the third PLFR that you followed well. The communal block, the department with DMTO advances, and, since then, the regions with which we have made good progress: each community has been compensated for the losses caused by the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u311	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u312	Mr President, Mrs Dalloz would have wanted to take the floor again: it is important, it is EUR 1 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u313	I thank the various speakers. I want to give you a few figures and share different evaluations. As of 30 September last year, we saw a decrease of about 7% in the DMTO compared to the previous year. Based on this observation of the services of the DGFiP, the Directorate General of Public Finance, we expect an overall annual decrease of 10 to 12%, which is rather good news in relation to our fears that they will contract by 20 to 25%. We have the same observation for the whole of the tax system: the decline seems to be less than expected. In addition, we now expect an average increase of 8.7% in the number of RSA registrants. This is an average since we sometimes see an increase of 1% and other times of 20%. Next year, with the payment of 15 billion plus 250 million, the agreement is being held. The following year, this amount will be indexed to the evolution of VAT between 2021 and 2022. The objective is, of course, to return to traditional economic growth rates, and a change of the order of 2.8% which guarantees the dynamics of compensation. Our amendment is only intended to remove the "scaling effect" caused by the mechanical effect of the collapse and subsequent increase in VAT revenues between 2020 and 2021. I am talking about "a boon effect" because economic vocabulary thus refers to this situation; In no case is it a matter of complaining to the departments, as no one had foreseen such a development. If we had been told that the gap was not 2.8 but 3.5 or 4, we would not have this amendment and there would be a benefit for the departments, after all that would be the rule of the game; But the gap is so big for state finances that we can only adjust the method of calculation, while guaranteeing the dynamics of this compensation. I'm sorry to make associations of ideas, but the 60 million that we will now propose to include in the DMTO equalization fund between departments correspond to the shortfall in the fund in the event of a 15% reduction in DMTO. I have just told you that we are currently down 7%, and that we have the prospect of a decrease of 10% or 12%, with the effects of delay. From this point of view we are on our way. The allocation from which the departments will benefit in compensation of the TFPB, with the fraction of VAT, will be 15.25 billion and it will be dynamic; However, it will not be on a 10% dynamic. Mr. Acquaviva, when you see us changing a rule that would be too favorable to the community, you ask us if, in the opposite situation, we would have reacted as well. The rapporteur-general told you: the answer is yes. I am told a lot about the social economy, the financial economy and even the tax economy, except that when tax revenues fall, the state is asked to compensate for them. This was the case with the guarantee mechanisms for the local block. Where I share what has been said, it is that for the departments, it is reimbursable advances, in accordance with the request of the Assembly of the French Departments – ADF – and with a repayment clause that takes into account the return to good fortune.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u314	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u315	We can't be more royalist than the king, Mrs. Dalloz. For the advances, we acted in agreement with the ADF. That is why we are presenting this amendment. Dynamics will be preserved, compensation is integral, and we will ensure that departments are accompanied in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u316	I put to the vote Amendment No. 2944.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u317	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 68 Number of votes cast 66 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 45 Against 21
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u318	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-19-O1026.u319	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the 2021 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
