ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill to improve the health system through trust and simplification (No. 3470, 3598).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u3	Minister, you can remove your scarf, because it's going to be very hot just now. The rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, 'Trust and Simplification': this is a curious title for this bill, which in reality raises mistrust and introduces disparate measures as well as fairly unreadable governance. This is not a real reform, which you are assuming. Moreover, governance reform is only possible if all stakeholders consider themselves involved in its development. The purpose of the bill, you say, would be to translate certain measures from the conclusions of the Secur de la santé. It should be noted that the initial text was beginning badly: its chapter I was devoted to the creation of an intermediate medical profession which would give concrete expression to the measure No. 7 of Ségur, intended by the Minister of Solidarity and Health and intended to remedy medical desertification. However, this measure has not been ratified and the doctors' unions have absolutely rejected it. For the doctor's order, which opposed it, the priority remains to implement advanced practices and to change the existing health professions. Why, then, such a rush? Why add to the reform of health studies, which started a short time ago? In the face of the outcry that it provoked in the medical world, you have given up what you considered to be the flagship measure of this bill, and that has led you back to the retropedaling. You had to rewrite this one to replace this stillborn measure. The text of the Social Affairs Committee is now beginning to burn with an article calling for a report to be submitted to Parliament "on the state of play of the introduction of advanced medical aids and cooperation protocols". Madam rapporteur, you are convinced that you are moving forward on the subject of the resorption of medical deserts. Is it not better to recognize the essential role of nurses as a component of the first remedy? It is a pity that our proposal to institute a nursing assessment and guidance consultation for the management of benign diseases or small wounds was rejected on the grounds that it contravened the provisions of article 45 of the Constitution. In addition, we also challenge the competences that you assign to the GHT – hospital groups of territory – in particular the concentration of support functions. As the Court of Auditors advises, on the contrary, we would like to see a strategy of grouping health professionals, elected representatives and the needs of the population as closely as possible, as well as the strengthening of proximity within each territory. We will therefore defend amendments to amend these provisions, which have been added without any prior consultation. Instead of establishing the trust claimed by the title of the bill, it is the defiance that you establish with respect to the local level of the territories and peripheral hospitals. Yet the health crisis that we are going through reveals a health system that is too far away from the problems of territory. In addition to hospital professionals, local actors, mayors, departmental advisors and front-line doctors have been confronted with emergency management. They have done their job, and we must thank them all. Article 4 is quite conflicting. The appointment of a hospital practitioner must be the responsibility of the director of the hospital on the advice of the establishment board. Let us therefore leave the choice, at the local level, among the candidates who can apply, as the group of directors of hospitals in France wishes. You also want to force the integration of THGs, which have only four years of existence, by systematically entrusting to the institution support of the grouping the joint management of any party establishment whose management position is vacant. Once again, you have rewritten Article 7 to give the appearance of a choice: the interim is entrusted to the GHT and, after a period of one year, the only possibility offered to the director of the regional health agency – ARS – is to entrust the management of the institution party to the supporting institution, the strategic committee, the territorial committee of local elected representatives and the supervisory board of the institution party only issuing a simple opinion. I am aware of Mrs Stéphanie Rist's involvement in the GHT field, but our opinion differs from her on some points. We contest the fact that the interim leadership is systematically decided by the top. Our hospitals must be driven by a local management, and the forced sharing of the GHT is in our opinion a mistake. Let us trust that the common direction is neither necessary nor sufficient with regard to the integration of medical teams into the GHT, according to the terms used by the Court of Auditors at its hearing. I repeat to Ms.Rist: Even if the bill is rewritten, it continues to cause opposition. It is finally sinning by an excess of hospitalo-centrism and by a total absence of reform of governance. We therefore reserve our vote, particularly in light of the evolution of Articles 4 and 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u4	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u5	A few months ago, at the end of July, the Ségur de la santé provided answers to the difficulties faced by our public hospitals following the health crisis that has shaken our health system. After the signing of the Ségur agreements, it was no less than €8.2 billion that was mobilised in the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021 to upgrade the professions of public health institutions and EHPADs, as well as to strengthen the attractiveness of the public hospital. These first financial measures, which were a strong political gesture, served as a breath of oxygen for all public actors. Today, through our colleague Stéphanie Rist's proposal for a law, we have to debate on the part of the Segur's non-financial organisational commitments and on the part of the rapporteur's proposals to improve the functioning of the public hospital. Our health system is based on three pillars: the public hospital, to which the PPL devotes itself; health paid or managed by ESPICs – private health institutions of collective interest – not for profit; Finally, liberal medicine, with its private establishments and liberal professionals working in our cities and countryside. It is driven by a universalist vision, which promotes the convergence of these three systems of activity, that the Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats tackles this text. We want to promote the mix of modes of exercise, which can integrate all health facilities – whether public, voluntary or private – local hospitals and all liberal actors. That is the spirit of the work we have done since the beginning of the legislature, around the "My Health 2022" strategy. After a rich exchange with all the stakeholders involved during the hearings, we must welcome – and particularly the rapporteur – the fact that the parliamentary debate has already enabled the committee to find points of convergence. However, points of discussion, highlighted during the examination in committee, remain: I am thinking in particular of Article 1 and Article 7. While we welcome the rapporteur's rewriting work on Article 1, we believe that it is up to our House to deal with this issue through a flash mission, an initiative which should enable Parliament to make proposals. I have thus sent the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs a request to that effect; It will be discussed at the next meeting of our committee bureau, and I am confident that it will be heard. As for Article 7, the proposal for rewriting adopted in committee continues to question us. The rapporteur wishes to move towards more integration of public institutions within the GHT, as we express our support for greater integration and convergence in a living area, between public, private, ESPIC and city medicine institutions, thanks to the CPTS – territorial occupational health communities – such as health cooperation groups. We believe it is essential to strengthen the links between all actors in the health system, in order to give them long-term prospects. The crisis that we are going through reinforces us in this analysis, and I thank the Minister for saying so earlier. We believe that it is useful, if not necessary, to build bridges and bridges between all actors, regardless of how they exercise. That is why the MoDem Group and related democrats will be defending amendments that could open up the public hospital to its partners. This is in particular the case of the one tabled by my colleague Philippe Vigier in favour of the development of a structure of collaboration between public health institutions, private clinics and liberal professionals gathered within a CPTS. The amendment to allow ESPIC doctors to engage in liberal activity was unfortunately considered inadmissible, precisely at 1603 hours, and I very much regret that. In committee, we were told that we could have a discussion with the minister, but we will not have the opportunity. Secondly, the amendment to clarify the concept of vacancy is the starting point for our reflection on the creation of a common direction. Our group had also tabled an amendment reflecting the provisions of a bill to label structures that offer unscheduled care without a life-threatening prognosis, the so-called PASI – reception points for immediate care – which the House unanimously adopted. Unfortunately, again, the amendment was found inadmissible by the services of the meeting; We wonder why. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] We therefore expect a great deal from this debate in session, in order to extend with the Minister the rich debates we have had; This will be necessary to improve and clarify certain provisions of the text. I wish us a good job.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u6	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u7	When we have the ambition to improve the health system, we cannot rely solely on trust and simplification. Such an ambition requires, above all, serious assessment and expertise, allowing the legislator to arbitrate choices that may prove to be cumbersome, particularly for the public hospital. However, the very nature of your text prevents us from benefiting from the opinion of the Council of State as well as from an impact assessment, which could, however, have informed us of the consequences of the changes you wish to introduce, for example at the level of the GHT. We deeply regret it and you recalled it in our motion to reject it beforehand. While it was announced as the transposition of the non-budgetary measures of the Ségur de la santé, we find that only half of the articles in the PPL refer to it. It is true that the conclusions of this consultation, presented on 10 July to the trade unions, contained little or no major progress on the reorganisation of our health system. For the rest, you introduce disparate and inconsistent measures, which form a composite text, some of which are dangerous and create significant opposition on the part of orders, trade unions, professionals and even, at the end of the commission's work, firefighters. I will not go back to the cacophony of Article 1 and the creation, led beating drum, of an intermediate profession, likely destined for medical deserts. In the face of the outcry that you provoked in trying to overcome the concertation promised at the end of the Segur, you had to rewrite it in an emergency. Nevertheless, this profession, whose role and missions remain obscure, may lead to a two-tiered medicine and thus create geographical and social inequality in the face of the disease. With a view to resolving the difficulties in accessing the care of our fellow citizens in the territories, you are introducing in this text amendments to the serious consequences for the autonomy of the hospitals in the territories, particularly for rural hospitals. By giving more powers to HHT support institutions and by further distancing responses to users' health needs, the articles in your proposed HHT law are, in a very surprising way, contrary to what your "My Health 2022" strategy advocates. They even contravened the spirit of the creation of the GHT, which in no way aimed at the total centralization of powers within the supporting institutions. Of course, at the end of our committee work, the principle of the automaticity of the common directorates has been replaced by an interim of one year, but in the end this will only slightly delay the establishment of common directorates. Each hospital director must maintain his or her autonomy. If there is nothing to guarantee that this complex administrative system will lead to better care for patients, we note, however, that this system is more directed towards an objective of budgetary savings than towards an improvement in the quality of care. Based on the studies of the IGAS – Inspectorate General of Social Affairs – and the Court of Auditors, which have been limited to financial aspects only, you are, in fact, insidiously changing the law of modernization of our health system of 2016. The HHT is a cooperation tool in which each health facility has a strategic place. In fact, there is no typical HHT: each has its own structural, geographic, demographic, historical constraints, which is why each institution has an important role to play in territorial networking. As I pointed out in committee, the existence of certain hospitals is due to a constant struggle by health care providers, doctors and administrative staff. If the level of the director, their spokesperson and defender of the institution, disappears, the establishment risks being broken down and, therefore, decisions taken, to the detriment of it, by the director of the supporting establishment. The review of this text could have provided an opportunity for debate and reform of hospital governance, but the choice of an accelerated procedure will prevent us from further developing our work. Our group will therefore not vote urgently for this text, which contains provisions that are too serious and not evaluated for local hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u8	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u9	Non-native primum, in other words: above all, it is important not to harm. This principle of prudence, which doctors learn from their early years, must be ours tonight. The reforms that we are proposing to the world of health, and therefore to France as a whole, must be tangible, bring real improvement and meet the simplification needs called for on all sides. The project is therefore enormous, and the proposal for a law is not intended to remedy all the difficulties, but, in the face of an announced text such as the translation of the Segur concertation, the expectations could only be enormous. Caregivers have observed the health community with attention and realism that they do not have to blush: today, the skills, technicality and societal role of health professions can no longer be ignored. We must build on the reality of the ground, starting from those without which the health system would simply not exist. If anything bad is good, the health crisis will have allowed a new look to health: let us not miss this opportunity. The road is still long, and all sectors – economic, social and environmental – call for our diligence, but we cannot deny that today, health conditions all the others. This will always be the case tomorrow, and even if the numbers of the epidemic improve, we must not forget our responsibility to provide a real response, nor our duty to break with the decisions that have only weakened our health system year after year. The proposal for a law contains some advances that I would like to welcome, such as the strengthening of the supervision of medical interim care and the expansion of the activities that may be carried out by midwives and massage therapists, although I regret that this enlargement could not be opened to other professions, since the amendments which seek to do so were considered inadmissible. I would also like to pay tribute to Mr Stéphanie Rist for his constant listening, and to thank her for having changed the text, following the hearings, during the debates in committee. However, the Group would like to return in particular to three articles which guided the discussions during the committee discussion. First of all, Article 1, which tended to create an intermediate medical profession, caused a lifting of shields that could not be ignored. Our group therefore hopes that the rewriting of this article will mark a new impetus for the development of advanced practices, which, because they offer opportunities for evolution and transversality, are expected of healthcare professionals. These practices are the intermediate level on which our health system can, and must, be reborn, but they cannot be developed without moving ahead with the reengineering and universisation of training, which completely condition all the prospects for the evolution of the health professions and have therefore been too late. They cannot suffer an umpteenth postponement. On the other hand, article 7, which has been much discussed and on which our group has already expressed its reservations, is moving towards greater integration between hospitals, in order to enable better care for patients in the territories and to ensure equal access to care. While we obviously share this objective, we believe, however, that the establishment of a common direction must be the culmination of a cooperative approach, in close consultation with local actors: to impose it unilaterally, as provided for in this article, is not a good method. More integration is sometimes a step forward for health care teams and for patients, but this is not the case everywhere. Sometimes it doesn't work: we must also hear these realities and the fears expressed by local hospital centres and local hospitals. At the initiative of the rapporteur, our work in committee has led to the introduction of safeguards for medical acting. Its duration cannot now exceed one year, and the decision to entrust the management of the institution concerned falls to the SRA after all stakeholders have been consulted before the merger. However, we regret that the committee did not consider it appropriate to make the merger of establishments subject to the assent of the bodies: we will come back to that when we consider the amendments. The mission to assess and monitor social security financing laws – MECSS – starting in January a cycle of evaluation of HHTs, four years after their creation, perhaps it would be appropriate to wait for the conclusions of its work before going further into the deepening of HHTs. Finally, with regard to article 14, which provides for the creation of a national platform for persons with disabilities, we question strongly the association of departments and the usefulness of creating an additional layer that could be redundant with departmental actions. We therefore expect the Government to clarify this matter. As you can see, therefore, our group is looking at the bill in a constructive and open-minded manner. We are convinced of the possibility of reaching a drafting that will be acceptable to all, in particular with regard to article 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u10	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u11	We have already made extensive reference to the findings of the current health crisis: bureaucratization of medical time, concentration of doctors and hospitals, lack of attractiveness of paramedical professions or specialties, uneven distribution of budgets in the territories. However, while it has highlighted the extraordinary strength of our caregivers, the virus has also revealed the inability of our health care system to reduce social inequalities in the face of the disease. The aim of the major consultation of the Ségur de la santé was to consider the increase in promised wages, to improve working conditions and the care of patients in the hospital. Failing to take into account all health professionals, the draft law on the financing of social security – PLFSS – for 2021, which the Assembly has just adopted definitively, provides for important measures concerning investment in institutions, salary adjustments, the recruitment of new staff and the significant increase of the ONDAM – national objective of health insurance expenditure. We would have preferred that the Segur's non-budgetary measures should be the subject of a bill, and therefore be submitted by the Government, as it would have provided an impact assessment and the advice of the Council of State, but you have made another choice. However, this text does not make it possible to distinguish a massive mobilization of the health system in favour of reducing social and territorial inequalities in health. Indeed, it does not say anything about our organization's ability to understand the diversity of health situations in the territories and to catch up with the most alarming situations, the result of an industrial past, economic specificities, fragile social situations and demographic characteristics, necessarily different from one region to another: there are not one, but several health conditions, depending on the regions, and to which we can only provide differentiated responses. On the form, we share the objectives of the title of the text: the reform of our health system must involve more confidence and simplification towards and for its professionals. In fact, the various articles that give institutions more flexibility to organize themselves freely and encourage recruitment seem to us to be in the right direction. However, on the substance, the bill we are considering today is far from the original text: many amendments made in the Committee on Social Affairs last week removed inconsistencies. I am thinking in particular of Article 1, the original wording of which was intended to give a legal framework to a new intermediate medical profession. Finally, we were reassured by the reverse in this area, as were all health professionals, especially doctors, whose order had threatened no longer to participate in the discussions on this intermediate profession if the article were not withdrawn. Indeed, as French people are already struggling to orient themselves in the care system, creating a new profession would have added confusion without unlocking the significant partitioning that currently exists between the professions. We hope that Article 7, which deals with the acceleration of integration within hospital groups of territories, will have the same fate: indeed, this integration seems to us to be part of an authoritarian approach which does not correspond to the volunteerism shown in the "My Health 2022" strategy. There are currently 135 GHTs in our territory, each with different sizes, stories and organizations. Integrations and common directions already exist, which are the will of the actors wishing to go beyond a shared medical project: let us trust to organize structures that are closest to the needs of the patients, while allowing the institutions to maintain autonomous leadership, even in the event of a vacancy during a given period, if necessary. Furthermore, the introduction by amendment of Article 7a, on universal emergency call service, seems inappropriate to us. Even if this proposal is in line with the report "For an emergency recasting pact", submitted in December 2019 by our rapporteur-general, and that, faced with identified congestion, the simplification and coherence of the organisation of emergency appeals must be considered, this provision is far from consensus: experiments are under way, let them have the time to be evaluated. This issue deserves a specific text and an informed debate, which is why we will defend an amendment to delete the article. We also want our discussions to address the issue of staff in our health facilities. Many caregivers feel that they are not able to perform their duties properly, that they are not doing their job properly, and that they are not paying sufficient attention to the patients they are in charge of. We therefore believe that it is essential to take into account this crucial demand of nurses and caregivers in order to improve the quality of care. The stakes are well known: in particular, it is a question of combating a high rate of rotation and absenteeism. In conclusion, I would like to recall our first ambition, which is to finally give us the means to combat a French paradox: a good average health condition, but inequalities that are growing from an early age and that are now going on throughout life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u12	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u13	Announced at the height of the first wave of the covid -19 epidemic, Ségur's consultations were more than expected. What is more normal, when we know the state of our public hospital and, more broadly, of our health system, whose flaws and dysfunctions have appeared, bereaved, in the crisis? The disappointments that have been expressed since July are in keeping with the hopes raised. A first set of budgetary measures has been included in the PLFSS for 2021, which has just been adopted; Despite major advances, misunderstandings and frustrations have been noted, particularly with regard to salary increases, some of which are still excluded from the medical and social professions. You are now presenting us with a bill that is at least heteroclite, which is a translation of the Segur's non-budgetary measures. I must say that I approached her with caution, and then, at the end of her examination in committee, with a frank question: why do you do that? Why this haste while consultations are under way? Of course, this text addresses some of the situations that have been brought before us: I am thinking in particular of the reintroduction of the service as a functional unit or of the provisions allowing for more local adaptations. However, once again, why examine it at the time when a Segur follow-up committee has just been set up; Why has this bill not been foreshadowed in its work? On such an important and structuring subject, consultation is the key to success; But almost all the actors involved have given us their surprise and disappointment. Madam rapporteur, the numerous amendments introduced in committee show that you have wished to take into account the feedback of the actors on the ground: I thank you for that. The deletion of Article 1, which contained a flagship measure in the text, reveals the lack of consensus on the subject and therefore the need to continue the discussion with all professionals. The Libertés et Territoires Group acknowledges, however, that you have been able to listen by proposing to remove from this article the provisions aimed at creating an intermediate medical profession, which was in fact only an empty shell with little precise contours. Thus, the new version of Chapter I is more satisfactory: we hope that it will allow the development of advanced practice and cooperation protocols, which must be advanced. Our group also stresses the need for reflection on the training and remuneration of the medical assistants concerned. The same applies to midwives, who see their skills expanded: this is a good thing, but we cannot continually extend their scope of intervention without improving their status. There are still many obstacles to the full recognition of their medical status, especially in the hospital, which contributes to their ill-being and even anger. I would remind you that their situation has not been dealt with in the context of the Segur. Chapter III, "The Attractiveness of the Position of Hospital Practitioner in Public Health Institutions", has an interesting purpose, but it does not propose concrete solutions for fluidizing the recruitment process. It will, moreover, remain insufficient until we have resolved the problem of pay and working conditions, which brings me to the last point of my intervention: governance. The Ségur recalled the extent of the shortcomings of the public hospital in terms of taking into account the needs of the territory and the representation of the actors on the ground. By means of more administrative and budgetary decisions than medical ones, the organisation of some institutions has lost coherence and no longer meets the needs of patients. Consequently, provisions on the development of HHT remain problematic, as they do not give sufficient room for local initiative. It is necessary to leave the hands of the actors on the ground and the local elected representatives; Above all, integration should not be forced if it is not desired by the parties concerned. In general, governance must lead to better representation of medical and paramedical personnel, and to greater involvement of both users and elected officials. Our group will make proposals in this direction, so that health democracy can really be exercised. That is how we can effectively reintroduce confidence in the improvement of our health care system. The Libertés et Territoires Group will vote on this text at the end of the debate, because the subject is far too important to be satisfied with approximations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u14	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u15	The exceptional health crisis caused by the covid-19 highlighted, in the eyes of all the French, the lack of financial, material and human resources of the public hospital, as well as its weak organisation. In the absence of sufficient funding, he lives on the edge of the razor, saved by successive reforms that struggle to deploy in the territories, sometimes resulting in damage to the quality of care. The main objective of the social security financing laws, as well as the law of 24 July 2019 on the organisation and transformation of the health system, was to remedy these many difficulties by cutting down the partitions between the city medicine, the hospital and the medical and social sector, by leaving the only fee-for-work for hospitals, by creating the conditions for territorial cooperation, cooperation between health professionals, better medical coverage, permitted by the reform of medical studies. These responses, however, have remained insufficient, owing to the ever-increasing pressure on the public hospital, but also to conflicting political choices. In 2019, for example, to health professionals who were protesting to denounce their working conditions and insufficient wages, the Government responded next to it: it involved social security in the repayment of the State debt. The exemplary reaction of these same professionals to the crisis of the covid-19 has changed the situation. It is now a consensus that medical and non-medical care professionals must have their salaries upgraded, and above all be heard. It is from this perspective that the first part of the Ségur de la santé has resulted in agreements on careers, trades and wages, and a second part has been devoted to hospital governance. The bill is not a response to the expectations expressed in the bill, but rather fills some of the gaps in "My Health 2022". While Chapter IV deals with the governance of health facilities, it does not address the general organization of care. I regret this missed opportunity to debate in Parliament the relationship between the deconcentrated administrations of the State, local and regional authorities and health care providers. However, there is a consensus that the RSAs are too far from the territories, and that there is a need to equip their departmental delegations with real decision-making capacity in co-construction: this request was in any case made at each of the four workshops that I had organized in the framework of my departmental Segur. As we try to put caregivers back at the heart of the decision-making bodies of hospitals, we need to get out of a medico-centered outpatient system: in this regard, I welcome the presence in this text of provisions aimed at reaffirming the essential place of each actor in the health system, in particular Article 1a, which relates to the deployment of cooperation protocols in our territories. These are both a genuine tool for cooperation between health professionals and a mechanism for simplifying the exercise. In the eyes of the Member of Parliament and the field doctor I am also, this article will make clear progress in the day-to-day practice of health professionals. Articles 2 et seq. recognize the competences of midwives; In doing so, they will necessarily improve access to certain types of care. I would particularly like to welcome the adoption in committee of Article 2b, which extends the trans-party work initiated by the Albane Gaillot's bill to strengthen the right to abortion. Adopted at first reading by the National Assembly on 8 October, on the occasion of the parliamentary initiative day of the ephemeral and regretted group Ecology democracy solidarity, the aim of this text was to open up to midwives the possibility of practicing instrumental IVG. This is an opportunity for both women and health professionals. Finally, I express my deep regret at the inclusion in this text of Article 7a, which concerns the number assigned to the access to care service. Maintaining it would make the various emergency numbers less legible and would run counter to the real reform to be carried out in this area, namely the establishment of a single number, facilitating cooperation between the public, civil and health security services. Experiments in the direction of a fusion of the 17th, 18th and 15th are promising: the response is gaining in agility and speed. This bill does not embrace the whole of Segur. The authors heard and responded to some of the requests made by health professionals; However, it will still take a long way to ensure that the French have confidence in our care system, so that professionals are sure to be able to do good work, because we will only be able to improve the quality of it in the light of the conditions in which it is carried out and therefore of the human means. This applies to all care occupations, whether they are practiced in hospitals, EHPADs, medical-social institutions or in the city. Financial and functional upgrading is the sine qua non for ensuring that everyone has access to care and quality of care in line with the requirements of the Ségur de la santé: by its very nature, a bill does not lend itself to it. Therefore, the responsibility of the legislator will become immense when we finally begin our work on the future bill on old age and autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u16	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u17	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u18	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 150.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u19	We can be pleased to see the removal of the provisions aimed at the hasty and imprecise creation of an intermediate medical profession, provisions rejected by all actors, as Jean-Pierre Door reminded you. It must be noted, however, that a government report on advanced practice would be of limited interest, even if it had helped to overcome the stalemate in the original wording of article 1. The exercise in advanced practice and the cooperation protocols have been the subject of recent development, which will not allow a proper state of affairs to be established within one year. On the other hand, all healthcare professionals have already pointed out the problems of remuneration, financing of training, attractiveness, advanced practice and who find no concrete solution in this bill. As the titles of the chapters of this text are of great importance to the Government and for the majority of the Government, I propose, by this first amendment, to stress the fact that, in order to make advanced practice more attractive, it is necessary to increase its remuneration. There is a real expectation: if we want to take it into account, let us start with the title of Chapter I.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u20	I call Mrs Stéphanie Rist, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u21	On the form, I am not in favour of increasing the title of this chapter. On the substance, you raise an important question: that is why I will be in favour of Amendment No 479 to Article 1, which deals with the remuneration of medical assistants in advanced practice. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u22	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u23	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u24	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u25	I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u26	Have you been convinced by the minister or by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u27	By the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u28	I knew it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u29	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u30	Madam rapporteur, you have kindly rewritten this article; However, the path is not over. First of all, the article provides that we rely on a report from the Government: we should rely on a parliamentary report, since this text comes from parliamentarians. That is why Cyrille Isaac-Sibille, present here, asked for it in the name of parallelism of forms – mentioned in recent hours, if I understand correctly, about section 24 of another bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u31	Not that in our house!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u32	It is important that parliamentarians, for example Stéphanie Rist, who initiated the bill, can set up a flash mission. Madam chairman of the committee, I would like to hear you on this point: the question was put to you in committee the other day. To continue along this path would honour the Committee on Social Affairs. Second, IPAs, nurses in advanced practice, are not a creation of this text: they go back to the previous quinquennium. I regret that there is no more, that they are not replaced in the event of absence, that the economic model of their profession is no more satisfactory, that their scope is not wider. There are specialties to which they would bring an additional dimension: it is not only I who say it, it is among other things the five conferences of the deans of medical training. Finally, Minister, you specifically proposed at the Deans' Conference that we be able to see how to create this intermediate medical profession. Trust the parliamentarians! You yourself have been a Member of Parliament, the general rapporteur of the social security budget:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u33	But I get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] ... trust those who are here. They are able, in a short time, to make extremely concrete proposals to you. We must not oppose an intermediate medical profession to create from scratch, to come out of nowhere, to APIs, whose effectiveness we have been able to measure in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u35	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u36	Article 1, the pivotal article of the bill, crystallized a large part of the debates in the media and in the trade unions representing the medical profession, ignoring the many structural improvements advocated in particular by Mrs Stéphanie Rist. I thank the Commission for its initiative, as well as all the Members of the Committee on Social Affairs who have amended this text. The rewriting of this article by way of amendment is a lesser evil: it now proposes a state of affairs and will make recommendations on advanced practices and cooperation protocols. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But this legislative vehicle is a missed opportunity. I hope that all the issues raised by my amendments – the one relating to death certificates, declared inadmissible under Article 45 of the Constitution, or the one concerning the extension of vaccination practices to new health professionals such as pharmacists and nurses – can be completed before the end of the mandate, thanks to the postponement of the report at a later date. This is the subject of the two amendments that I tabled in Article 1. The aim is to move forward on a subject that has been under discussion for the last three years in the Chamber, in the ministry and with the relevant orders. Faithful to the ideal of progressism to which you are attached, minister, and removed from purely corporatist reflexes, we could have ambition for non-medical health professionals to allow them to take the social elevator rather than the stairs. Patients have everything to gain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u37	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u38	I believe, Madam rapporteur, that you have listened to everyone, especially those of us who opposed Article 1 and the creation of an intermediate profession. You have indeed acknowledged the need to act differently. The report, which will be presented in a year's time, will provide an opportunity to discuss advanced practices and cooperation protocols. [[Ms. Sereine Mauborgne applauds]] Since some of our amendments have been found inadmissible under Article 45 of the Constitution, I would like to refer to the two subjects they concerned. The first is the development of the careers of health professionals, in particular nurses and physiotherapists, through the validation of the experience gained, which will enable them to have their remuneration improved. The second concerns the creation of a first-recourse nurse consultation. The nurses, who are more than 150,000 in France, are indeed on the front line and could help in medical deserts. As a first resort, they could take care of benign assignments and small wounds before the patient goes to his or her treating physician if necessary. As I know our territories, Minister, you know that they are numerous and competent. In this way, during the conventional negotiations between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Order of Nurses, a consultation should be set up to evaluate advanced practices, beyond the existence of nurses in advanced practices: this would be a medical consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u39	He knows what he's talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u40	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u41	I understand, minister, that you were very committed to the creation of an intermediate medical profession. For my part, I have been one of those whom this new concept has called for. I have taken a long look at the report drawn up in 2011 by Messrs. Henart and Berland, and by Mrs Cadet, on mid-level health occupations, which tended to promote the creation of this new profession. The stumbling block was consultation and prescription: once these medical acts were entrusted to paramedical professions – which would have been called intermediaries – they were moved to the medical field. However, it was made clear, and it was far from being a point of detail, that these new professions should not under any circumstances overlap with other professions. However, since 2011, the situation has changed significantly. In 2016, as part of our health system modernization legislation, advanced practices were incorporated into the public health code. However, they are well placed in intermediate and non-medical occupations. That is why I was firmly opposed to the creation of a new profession: I do not think that the professions should be superimposed, so as not to complicate the health landscape, and that advanced practices should also be given the opportunity of real development. [[Nathalie Sarles applauds]] The rewriting proposed by the rapporteur is in line with what I wanted. We have discussed this a lot, and I hope I too have been somewhat behind the idea of a report. However, this article lacks an essential element: it does not relay the demand for reengineering both of training and of the status of the professions. Indeed, we cannot build on sand. The professions listed in Titles I to VII of Book III of the Public Health Code all have different formations and statutes. Without an essential first step of harmonization, we will not be able to move forward. Finally, advanced practices have often been mentioned about nurses. Yet they are also a perspective for all other professions such as opticians, orthoptists or psychomotricians, among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u42	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 190 and 310, to delete Article 1. I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u43	I wanted to oppose, by this amendment, the stated objective of publishing a report on the intermediate medical professions – or rather, of setting up such a profession. If our colleague Jean-Louis Touraine's amendment proposing a new wording receives a favourable opinion from the Government and the rapporteur – which I can deduce from the presence of sub-amendments – I will withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u44	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 310.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u45	The very sharp decline of the majority during the work in committee points out that the creation of medical aids in advanced practice is not desired by anyone – let alone by the first concerned doctors. To avoid disjudgment, the majority turned Article 1 into a request for a report. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is no big deal to admit that we have been wrong. Go to the end of your logic and be consistent by deleting this article. In the area of health, the Government clearly had more to do than produce such a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u46	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u47	To the extent that I will indeed issue an opinion in favour of Amendment No 479, I would ask Mr Chiche to withdraw his own. As for Mrs Pujol's amendment, I am against it, since the report provided for in Article 1e r seems to me necessary: the subject on which it is a priority in order to finally enter the 21st century. It is time to move forward, because we are far behind the neighbouring countries. It is not a question of questioning the skills of doctors, nor of creating sub-physicians as we have heard, but of allowing the evolution of the professions of medical auxiliaries. This report is one way forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u48	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u49	I will have the opportunity to clarify certain points concerning the concept of an intermediate medical profession which, as has been pointed out, has caused a lot of ink to flow. It is true that words have meaning and that in health, a word is often a crisis. So it's better to clarify things. I heard earlier that the creation of this profession would enable us to solve the problem of medical deserts. Even though I'm not very old, I happen to have met a doctor who knew a health officer himself. In a time not so far away, his health officers were doctors who had taken a shorter course than conventional and university doctors. I would not want to mislead the history of France, but it seems to me that their profession had been created by Napoleon. They could not work not in the cities, but in the countryside. The profession was abolished at the beginning of the last century, so that some of them were still in exercise when doctors who are now very old started. But this model is not what we want to relive, and no one has defended it. I have also heard – it is quite emblematic, Mrs Pujol – that the first ones involved in the intermediate medical professions are doctors. This is not the case: patients are usually the first to be affected by the care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u50	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u51	[[Approval on a few benches of the LaREM Group]] It is for them that we create, structure and reform a health system, just as it is for students that we reform the school. This does not mean that we should not listen to health actors, whether they are doctors or not. Of course, we don't work by robbing each other. While France offers a magnificent offer in terms of healthcare, training and organisation in the field of health, it has not been the most forward-thinking country in terms of interprofessional cooperation. I was just saying that words are often a health crisis. Twelve years ago, we were talking about coordinated care pathways. In this regard, a transfer of skills was first mentioned, and then the term was refuted. The second term was then referred to as "delegation of tasks" and then refuted. Finally, we talked about interprofessional cooperation – a term around which the professions seem to agree. It is not a question of robbing professions and unburdening certain carers of tasks to entrust them to others. It turns out that France has always worked in terms of acts. As vaccination is a short and repetitive act, we wanted to entrust it to other caregivers, such as nurses, and in doing so, we robbed everyone! This is not the objective of Article 1, which aims at an overall reflection. Within the framework of the Ségur agreements, we wanted to entrust the orders of nurses and doctors with a mission to prefigure what could be a new profession in the future, whose duration of training would be intermediate, between three years and ten or twelve years after the baccalaureate, and which would intervene in the hospital sector. This is important because it removes all the arguments that evoke medical deserts or health officers. Indeed, the existence of API is very positive and needs to be strengthened. But I also made a point: in hospital services in which I have worked, I have had particularly experienced nurses, with twenty-five years of seniority, with a large number of externes and interns in medicine – whom they had helped to train – fully aware of all the protocols, without which, for example, thrombolysis could not be performed after a stroke. But it turns out that these nurses cannot prescribe paracetamol if it is not provided for in the computer: the procedure forces them to call the doctor or the intern if the patient complains of headaches. I'm sorry, but that's not consistent! It happened to me – and I say nothing insulting by stressing this – to benefit from the reinforcement of foreign doctors from countries far away, arrived the day before, who, thanks to their doctor's diploma, could prescribe thrombolysis or even chemotherapy. I do not claim that this is not legitimate, but simply that it is possible to renew our collective way of working and to ensure that a person with a great deal of professional experience and all the necessary guarantees, thanks to the validation of the acquired experience, will see his skills evolve further and faster than is the case today with APIs. That is the content of the reflection – we are indeed at the stage of reflection and not of the law – on which it is not for the Government or parliamentarians to be on the front line. The president of the nursing order and that of the doctor's order agreed, a few months ago, to work together on this issue and to consult with the other professions, to see if they could result from their reflections interesting ideas for our health system and, ultimately, for our patients. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I find it very positive that Article 1e r does not endorse in the law an idea which is prefigured by the agreements of the Segur and which has yet to germinate. Perhaps this reflection will lead to nothing. It may finally be said that in France, we do not know how to do what exists in the United States and in many European countries, where we find for example physicists who assist or pratictioners who render many services and simplify the operation of the hospital, for the benefit of the sick. Perhaps it will come to the conclusion that this is not possible in France? Anyway, that's what this is about. Let us put the fears aside and, above all, let us not oppose this reflection to the reform, which must be supported, of nurses in advanced practices. I therefore express an opinion against the two identical deletion amendments. On the other hand, many subsequent amendments to the proposal for a report will receive a favourable opinion from me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u52	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 337, 26, 35, 124, 151, 234 and 232, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 26, 35, 124, 151 and 234 are identical. On Amendment No 337, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 337.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u53	Like Cicero, I am tempted to exclaim "O tempora, o mores! " Indeed, as the walls still resonate with the voices of the rapporteur-general and the minister, who, just a few days ago, explained to us that the reports were useless and that they should never be asked to do so, since the Government was not meant to produce them, it seems that things have changed at all, since we now intend to boast the interest of a Government report. It's great, and I'm looking forward to this reversal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u54	Errare humanum is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u55	That said, even though a report may be useful, which will only be the case if there are two strong elements in it. The first is the date it was handed over because, if we did not have it before the next PLFSS review, it would be useless, and it would have to be placed in the same category as all those who were refused us last week. Moreover, it is imperative that this report deals with the remuneration of advanced practices, such as those of nurses, but also with the remuneration of trainings, protocols and everything related to advanced practice. Failing this, it will only make one more report to set up cabinets for the ministry, which is probably not of great interest to the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u57	Amendment No 26 by Mr Dino Cinieri is being defended. I call Mrs Jeanine Dubie to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u58	Initially, section 1 of this bill was intended to create an intermediate medical profession. This article, lacking clarity, was replaced by a request for a report on the issue of advanced practice and on cooperation protocols. However, it is imperative that we have this report for consideration by the PLFSS for 2022, in order to be able to translate the content of this report into law before the end of this Parliament. Therefore, this amendment is intended to ensure that the Government's report is delivered within six months rather than one year from the publication of this Act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u59	Amendment No 124 by Mrs Gisèle Biémouret is being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u60	Mr Minister, the rapporteur, the expectations are strong to see cooperation really facilitated at last: there is therefore an urgent need to remove the obstacles on the ground which still weigh on the cooperation protocols, despite the encouraging speeches made in Paris. When you were the general rapporteur of the PLFSS, Minister, I told you about the project to install a binome made up of a doctor and a state-qualified nurse – IDE –, both liberals, in Bénamemil, in my constituency, however, the project faces many obstacles. Why not facilitate this mode of cooperation in territories where there is only one doctor and a liberal nurse who does not wish to be paid? Why does the realization of this idea of a medical binomial prove so long and difficult?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u61	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 234.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u62	With your permission, Mr President, I will jointly introduce Amendment No 232. Amendment No. 234 proposes to reduce the deadline for the submission of the report to the Government from one year to six months from the date of publication of this Act. It seems essential for the authors of this amendment to be able to read the flash report no later than the end of the first half of 2021 and before the review of the financial laws by 2022, and to ensure that rapporteurs from the national representation as well as personalities representing all health professionals are appointed. As for Amendment No 232, it is a proposal to withdraw the report so that it can be published within nine months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u63	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u64	All these amendments are intended to advance the deadline for the submission of the report. It does indeed seem to me desirable that we should have this report as soon as possible, which is why I am issuing an opinion in favour of Amendments No 26 and identical, which provide for a postponement within six months of the enactment of the law. I therefore call for the withdrawal of the other amendments under joint discussion. In reply to Mr Bazin on the cooperation protocols, I should like to say that his wish is met by Article 1a, which provides for open cooperation protocols on the city, and which we will examine in a few moments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u65	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u66	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u67	The floor is for Mr Philippe Vigier – who asked me to speak by slamming fingers, that is, with a lot of tact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u68	In any case, fingering!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u69	I would have liked to hear the minister and the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs speak about the proposal I made.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u70	I'll answer it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u71	I understand that, thanks to the identical amendments that have just been tabled by the majority, the report will be delivered in six months instead of one year, which will allow the scheme to become operational in 2022. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of our proposal would have made it possible for Members to take full control of this mechanism, and I am surprised that you are leaving it aside. Can't we take a second to think together about the idea of forming a flash mission?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u72	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor before we vote in public.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u73	The chairman of the committee wanted to answer me, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u74	We are pleased with the rapporteur's decision, because it is indeed essential that we have this report before we consider the next PLFSS, and I hope that this spirit of consensus will guide our work throughout the discussion of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u75	The president of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u76	In fact, it was not Mr. Vigier who asked me in committee about the creation of a flash mission, but Mr. Isaac-Sibille, and then Mrs. Chapelier. I have already indicated that I have taken note of this request and that we will advise at the Bureau meeting to be held on 9 December. I am giving you the same answer today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u77	A little patience!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u78	I put to the vote Amendment No 337.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u79	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 100 Number of votes cast 100 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 33 Against 67
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u80	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 479, 33, 349, 195, 152, 123 and 89, which can be discussed jointly. Amendment No 479 is the subject of three sub-amendments Nos. 512, 506 and 507. Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support Amendment No. 479.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u81	This amendment by the LaREM Group, which follows on from the reflections and debates that have taken place in committee, proposes that the report should be able to incorporate a reflection on training and remuneration issues. In fact, it is crucial for nurses in advanced practice to be insured to receive precise training and progressive remuneration. Advanced practices offer a very positive outlook for the careers of the people concerned, contribute to the filling of the gap between doctors and nurses and allow for the return of medical time to doctors. However, in order for this practice to develop fully, it is important that wage growth be attractive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u82	We come to the discussion of the sub-amendments. I call Mrs Vidal to support sub-amendment No. 512.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u83	Based on Article L.1411-1 of the Public Health Code, this editorial sub-amendment is intended to replace, in Amendment No. 479, the words "care" with the words "health". There is a need to ensure better health security and effective access to prevention and health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u84	Sub-amendments Nos. 506 and 507 of the Committee are drafting. Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u85	As our colleague Jean-Louis Touraine has said, it is important to clearly define the fields of intervention of medical assistants, such as nurses of advanced practice, but also to address the issues of their remuneration and training. Mental health is an area where many nurses have advanced practice. These staff, who have received additional training and are an integral part of the care and support of persons suffering from mental distress, find it difficult to have their level of qualification and the specific role they have to play recognised and taken into account in terms of remuneration. Amendment No 33 seeks to remedy this by specifying the conditions for their training and remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u86	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 349.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u87	We now know that before six months we will have a deadline to shed light on the choices and decisions to be made with regard to advanced practice. Of course, this report must be useful and constructive and, to this end, we want it to address the issues of remuneration, funding of training and the attractiveness of advanced practice. Otherwise, it is feared that this report will remain a purely theoretical document, while we need practical elements. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u88	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 195.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u89	Since the Ségur de la santé held at the national level, but also at the local level – I am thinking in particular of the Ségur départemental that I had organised in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence – the upgrading of diplomas and trades is very much expected. In order to improve attractiveness, the issue of remuneration is essential. As a nurse of advanced practice pointed out, too few nurses are on the path to IPA due to lack of guarantees in this area. By making progress on this issue, we will also improve access to care, which is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u90	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 152.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u91	If you started by making me dream with your last answer, Madam rapporteur, I disagree with Article 1a... While I am talking about a doctor's binome and a liberal IDE, I see that it is stated in paragraph 3 that "these protocols are valid only in the care team or in the territorial health professional community that is on the initiative. Does this mean that your positive answer is only if you match the device with this techno complexity, or can you reassure me by confirming that the simple binome of a doctor and a liberal IDE will soon be able to get in place more easily?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u92	Mrs Gisèle Biémouret has the floor to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u93	Implemented by the Act of 26 January 2016 to modernize our health care system, advanced practice allows medical assistants with diplomas to carry out expanded missions. However, the index grid of these professionals defined in Decree No. 2020-245 of 12 March 2020 appears below their expectations. Thus a nurse in advanced practice beginner is paid up to 2085 euros gross monthly. The purpose of this amendment is to include the remuneration of these professionals within the scope of the report.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u94	Amendment No 89 by Mrs Audrey Dufeu is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u95	They propose to extend the scope of the report to a reflection on training and remuneration, which we believe is essential in order to continue the progress made in the intermediate medical professions. The committee gave an opinion in favour of Amendment No 479, subject to the adoption of sub-amendments Nos 512, 506 and 507. We will therefore request the withdrawal of the other amendments, which we feel are satisfied with this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u97	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u98	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u99	He's got things to say about article 24!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u100	On behalf of the GDR Group, I would like to point out that we are naturally very much in favour of the evaluation report taking into account training and remuneration, which are an essential dimension.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u101	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u102	I simply wonder about the original wording of the bill, which gives a little sense that the conclusions of the report are set out in advance. But we need the state of the place to be established with a look that is not oriented a priori.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u103	Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u104	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u105	The FI Group had tabled forty-nine amendments, but we only have twelve, because the others were considered horsemen. For once, Minister, we will agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u106	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u107	It's a rare enough thing for me to call your attention to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u108	It looks like article 24!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u109	On all these benches, we agree on the importance of the training and remuneration of nurses in advanced practice. It should be noted that the average working life of nurses is six years. Some of our amendments concerned the training of nurses, paramedics and paramedics. It is important to stress the need to review the conditions for access to nursing training institutes – IFSI – and to nursing training institutes – IFAS – and to re-establish the competitions: these institutes must welcome people who really want to do these studies. Why impose them on people who do not want to follow them? If you want nurses to go to the careers of advanced practice nurse, state-graded surgery nurse – IBODE –, state-graded anaesthetist nurse – IADE – they need to be motivated and have received a good initial training as caregiver, ambulance attendant or nurse to move to other careers. This aspect also deserves to be studied, and that is why we will vote for these very important amendments. Just don't forget the upstream formations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u110	I have before me two amendments, Nos 90 and 194, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u111	This amendment echoes the amendments mentioned by Mrs Fiat. I hope that I will not be told that he is satisfied with Amendment No 479 because that is not the case at all. Mr Touraine's amendment concerns training and remuneration; It does not deal with the re-engineering of the training of medical assistants, therefore, with access to these trainings, their content, the repositories for access to them, the statutory reforms and the universalisation, which are the subject of our amendment. The Bologna Agreements, signed in 1999, are totally lagging behind in the case of paramedical professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u112	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 194.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u113	Beyond the repositories, it is important to take into account the creation of initial and continuing training for these professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u115	Mrs Chapelier, you have managed to convince me: I will give an opinion in favour of your amendment No 90, which deals with subjects which have given rise to lengthy discussions. As for Amendment No 194, we are satisfied that there are already training courses. I would therefore ask you to withdraw it, Mrs. Bagarry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u116	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u117	Mrs Chapelier, you want to include in the report on advanced practice and cooperation protocols an assessment of the needs for re-engineering of professions. I would be tempted to tell you that this aspect is taken into account by the agreements of Ségur, which carry out a great deal of work on reengineering, but I have no reason to deprive you of a supplementary report on the matter. My opinion will therefore be in favour of your amendment No 90. If I have understood your amendment correctly, Mrs Bagarry, it is intended to add expertise on the advisability of extending advanced practice training to professions other than nursing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u118	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u119	We're talking about number 194, aren't we?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u120	Maybe we could set up an independent commission?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u121	If that is not your objective of your amendment, I will ask you to withdraw it. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u122	I call Mr Borowczyk to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u123	We hope that the report will also assess the desirability of attaching a transfer of responsibilities to the delegation of tasks. I have heard what the minister has said, but there is certainly a need to examine the fluidity of the routes and the interconnections between professions, but there is also a need to study precisely the responsibilities of each profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u125	Unfavorable opinion. We don't necessarily understand what you mean by devolution. The nurse in advanced practice is already responsible for the actions he carries out in the course of his duties. In the common core to lay the foundation for nursing in advanced practice, there is a whole module called "Responsibility, Ethics, Ethics". Request for withdrawal, failing which adverse notice is given.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u127	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u128	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u129	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] I will not withdraw this amendment. It is motivated by a field experience which has made me understand the importance of defining responsibilities for each profession in order to avoid any overflowing on the perimeter of the complementary professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u130	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u131	I do not understand why my amendment No 228 has fallen. It seemed interesting to me to include the vaccine route in the report. We have been awaiting the opinion of the High Health Authority on this subject for almost two and a half years. At a time when we are thinking about how best to organize covid -19 vaccination, it is important to look back on this journey, which involves several health professionals, pharmacists and nurses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u132	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u133	Mr Borowczyk said that his amendment had been based on field experience. A report submitted to the Government.... pardon, handed over to Parliament by the Government – decisively, we must not reverse the roles. As far as the transfer of responsibilities is concerned, the law in force seems clear to me. If, however, you consider that there are uncertainties, which you are echoing as a parliamentarian, I will change my position and give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u134	Amendment No 233 by Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, which is the subject of the Government's sub-amendment No 508, is being defended. The Minister has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 508.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u135	Amendment No 233 aims to improve cooperation in health policy in national education. We are in favour of this, subject to the adoption of our sub-amendment, which states that this cooperation is carried out between all the actors involved, teachers and other professionals, in the promotion of the health of the child in school, whose development within educational paths is fundamental.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u137	Opinion in favour of No 233 subject to the adoption of the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u138	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I do not know who to give the floor: Mr Bazin raises his finger, but it is Mr Door who stands up. This mechanics is quite subtle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u139	Excuse us for being here, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u140	This amendment may be of interest, but it should be remembered that the medical demographics in schools are terribly low. How do you want to cooperate with absentees?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u141	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 196.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u142	The cooperation, the protocols, the understanding of each person's trades work from the initial medical training. It is necessary to set up a common training package for the different health professions in order to learn how to work better together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u144	Unfavorable, even if I share your wish to promote the transversality of training. In the framework of the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, we have adopted an experimental scheme to encourage exchanges between training courses; the corresponding implementing decree was published on 11 May, and the first experiments started. However, the universalization of all paramedical professions by 2022 seems premature.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u146	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u147	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u148	All students share the desire to cooperate; It would therefore be interesting to generalise the approach as early as 2022, rather than simply experimenting – especially since universities are already proposing such initiatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u149	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 5, 138, 171, 186, 327 and 446. Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u150	It was deposited by Christophe Naegelen. In order to respond quickly to the real needs of patients and to make the system more efficient, it is important to strengthen the coordination and unbundling of healthcare professionals, already competent, in their daily exercise, with interoperable tools. The amendment aims to strengthen the recognition of healthcare teams made up of health professionals chosen by patients. These teams could share information about the same patient, as long as it is strictly necessary for coordination, continuity of care and medical-social and social follow-up. The information would then be deemed to be entrusted by the patient to the entire team.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u151	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support Amendment No. 138, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u152	In order to respond quickly to the real needs of patients and to make the system more efficient, there is an urgent need to strengthen the coordination and unbundling of healthcare professionals in their day-to-day exercise. Amendment No 138 corrected, tabled by Dino Cinieri, aims to reinforce the recognition of healthcare teams trained by healthcare professionals chosen by patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u153	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u154	It gives me the opportunity to reiterate a question that is important to me. For the past two years, we have been working hard to achieve the liberal doctor- liberal IDE: we are referred to firms whose services are billed for five digits, which are certainly funded by the ARS, but take time to make emerge a model... But it's not that complicated: it's just a cooperation protocol between a doctor and a liberal IDE who want to get involved in a territory. In concrete terms, how will Article 1a, which is subject to various arrangements, make matters easier? I have the feeling that we will still have to wait; It is a pity, at a time when we want to speed up the cooperation protocols.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u155	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 186.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u156	It aims to respond to patient care needs in a coordinated, community-based manner. The coordination of health professionals will contribute to the efficiency of the response: this flows from the source.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u157	Amendments Nos 327 by Mr Bernard Perrut and 446 by Mr Paul-André Colombani are defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u158	Your concern seems to me to be satisfied because the care teams already exist: provided for in article L. 1110-12 of the Public Health Code, they bring together professionals who directly participate, for the benefit of the same patient, in the realization of a diagnostic, therapeutic, compensation of disability, relief of pain or prevention of loss of autonomy. The patient may recognize these professionals as members of the care team, for the purpose of carrying out consultations and acts prescribed by a doctor to whom he has entrusted his care. The information is then deemed to be entrusted by the patient to all members of the care team. This seems to me to be a full response to your concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u159	That doesn't answer it at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u160	These cooperation protocols require the physician and nurse to participate either in a territorial health professional community or in a primary care team. I would add that for the past three years, the majority and the Government have sought to promote a cooperative and coordinated exercise in medicine, rather than an isolated exercise. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u162	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u163	In law, primary care teams already exist to cooperate and share information. Conventional negotiations are also under way to improve the performance and functioning of these teams. You would like to create coordinated care teams that would have exactly the same missions, under a different name. I have a doubt, because this type of amendment, supported by several parliamentarians, sometimes meets the expectations of a professional body: this can happen. But I would like to understand the meaning of this, because there is already an identical device, which simply bears another name. I call for the withdrawal of these amendments, which I feel are satisfactory; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u164	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u165	In "Ma santé 2022", we wanted to highlight the CPTS, encourage them, by having them funded by the ARS among others. These amendments would give strength to this ambition, as they encourage off-shoring and joint work. Go ahead, it doesn't eat bread! We start from the fact that the mesh is not complete – hopefully it will be by the end of 2022. These amendments are very relevant, and Mrs Rist knows that very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u166	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u167	Let me move in the mood, Mr President: the Republican Group had tabled a number of amendments in direct connection with the subject under discussion, which dealt, among other things, with the guidance consultations carried out by nurses. All these amendments were rejected by the meeting department on the grounds that they were horsemen. This is an extremely restrictive interpretation of the notion of ridership, and very detrimental to parliamentary work. Our amendments could usefully have enriched the text: the committee has validated them, voted on them, and they are deleted overnight, when it comes to sittings!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u169	I take note of your mood movement, which has remained very suitable, admit it. If your amendments have been declared inadmissible, it has been considered that they have no direct or indirect connection to the subject matter of the text – as you know, in your heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u170	I call Mr Bouyx to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u171	The administrative tasks of establishing a primary care team are particularly time-consuming for health professionals; They can have a negative effect on the deployment of such teams, and therefore on the coordination of healthcare professionals and even on the response to patients. My amendment proposes that the patient be the trigger for the coordination of the healthcare professionals he has chosen. The treating physician, the corresponding pharmacist and the nurse chosen by the patient would thus constitute an immediate and patient-specific primary care team; it would coordinate to ensure its follow-up. Therefore, treatment protocols could be organized between healthcare professionals: renewal of certain treatments for six months, with control of constants or therapeutic objectives by the pharmacist or nurse; hospital entrances and exits; management of complex routes or patients with specific chronic conditions; follow-up of elderly people in loss of autonomy. This would also allow us to reflect on the ways in which each profession is paid, so that they are less linked to acts. The explanatory memorandum to the bill states: "The health crisis has revealed an urgent need for the simplification of our health system [...]. This simplification will lead to a more responsive and efficient system thanks to strong and necessary measures." Such an objective should apply to primary care teams. My amendment proposes to amend Article L. 1411-11-1 of the Public Health Code to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u173	You ask that the patient be the trigger for the coordination of healthcare professionals. We have just had this debate: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u175	I understand the principle of your request, but we are far from it. At this point, we encourage health professionals in the city to work more with each other, building on the structures in place: CPTS, primary care teams, etc. It works very well. We mobilize all actors to cooperate and coordinate more closely. Often, the process is based on a pharmacist, a doctor or an activist nurse, who devotes time and energy to it; Thank you to them, without whom these initiatives would not exist. Your proposal goes beyond that: it would allow a patient to choose a pharmacist, a doctor and a nurse at home, and to get a finger slap to coordinate and work together. In common practice, however, these professionals are not always led to work together. The risk would be to create as many coordination teams as patients: it would be a complicated maelstrom. Once again, I understand the concept, but we're not there. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u176	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u177	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u178	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u179	Mr Minister, I would point out to you, but I know that you have nothing to do with it, that the hospital in Oloron-Sainte-Marie, which is part of the territorial centre of Pau, has still not received interns, whereas fourteen or fifteen have been assigned to the centre of Pau and five to the nearby hospital in Orthez. Yet, a few years ago, the hospital in Oloron, which stretches over valleys that represent a living pool of 80000 people, was successful. A commission, scientists, the director of the hospital centre felt that training interns could no longer be sent to such hospitals at the risk of discouraging them from the profession of doctor or surgeon. I wonder if, once again, your administration is not playing tricks on you. In any case, it has now been more than two months since the UAS left every night without any doctor. Fortunately, so far there have been no problems. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the unions of young doctors and hospital practitioners, if they were very pleased to have been invited to the Ségur de la santé, do not find themselves at all in the creation of an intermediate profession to which we will return.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u180	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 354.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u181	SRAs have become real mini-states in the state and sometimes seem to be disconnected from structural problems on the ground. The protocols for cooperation between health professionals will be a step forward if they extend the scope of the paramedics' activities while ensuring the quality and safety of care. Health professionals are responsible people who are perfectly able to modify and improve protocols by guaranteeing the quality and safety requirements of care. They are already actively involved in their development into multidisciplinary working groups in our hospital structures. You know that, we know that. We are asking here to curb the ardour of the ARS. This amendment provides that the Director-General of the RSA cannot terminate a cooperation protocol arbitrarily, but that a first notice of formal notice and an opinion of the High Health Authority must precede the final decision to discontinue the protocol. A minimum period of three months allows healthcare professionals to improve their protocol to ensure the quality and safety of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u183	I am not in favour of your amendment for reasons of safety and quality of care. I would point out that the simplification provided for in Article 1e ra makes it possible to trust the health actors in the territories, who decide on a cooperation protocol. The simple agreement between professionals to cooperate makes it possible to launch this protocol, the ARS and the HAS giving only a posteriori notice. This is therefore a genuine transformation and simplification of these cooperation protocols. Difficulties had existed for more than ten years now. I think we should rather welcome this progress, but a posteriori opinion is still needed in order to preserve the quality and safety of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u185	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u186	On Article 1e r bis, I am seized by the La République en marche group of Members of the European Parliament of a request for a public ballot. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u187	Madam rapporteur, you are right that Article 1a is well in the direction of simplification, but that is not enough. As a prerequisite for the development of cooperation protocols, you are laying down the existence of a CPTS: once this framework has been laid down, it would just be enough to make agreements. I come back to my very concrete example – sorry but these are problems on the ground – of the doctor and the liberal IDE. Today, with the ARS, it's a real mess. The framework that you propose through this article 1e r bis is not going to solve anything, it is clear: to make the CPTS the alpha and the omega of cooperation cannot work, given the cumbersomeness of the system and its perimeter, unsuitable for the reality of the territories. It is obvious that it needs to be relaxed. All we have to do is do a survey: is there anyone here whose territory is covered by CPTS? Some are pregnant, but it takes a lot of time! If cooperation protocols are to be developed, this framework must be made more flexible. We don't have the same portage in every territory. In some cases there is an extremely important hospital. Some have local health contracts – CLS – because the RSA wanted it this way, but there are communities of municipalities that do not have CLS. On metropolitan perimeters, the CPTS operate, but the rural territories to which this structure is imposed are different when they have nothing in common. I therefore invite you to relax this framework in order to allow common sense cooperation adapted to the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u188	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 356.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u189	While telehealth has certain advantages, it also presents risks, such as widening the digital divide or security gaps. It also risks developing a health gap between health facilities that will benefit from the effective presence of practitioners and those who will only have access to certain specialists through telehealth. Telehealth is the promise of a medicine that emancipates the territories, allowing patients to benefit from medical consultations anywhere. However, we believe that it is important for the maintenance of quality medicine to guarantee a care path that remains connected to the territory. The risk of off-site teleconsultation benefits is to transform the physician into a simple provider of prescriptions on demand. Telehealth must not become a palliative to the failure of the deployment of community medicine and territories. In the absence of objective data guaranteeing the same quality of care between present-day medicine and telemedicine, this amendment aims to favour the effective presence of practitioners rather than their mere availability through telehealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u190	I put Rule 1a to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u191	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 76 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u192	I call Mrs Vidal to support Amendment No. 502.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u193	The National Committee on Interprofessional Cooperation is responsible for the strategy, promotion and deployment of interprofessional cooperation. It proposes the list of national protocols to be developed and deployed, supports health professionals in the development of these protocols and gives an opinion on their funding through health insurance. The Committee is composed of representatives of the National Union of Health Insurance Funds, the High Health Authority, the Ministers responsible for Social Security and Health, and the regional health agencies. The purpose of this amendment is to involve the National Union of Health Professionals, the UNPS, the only interprofessional institution, in the work of this Committee. I would remind you that UNPS is speaking for twelve health professions, 400,000 liberal health professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u194	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor to support Amendment No. 266.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u195	After Mr Grelier, it is my turn to have a little bit of mood, since most of those in our amendments which were in the interest of this amendment were considered inadmissible. The aim is to transform the title of Chapter II on the evolution of the professions of "midwife and masseur-kinesitherapist", which would become "midwife and certain medical assistants". I had indeed understood the extension of the text to masseur-kinesitherapists as an open door to the evolution of other professions, such as optician or psychomotrician, towards the status of regulated profession. Some of Mr Potterie's amendments, for example, had this objective. That was the justification for this proposal to amend the title.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u196	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u197	This article is particularly important. It is in line with what we do with My Health 2022: to allow for a better consideration and a rise in the competence of certain medical professions, including midwives. Midwives are the first recourse in women's care. They detect them, they accompany them, but unfortunately, all too often, their skills are not sufficiently known to all women or sufficiently recognized. The objective of this article is to facilitate the care of women by allowing a better recognition of the work of midwives. [[Mr SylvainTemplierapplaudit]] The committee, under the aegis of the rapporteur, wanted them to be able, for example, to renew work stoppages or sick stoppages, and to ensure that their powers were better respected. This is what we intend to continue to do in the context of this sessional review to ensure that all women ultimately have better access to care throughout the country, and that midwives who are their first recourse to care are fully recognized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u198	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u199	Without expressing my disappointment again, I should like to point out that the Minister and the rapporteur were, just as much as I and my colleagues, surprised by the inadmissibility of our amendments. They were totally in line with the spirit of this article. I repeat, it was a matter of developing certain paramedical professions, certain healthcare professions, and giving them broader skills. These amendments responded to a rather immediate request, while the follow-up to the report which was previously voted on will only come much later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u200	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u201	I hope that these arrangements will affect midwives, because for the time being they cannot be said to feel at least taken into account. However, in the territories where maternity services have had to shut down voluntarily or by force – it has even happened that their doors have been closed with chains so that the parturients cannot access them – they are midwives, who, in the absence of doctors, are obliged to intervene, sometimes on the side of the road, when a unhappy woman has not been able to reach the hospital: at home, you sometimes have to drive three hours before reaching it. When I see what they have at their disposal to work, the lack of consideration for them, I very much hope that what you are proposing to us, Minister, will be such as to devote their qualifications and give them some hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u202	On Article 2, I have before me a request for a public vote by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 135, 183 and 475, to delete Article 2. I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u203	This amendment by Dino Cinieri is indeed intended to delete this article, which allows midwives to prescribe work stoppages for a period of more than 15 days. However, if a 15-day stoppage of work constitutes, in the case of a pregnancy, a stoppage which can be regarded as classic, beyond that one is clearly in a pathological situation whose follow-up, and therefore the decision as to the duration of the stoppage, must be the responsibility of either the obstetrician or the attending doctor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u204	Identical Amendments Nos 183 by Mrs Brigitte Kuster and 475 by Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u205	Mr Cordier, a pregnant woman suffering from a sciatica, an example that I know especially as a rheumatologist...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u206	Then I'll ask you for a consultation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u207	... sometimes needs to stop for three weeks and this is not a pathological pregnancy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] It is important to introduce flexibility and to have confidence in the ability of these professionals to take steps in the delivery of these stops rather than forcing the patient to return to the doctor. By this provision we simplify the lives of the patients and trust the midwives. The opinion is therefore very unfavourable on this proposal for deletion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u209	Sagewife is a medical profession. As medical professionals, midwives and maiuticians are justified in prescribing. Today, midwives have the possibility to prescribe up to 15 days of stopping illness in the case of a pregnancy that is not pathological. A pathological pregnancy requires consultation with an obstetrician doctor to ensure appropriate follow-up. Last year, some 20,000 work stoppages were prescribed by midwives in the case of non-pathological pregnancies, for an average of nine days. In half of the cases, patients had to go to a doctor to be prescribed an extension of their stay, for reasons related either to their profession or to intercurrent problems not directly related to pregnancy, but justifying that future parturients stay a little longer at home. Why this 15-day limit? There is no abuse and it would respond to a demand from midwives and patients, and even a large number of doctors, who see no malice at all. For the whole of last year, these judgments cost less than €6 million. When the situation requires, a pregnant woman should not be forced to make a new appointment with a doctor to confirm what her midwife told her a few days earlier. I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendments in the light of these explanations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u210	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u211	I will not support these amendments. All these professions are important: doctors are not the "knowing ones", only able to prescribe sick leave. I would like to add my mood to all those of the evening, regretting in my turn that our amendments have been declared inadmissible. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the best obstetrician in the world will not be able to practice the most beautiful Caesarean section in the world without being assisted by the world's best ASH – hospital service agents – and if he cannot practice in an aseptic delivery room. It's teamwork, and we're learning together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u212	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u213	I find it regrettable that this article speaks only of the so-called "noble" professions, when all medical professions are noble. For example, we will not talk about child care workers who receive the child once he is born, nor about caregivers who accompany the mothers until the birth, before the midwife intervenes. I think it's really a shame. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, if I often yell at Mr. Minister by accusing him of doing nothing, or nothing good, I learned that he had intervened so that the caregiver threatened with expulsion for lack of a residence permit could remain on French soil. We must know how to recognize a good action, and I thank you, Minister, for helping this carer stay in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u214	Mr Pierre Cordier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u215	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. In view of the de facto alliance that took place this evening between France and you – I am joking... – and above all of these pertinent arguments, my colleagues will not be mad at me to withdraw their amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u216	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u217	Identical amendments No 236 by the rapporteur and 275 by Mrs Annie Chapelier are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u218	I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u219	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 91 Number of votes cast 91 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 88 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u220	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 2. Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor to support Amendment No. 435.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u221	In line with Article 2, this amendment on bi-membership aims to allow doctoral students in the maieutic sector to simultaneously pursue their teaching, research and professional activities, as pharmacists, dentists and doctors can already do. Like these professions, this would allow them to optimally combine theory and practice, in order to better update their knowledge, in the service of the teaching they provide.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u223	It is indeed essential to open up the possibility for doctoral students in the Maieutical sector to pursue their professional activity and their teaching and research activities at the same time. Your request, however, seems to me satisfied since, since 2019, a Maieutical section has been created within the UNC – National Council of Universities. Midwives can now qualify as a teacher-researcher in maieutics. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u225	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u226	I have before me two amendments, Nos 106 and 44, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u227	The Segur of Health held this summer did not improve the status of midwives. However, the latter could play a much more important role in the practice of the majority of medical procedures in gynaecology, obstetrics and orthogenia. My colleague Castellani, on behalf of whom I am defending this amendment, proposes that midwives should be given the status of first-recourse professionals, enabling them to follow up throughout the specific health path of pregnant women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u228	Amendment No 44 by Mrs Marine Brenier is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u229	You propose that midwives be allowed to follow up in orthogenia. With precise conditions to be laid down in this respect, I express an unfavorable opinion at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u231	Article 34d of the PLFSS for 2021, adopted earlier, provides for an experiment to extend the powers of midwives with regard to voluntary termination of pregnancy – IVG – instrumental. Within this framework, the necessary conditions will be laid down by decree to ensure the quality and safety of care, in particular with regard to the training and professional experience expected of midwives. This experiment will then be evaluated, as decided by Parliament, before this new competence in orthogenia, which is the subject of the amendment, can be generalized. To the extent that the experiment has just been voted in the framework of the PLFSS and that the law will be promulgated by 31 December 2020 at the latest, we propose that you stick to this framework. For this reason, I am asking for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion. The proposed direction, however, is the right one – it is the one we are taking.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u232	I have before me two amendments, Nos 430 and 60, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor to support Amendment No. 430.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u233	It aims to allow midwifery students to perform replacements as caregivers in their second year and as childcare assistants in their third year. The presence of these students in the gynaecology or paediatric services has indeed become indispensable for the proper functioning of certain institutions during the health crisis or summer holidays. However, due to the current legal vacuum, the ability of these students to perform such replacements depends on the goodwill of the RSAs and hospital centres. As a result, according to a census carried out by the National Association of Midwifery Students, 53.1 per cent of them are not allowed to perform such replacements. Non-recognition of this equivalence leads to risks of exceeding skills and illegal remuneration, and raises obvious questions of the civil liability of students. The amendment is intended to fill this legal gap.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u234	Amendment No 60 by Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour is being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u235	I am, in my personal capacity, extremely in favour of the idea advocated by these amendments. However, they fall within the regulatory area. A decree already authorizes the granting of the State diploma of assistant in childcare to midwifery students. Request for withdrawal, or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u237	I would add that the department is currently undertaking regulatory engineering work to update equivalencies and to provide all health students who may be affected with bridge opportunities. This device is very useful. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the students in Maieutics, who are currently being mobilised in many hospitals in the context of the health crisis, in particular by acting as caregivers. These replacements are quite possible. The evidence is that they already exist. However, it is through regulation, not legislation, that they must be organised. Rather, it would be counterproductive to include such a mechanism in the legislation, the latter being less frequently revised than the regulation, which is constantly evolving. I confirm that it is very valuable that students in the various health sectors can benefit from equivalencies and correspondence in order to carry out missions. Turns out I did it myself when I was a student.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u238	It was a long time ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u239	I am therefore very supportive of this, but once again it really falls within the regulatory field. Request for withdrawal: Failing, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u240	Has your amendment been withdrawn, Mrs Janvier?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u241	If the minister, who has control over the regulatory field, undertakes to clarify the current situation so that replacements no longer depend on the goodwill of the SRAs, I agree to withdraw it. However, I hope that the new system will be operational in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u242	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 229.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u243	I would add to what has just been said that the fact of being able to work in their profession – or in any case in their professional field – during studies is of great importance for students: three and a half years of training are sometimes long to bear for families and students, to whom this possibility also makes it possible to finance their studies. I can testify to that. Amendment No. 229 is intended to include in the law the special role of midwives in the conduct of national primary health care policies. As the National Council of the Order of Midwives notes: "In view of the 1000-day report and in line with the recommendations of the High Health Authority, it is essential that the obstetrical path be coordinated by a health professional in order to improve the care of pregnant women. Thus, the referent midwife will help parents build their birth project and make the connection with maternity, reduce the passages to emergencies by being available and listening in a climate of trust, and make effective the antenatal part of the return home support program – PRADO – by organizing upstream maternity outings. Her role is complementary to that of the doctor but does not substitute for her, since she exercises in the field of physiology. » Isn't it time for the role and skills of midwives to be taken more into account? This is the purpose of this amendment, which was worked out with the order of midwives: it aims to ensure that, in any situation which does not require the use of the expertise of an obstetrician gynaecologist or gynaecologist, the patient can, as a first step, access reproductive care by meeting a midwife.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u244	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u245	You want to allow midwives to participate in primary care and care. I share your concern: it is essential that women know that they can approach a midwife for regular follow-up. However, midwives should be encouraged to participate in primary care teams or in local professional health cooperation. To answer the questions raised earlier by some of our colleagues, the Centre-Val de Loire region – probably because it has the lowest medical density – has more than twenty CPTS. The latter, which have shown their effectiveness in cooperation but above all in the quality of care of patients, are multiplying in sight: it takes a little less than six months to create a CPTS, which is not so long. This opens up access to coordinators, aids and incentives. I invite you to encourage nurses and doctors in your territories to engage in STCPs. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u247	This is a lengthy amendment, and I will try to respond to it in substance. There is a difference between believing that midwives can participate in primary care – this is the case: they can be sought as a first resort, freely, and follow-up – and considering that "treating midwives" should be designated instead of treating physicians, which seems to me to be the subject of your amendment as I understand it in the first analysis. If this were the case, the stated objective would seem to me to be less good, as the concept of treating physician implies a multi-purpose and accomplished care of the patient, in connection with one or more pathologies. However, if a midwife is perfectly competent in gynaecological monitoring, sexual health and contraception, she is not competent for a multitude of other pathologies: a midwife cannot play a role as a treating physician for a patient who has an angina, nephretic colic or any other symptom. This would create a form of legal confusion. That is why I am tempted to ask for the amendment to be withdrawn or, failing that, to deliver an unfavourable opinion, even if I consider the possibility of adopting a different wording at second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u248	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u249	It was a question of designating referent midwives, but we will indeed be able to rework the amendment before the next reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u250	I call Mr Guillaume Chiche to support Amendment No. 204.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u251	In my turn, I would like to point out that we had the unpleasant surprise that many amendments were deemed inadmissible, without understanding why, since they did not fall under Article 40 of the Constitution or another provision. This is a great pity, because many of these amendments were intended to improve the career and working environment of midwives: this bill was well suited to address these issues. I come to Amendment No 204, by which we propose to transform, on an experimental basis and for a period of three years, the long-term consultation "sexually transmitted infections/contraception" into a long-term consultation "sexual health". Since the current system is reserved for girls between the ages of 15 and 18, the aim is to extend it to all young people, since the burden of contraception must obviously be borne by both girls and boys. That is the point of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u253	He was satisfied that an amendment to that effect had been adopted in the framework of the PLFSS for 2021. So it's a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u255	Same opinion. It was voted this afternoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u256	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u257	I note that we agree on the direction. However, the experiment requested in this amendment is three years, whereas in the amendment tabled by Mrs Fabre in the framework of the PLFSS it is twelve months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u258	Mr President, it seems to me that the amendment was adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u259	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u260	Madam rapporteur, you told us that the CPTS functioned perfectly in your constituency, but that is not the case in all the territories. I take the example of the project of a two-way train between a nurse and a doctor in my constituency, of which I spoke to you earlier: they were told to set up a CPTS, stating that it was necessary to do so on a large scale but that they should not worry because we would recruit a study office, a consulting firm that would accompany them, for a sum of five digits... The project is under way, meetings have been held for several months, but finally we are not making any progress. Of course, the health crisis has gone through this, but we can see that it is difficult to achieve it. Above all, there is another problem: some territories have CPTSs or CLSs that do not correspond to the actual cooperation territories. I am thinking, for example, of a permanence of care provided, in my constituency, by pharmacists in a space defined in a coherent way but belonging to three different CLS territories and three different CPTS territories. I let you measure the incoherence of these technocratic devices, disconnected from the reality of the field. Professionals should be given the opportunity to work together – some are already doing so – but if such cooperation is to develop very quickly, it should not be made conditional on the existence of XXL-sized CPTS, which are slow to emerge. These CPTS must not represent the alpha and omega of our health cooperation policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u262	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor to support the deletion amendments Nos 133 and 184, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u263	In view of the statistical data you mentioned earlier on work stoppages exceeding 15 days prescribed by midwives, my colleagues' amendments, Mr Cinieri and Mrs Kuster, have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u264	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u265	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u266	I wanted to talk about this article because we are in danger of seeing a debate that we have already had twice in the House. So, rather than addressing the substance of the subject, I want to talk about the form. The Government's amendment No. 509 is intended to delete this article. We would thus go back to the mechanism which we voted in committee and which allows midwives to perform surgical abortions after having received adequate training. Parliament has already voted twice in favour of this measure, a first on the occasion of Mrs Gaillot's bill, and a second, in the form of an experiment, at the PLFSS voted today. Perhaps we could avoid parliamentary chaos as sometimes happens when the same provision is the subject of multiple texts. In the hope that the minister will hear my appeal, and even if it is not usual, I therefore invite the Government to withdraw its amendment so that this third vote will confirm the two previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u267	I have before me several deletion amendments Nos 509, 36, 62, 331, 421 and 448.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u268	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u269	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 509.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u270	It is intended to abolish Article 2b, introduced in committee, which provides for the extension of the powers of midwives to instrumental abortion, up to ten weeks of pregnancy. It is not that we are not in favour of this mechanism: I am in favour of it, as I have already said on the occasion of the examination of two different texts. But we must leave its full place to Article 34d of the PLFSS, which was voted on in final reading just now and which provides for an experiment to extend the competences of midwives to the instrumental IVG in health facilities. We are therefore going to introduce this mechanism, but through an experiment, set up thanks to the work carried out by parliamentarians in this House. For if of course I wish a long life to Stéphanie Rist's bill, and hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible, I am sure that the PLFSS will be promulgated by the end of the year, which will be operational and effective by the beginning of next year. In order to avoid any telescopage – because, in general, when two texts that are not at the same level of maturity provide for the same provisions simultaneously, nothing is moving – I propose to remain at your disposal as part of the PLFSS. For my part, I am committed to ensuring that the experiment begins without delay, once the operational protocols have been defined. I am confident that this experiment will lead, if necessary, to a generalization earlier than if the provision were adopted in the context of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u271	Identical amendments Nos 36 by Mr Dino Cinieri and 62 by Mr Marc Le Fur are being defended. Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 331.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u272	It is intended to delete this article added in committee. Surgical abortion is a very special gesture that must remain in the hands of doctors alone. This article demonstrates once again the ideological approach of the authors of the amendment in committee on this subject, an approach already denounced during the examination of the bill aimed at strengthening the right to abortion. Be sure that our compatriots absolutely do not need ideology to get out of the health and economic, and even social, crisis that is affecting them today. I would add that if the training of gynaecological obstetricians lasts eleven years, it may not be by chance. It is surely an offence for them to want to delegate an act that affects life to another health professional – and yet it is a health professional who tells you so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u273	Very bad ideology.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u274	Identical Amendments Nos 421 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 448 by Mr Paul-André Colombani are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u275	As this article has been adopted in committee, I am in complete consistency against its deletion and therefore against the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u276	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u277	I had not planned to intervene on this issue, but I would like to react to what I have heard. I have the impression that the debate on abortion is constantly coming back, which leaves me blocked. It is not such a debate that is played through this article – at least I hope so. For my part, I will follow the rapporteur's opinion and support what has been voted on in the Committee on Social Affairs. I voted for the bill to strengthen the right to abortion. It is time to facilitate women's access to abortion throughout the country. It cannot be hindered in any way. Midwives are fully competent to practice GVI within a highly regulated and regulated framework, otherwise parliamentarians would not have adopted this provision, for the first time in the GVI Bill and for the second time in the Committee's consideration of this text. Parliamentarians know very well how to make a law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u278	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u279	This article supplements the evolution of the midwifery profession. I have tabled Amendment No 267 which seeks to remedy suffering for them by giving them a genuine medical status. Just as midwives know very well in which situations they should use an obstetrician, with whom they work in parallel during childbirth, they have the discernment required to know in which cases they can themselves prescribe, as voted in committee, the additional examinations necessary for the testing of sexually transmitted infections – IST – and in which cases they should instead refer patients to a specialist doctor because such a decision exceeds their level of competence. This amendment will therefore complement the provisions that have already been adopted on the screening and treatment of STIs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u280	Amendment No 267 by Mrs Annie Chapelier has just been defended. I call Mr Paul Christophe to support sub-amendment No. 515.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u281	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u282	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u283	You propose that a set of complementary examinations, necessary for these infections, be carried out by midwives. The concept of "additional reviews and reviews" in the amendment seems too broad and imprecise to me, especially since the treatments that may be prescribed by midwives will be listed by decree and the diseases that require further examinations will not be included in the list. The opinion is unfavorable because, if one pushes your reasoning, one could imagine that from a suspicion of syphilis it is necessary to carry out a lumbar puncture, which is definitely not part of the work of the midwife.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u284	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u285	I have no problem in principle, honourable Member, that a midwife who is required to screen for sexually transmitted infections and treatment may also prescribe further examinations to refine her diagnosis. But, in addition to the rapporteur's very good argument on the non-limitative nature of your amendment, I would point out that while it is easy to draw up a list by decree and update it regularly, you are planning the way of the decree. This would mean that a new one would have to be made whenever the list of balance sheets, supplementary examinations and treatment for midwives would have to be updated. Such an increase in the procedure is not at all in line with what you are arguing, and I propose that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u286	Mrs. Chapelier?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u287	In this case, Minister, it is an opportunity for midwives to prescribe to their patient's partner: for the patient, they already can. Potential patients should not be lost sight of due to the multiplication of workers. In addition, the scope of the amendment is very limited: these are STDs, which are known to be viral or bacterial, and which are only screenings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u288	That's not the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u289	But if it is only a question of testing the partner in Article 2 quater.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u290	In your amendment, it's for both!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u291	Amendment No 115 by Mrs Nathalie Porte is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u292	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 463, 181, 296 and 351 which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 181, 296 and 351 are identical. Amendment No 463 by Mrs Maud Petit is being defended. Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 181.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u293	Midwives must be able to prescribe any examination and assessment in order to protect the pregnant woman and the foetus. This would, for example, make it possible to better detect rhesus incompatibilities. Once again, it is a matter of helping to strengthen prevention and to make the course of care more fluid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u294	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine has the floor to support Amendment No. 296.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u295	These three amendments propose that midwives should be able to prescribe blood tests and checks to protect pregnant women and the foetus. This would lead to increased prevention, speeding up and simplifying the course of care, and rendering medical time to the doctor. It could, for example, improve the consideration of rhesus incompatibilities in later pregnancy, or the detection of diseases such as sickle cell disease in the spouse or sexually transmitted infections. It is a question of complementing the duties of midwives, who, I would remind you, already belong to the medical professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u296	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 351.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u297	If Members from such different groups propose the same amendment to you, minister, you think it comes from the order of midwives. In pregnancy, midwives must be able to prescribe all blood tests and tests to protect the pregnant woman and the fetus. This would allow for better management of the consequences of rhesus incompatibilities in later pregnancy, the detection of certain diseases such as sickle cell disease in the spouse, and the detection of certain STDs. This provision would strengthen prevention, fluidize and speed up journeys. As I said exactly the same thing as my two colleagues, this proves that we have all been convinced by the midwives, on the benches of the majority as on the benches of the right and left: Minister, you can only be convinced too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u298	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u299	I do not like it, because the scope of these amendments seems to me to be too broad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u300	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u301	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u302	I can't be blamed this evening for systematically giving unfavorable opinions, but that is far from the case. But I have to say that if your assembly has just adopted an extension of the skills of midwives to the screening and management of sexually transmitted infections of the male partners of their patients, it is because it makes sense, that it fits into their core business. On the other hand, by hearing Jean-Louis Touraine say that a midwife must eventually be able to detect sickle cell disease in the biological father of the child, I wonder: we are really not at all in the same logic – besides the fact that this exam requires skills that I, a medical graduate, probably have not. We would then move quickly to genetic counselling and to global accompaniment not only of the patients but also of their partner. On the other hand, one final argument should suffice to convince you: the wording of these amendments only mentions the biological father, whereas there are situations where it is not he who goes with his companion to the midwife – for example when she has separated from the biological father since the beginning of her pregnancy, which unfortunately can happen. However, it is important for the protection of women to also take an interest in the partner with whom they will live. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u303	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 2c. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 283, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 516.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u304	This amendment, too, aims to broaden the scope of midwives' work so that their skills are better recognized and women are better followed in their care. This is done in particular by extending the right to prescribe medicines. I will take two examples: today, a midwife can prescribe to a woman who has a urinary infection... but only if that woman is pregnant; And she can prescribe anti-inflammatory drugs when a woman suffers after childbirth, but not during her period – which unfortunately happens to many of us. In line with the same logic, the amendment also proposes the extension of the right to prescribe medical devices. The aim is therefore to broaden the skills of midwives and to better ensure the recognition of such skills, but also and above all to allow a better course of care for women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u305	The Minister has the floor to support sub-amendment No. 516.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u306	Your amendment, the deputy, is important and goes in the direction that the Government wishes to follow, namely that of the recognition of midwives as professionals of first resort in the women's health path. The sub-amendment specifies that the list of medical devices and medicines that may be prescribed by midwives should be updated as soon as a new device or medicine is placed on the market. It is a good step forward that your amendment, which will be secured and reinforced by the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u307	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u308	Favourable subject to the adoption of the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u309	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 334.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u310	For the past ten years, the number of new diagnoses of chlamydia and gonohull infection has increased, according to Public Health France. This increase particularly affects young people between the ages of 15 and 24, and these conditions sometimes have very serious consequences, such as infertility. Due to the non-systematic use of condoms, these infections, sometimes silent, are very contagious and very common. Screening is the only means of diagnosis. But while screening and condoms are the most effective ways to fight STIs, it is important to quickly manage these infections once detected to avoid serious complications. The scope of action of midwives should therefore be broadened to allow them to treat certain STIs of partners, thus giving a new dimension to prevention by promoting early care. This amendment has been proposed to us by the order of midwives. And the writing speaks of the "partner," minister, and not the "spouse."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u311	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u312	Opinion unfavourable because this amendment seems to me to be satisfied with Article 2c.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u313	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u314	We have just adopted an article that goes further than what your amendment proposes, Madam Member. I therefore propose that you withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u315	Mrs Fiat, is the amendment withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u316	No, I'm not taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u317	But he's weakening what's just been voted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u318	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 298.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u319	Today, when a midwife is forced to refer a patient to a specialist, she cannot do so: she must return through the attending physician. This is both an additional difficulty in a care path that should be fluid and an additional cost for health insurance as the number of providers is increased. Here again, it is a matter of improving the care path of women by better recognizing the skills of midwives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u321	I will issue a wisdom opinion in my personal capacity. This amendment has a practical interest, particularly in areas where it is difficult to get access to his treating doctor quickly. I am thinking of the case where the pregnant woman has a sudden skin problem: it is easier for the midwife to send her directly to the dermatologist rather than having to wait for an appointment with the attending physician. It is not a question of questioning the physician's place in the journey, but only of adapting to certain practical cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u322	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u323	First of all, I would like to point out that we have changed considerably this evening, and that is so much better, the framework of exercise and the missions of the maeuticians and midwives: in the space of an hour, ladies and gentlemen, you have boosted their skills as never before for more than ten years. But I'm not completely comfortable with the way the problem is posed here. Take a patient with cystitis frequently. His midwife tells him that this is the fourth of the year, and that you have to go to a urologist to make a urodynamic assessment, possibly a scopia or a scan. As long as she is empowered to advise him, one can wonder why must go through the attending doctor! But the general practitioner would not be wrong to worry about the loss of medical data about the patient whose pathologies, history and follow-up he manages. Because will he be informed? The patient can end up thinking that she loves her midwife very much, that everything is going great, and that she will always go to her first resort in case of a health problem. The field of competence is not the same: let us not confuse the profession of midwife with that of general practitioner. And then your amendment does not set any limits: for any indication, the midwife could direct the patient to the specialist. It is not the risk of abuse that poses a problem to me, but really the issue of data loss and consistency with the attending physician. Furthermore, in case of emergency, dermatological or other, I would like to point out that there is always the possibility of going to the specialist directly. In short, perhaps we should not confuse, I am sure that we should not confuse the role of the general practitioner, who is the referent, multidisciplinary physician, the pillar of the coordination of care, with the role, which we strengthen, of a midwife in the care of a pregnant woman or not, in connection with her pathology or sexual health. You open a framework that is too general. I hesitated with a wise opinion, but our discussions lead me to give an unfavorable opinion to the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u324	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u325	I recall the title given to this bill: "Improving the health system through trust and simplification". With Amendment No 298, we fill all the boxes: it is an improvement, we trust health professionals who know their limits and their skills, which they have never abused to date – midwives fully identify what they are competent for and what they are not – and we simplify the patient care path.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u326	I have before me five amendments, Nos 200, 436, 11, 333 and 223, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 11 and 333 are identical. Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u327	I am still saddened by the adoption of the amendment to delete article 2 ter, tabled by the Government, which will prevent midwives from engaging in voluntary interruptions of instrumental pregnancy. On this subject we have had intense debates and a clear expression of the National Assembly on the occasion of the consideration of a bill tabled by the former EDS group – Ecology democracy solidarity. A few days ago, the Committee on Social Affairs adopted Rule 2b, in full consistency with all our previous debates. And now, at the turn of a bill that merely repeats a provision to which the majority of the Assembly had acceded, this article is deleted without further debate. Mr. Minister, you have told us on several occasions that the question of abortion deserves time to build a real debate; You have today asked us to adopt an amendment which has not been the subject of a detailed debate. I regret it bitterly. On a completely different subject, Amendment No 200 is intended to make it compulsory to declare to its managing body the basic health insurance scheme the name of its reference midwife in order to guarantee a coordinated journey throughout pregnancy, during the antenatal and postnatal periods.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u328	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor to support Amendment No. 436.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u329	It aims to create a reference midwife status, based on the model of the treating physician, even if it will be a little different. The referent midwife will thus be able to participate in the management of the shared medical record and to monitor the different pregnancies of a woman. Under no circumstances will it compete with the attending physician who coordinates the follow-up of the various specialists; she will only take place in the care path of a woman during her pregnancy. This provision makes it possible to value midwives, whose role tends to become increasingly important. It facilitates the monitoring of women, which improves prevention and also strengthens the position of midwives in the fight against violence against women – they play a little known but even more important role in this regard as violence can be exacerbated in the event of pregnancy. The midwives, again, are the right interlocutors of first recourse and they must be able to direct women towards the appropriate structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u330	In the joint debate, we come to the two identical amendments. Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u331	It tends to give pregnant women the opportunity to declare to the health insurance the name of their reference midwife. In the continuation of the amendment that Caroline Janvier has just presented, it is a matter of strengthening the coordination between the city and the hospital, creating real coordinated paths for pregnant women, because, today, perinatality is often forgotten in the coordinated exercise. This enables the antenatal part of the programme to be made effective by organising maternity leave, whether early or non-early, for women and newborns, in line with the recommendations of the High Health Authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u332	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 333.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u333	From a proposal from the Order of Midwives, it has just been very well defended by Mrs Dubie. The French perinatal model must evolve to better meet the needs and expectations of women, as well as professionals. The strengthening of the inescapable link between the city and the hospital, which is now insufficient, is a key point. This will require the creation of genuine coordinated pathways for pregnant women within each territory. If these amendments are adopted, each pregnant woman will be able to declare a reference midwife who will keep up-to-date a complete obstetrical dossier, which will help parents build their birth plan, link up with maternity, reduce emergency passages through special availability and listening in a climate of trust, regulate the provision of midwives' care by organizing relays, and make the antenatal component of PRADO effective. Beyond midwives, the amendment also corresponds to a request from patients and parents: we hope to obtain favourable opinions and see it adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u334	To conclude the joint debate, Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No 223.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u335	First of all, I want to respond to what Mr. Chiche said about IVG, because there are limits to the demagogic game. We have voted twice in three months for midwives to perform instrumental IVGs. The first time, it was on the initiative of a group that has now disappeared, to which I believe our colleague belonged, and it is precisely because this group was dissolved and we do not know the future of the text voted on at its initiative that we have secured an experiment in the PLFSS. I therefore do not think that we can be seen as denouncing midwives by deleting Article 2b. Mrs Janvier's excellent arguments apply to Amendment No 223. Minister, since you were talking about it, I would like to point out that the midwives are committed to completing the shared medical file for a permanent connection with the attending physician.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u336	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u337	As much as I am in favour of moving forward with regard to the intermediate medical professions or the broadening of the scope of competence of medical assistants or medical professions such as midwives, it seems to me that a multiplicity of references for the same patient would not be in the direction of simplification. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u338	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u339	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u340	I would have thought number 436 was adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u341	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-30-O1098.u342	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Further discussion of the bill to improve the health system through trust and simplification. The meeting is adjourned.
