ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the extension of the state of health emergency and introducing various measures to manage the health crisis (No. 3464, 3472).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u3	As I had the opportunity to say this week in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the situation is unusual: a month ago, I was before you in the context of the first reading of a text aimed at prolonging the derogations accompanying the exit from the state of emergency. This text will not have reached the end of its journey, which was interrupted during its first reading in the Senate, after the President of the Republic had issued a decree in Council of Ministers establishing again the state of health emergency in our country. First of all, I would like to justify the restoration of the state of emergency for health reasons. The urgency in which this measure has been taken means that I will not appear before you until almost a week later. This urgency stems from the active circulation of the virus throughout our country – and when I speak of "active circulation", I weigh my words. Yesterday, in the space of twenty-four hours, 42000 French were recognized as carriers of the coronavirus: during the month of August, there were 1000 to 1500 per day. Yesterday, in 24 hours, 2000 people were hospitalized due to a serious form of infection; 300 patients were admitted to resuscitation, mostly in artificial coma, intubated and ventilated, with a significant life risk. Yesterday, nearly 300 deaths due to coronavirus were reported in our country, in hospital or in EHPAD. Again these few figures do not say anything about the human situation, the consequences of each diagnosis, of each admission to hospital or resuscitation, of each death. The Prime Minister and I announced this week at a press conference: in the coming days, in the coming weeks, the situation will worsen, whatever we do, since the serious forms appear about fifteen days after the diagnosis of the disease. In view of the evolution of the incidence, the serious forms we observed yesterday are only the sad, the morbid reflection of the health situation in our country two weeks ago. A worsening is therefore to be feared for our hospitals, even though 45% of the resuscitation beds are already occupied by patients with coronavirus. Other indicators also show the speed with which the virus circulates and the danger of the second wave. We have increased the number of tests: from now on, 1700000 tests are carried out per week; However, their positivity rate now exceeds 15%. In other words, 15% of the people tested carry coronavirus. We do not discover this situation: week after week, we debated it, both in this Chamber and in the Senate. We have asked for Parliament's confidence in taking the necessary steps to curb the circulation of the virus. You have always given us this confidence: today it is more necessary than ever. Measures to curb the spread of the virus have therefore been taken for weeks, beginning in August, with regard to the metropolis of Aix-Marseille-Provence. These measures have produced important results in some metropolises: I am thinking of Nice or Bordeaux. Elsewhere, the virus continued to spread, forcing us to take further action. All were compatible with the legislation in force, i.e. the derogation regime accompanying the exit from the state of health emergency. The measures adopted by the President of the Republic are not compatible with the current state of law. It is not we who say it, but the Council of State that states it: the restriction of movement between twenty-one hours and six hours in the national territory requires the use of a state of health emergency. The Council of State relies on the decision of the Constitutional Council of 9 July 2020, which is extremely clear in this regard. In accordance with the commitments we made before you, I am here to defend a text aimed at extending this state of emergency for a necessary period, estimated today at three months. We obviously want to get out of this regime as soon as possible; If we can do this before three months, we will. As part of this bill, we are also asking you to provide us with the means to combat the epidemic, even in the event of a state of emergency ending: these are the famous emergency exit measures, which are planned to last several months if necessary. The President of the Republic said yesterday that living with the virus will impose changes on our daily lives for months to come. If we do not anticipate our exit from the state of emergency today, we would risk a dry exit, without the means to fight the virus by limiting large gatherings, for example, or by closing establishments receiving from the public. We cannot accept such a perspective. Without clause 2 of the bill, which contains these derogations, we would be obliged, in due course, to postpone the termination of the state of emergency, the time to pass an ad hoc text. Therefore, the adoption of this article will be essential for all those who share our objective: that this state of emergency lasts as long as possible. Article 3 provides, as you are accustomed to doing, for the maintenance of the information systems essential for the fight against the epidemic: I am thinking of Contact-Covid and SI-DEP – the screening information system – which enable us to alert people whose tests are positive, to prevent contact cases which they are potentially ill and, above all, to record in a single information system all the results of tests, positive or negative, so that they are shared by the whole health sphere. There is no mention of the late StopCovid, nor of the new TousAntiCovid application, which is not the subject of any provision of this bill. Finally, section 4 provides for the authorizations required to reinstate or extend orders made under the laws of 23 March or 17 June 2020, or recent, specifically identified legislation. That was what allowed us in the spring to extend rights or to avoid the sudden suspension of services. We made good use of the authorization that you gave us at that time: no abuse aimed at passing this or that text was deplored. You can therefore be reassured about the intentions of the Government. These intentions, moreover, are based on the remarks and numerous amendments made by senators at their first reading of the abandoned text. They pointed to the risk of putting an end to the exceptional provisions concerning the departmental houses of disabled people – CDMH – or the interest of extending such a right, such a mechanism, to French citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We need this bill to be fully effective during this period, which, you imagine, occupies a great deal of service and administration, and must not result in any loss of rights for the French. This text will also enable health facilities to be accompanied by guarantees that they can operate under the best possible conditions. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I ask you to vote in favour of it. It is not a text of conviction, but a text of responsibility, aimed at allowing us to actively protect the French during a period that has already begun, which will be long, which will be difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u4	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u5	Since the Law Commission met yesterday, 42,000 more people have been contaminated by covid-19. As the minister has fully explained at the moment, the situation is no longer just a matter of concern: it has become extraordinary, exceptional, and therefore a matter of urgency. Here we are: the time is serious and no longer leaves room for delaying. We must act, with all the legal tools at our disposal, to protect the French, to protect our care system, to protect our caregivers. It is for them that we must pass, with full responsibility, this necessary bill, courageous and proportionate to the seriousness of the health situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u6	Depends on who it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u7	In this extremely worrying context, the President of the Republic had no choice but to re-establish a state of health emergency throughout the country on Saturday, 17 October. I would like to welcome this decision, which had become indispensable when we recorded in one week 8754 new hospitalizations, of which 1493 were resuscitation. As recalled by the Council of State, citing the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, concerning curfews applied to a part of the population, the necessary strong measures could only be taken within the legal framework of the state of emergency. I have heard amazing interpretations of this constitutional jurisprudence in committee. I say to you very clearly, ladies and gentlemen: declaring a state of health emergency was necessary for the curfew to enter into force, as it had been necessary to impose it in certain communes during the first wave, then this summer in Guyana, where the state of emergency had been extended. I tell you this with all the more vigour because we legislators had clearly expressed this intention during the examination of the future law of 9 July 2020, thanks to the work done by our rapporteur of the time, Marie Guévenoux. According to the decision of the Constitutional Council of 9 July 2020, "it appears from the parliamentary proceedings that the ban on the movement of persons cannot lead to a ban on them from leaving their homes or surroundings" under the transitional regime. According to the opinion of the Council of State on this bill, "if almost all the measures taken" since the declaration of the state of emergency "could have been taken on the basis of the law of 9 July 2020, or articles L. 3131-1 et seq. of the public health code, the same is not the case with the measure" of curfew, which "cannot be implemented on the basis of the law of 9 July 2020 as is the result of the decision of the Constitutional Council". I repeat, one thing is certain: the Government is acting and will continue to act, with all the legal tools at its disposal, to protect the population. Therefore, pursuant to section L. 3131-13 of the Public Health Code, a bill to extend the state of health emergency beyond four weeks is before Parliament. This is the subject of article 1: the Government requests an extension of the scheme for three months, i.e. until 16 February 2021, which is fully adapted and proportionate to the state of the health situation. I refer you on this point to the opinion of the Council of State, but also to the opinion of the Scientific Council, which explains that, unfortunately, "the winter months will be difficult" in terms of the circulation of covid-19. The restoration of the state of emergency has automatically put an end to the transitional regime in force since 11 July, which is intended to be renewed, since it is designed to organise the exit from the state of emergency. That is why Article 2 of the text makes it applicable, until 1 April 2021, in territories where a state of emergency will no longer be required. It would apply as early as 17 February, or even earlier if the state of emergency was lifted early. This provision has also been validated by both the Council of State and the Scientific Council. Aware of the seriousness of the situation and its own responsibility, the Law Commission had adopted both articles, so that the Government could act effectively in response to the health crisis. Article 3, for its part, makes it possible to apply the strategy "test, trace, isolate" and to continue the search for the virus. Without the ability to track infected people and their contact cases, we cannot break transmission chains and fight effectively against the epidemic. For this reason, it is proposed to extend the SI-DEP and Contact-Covid information systems until April 1, 2021. In addition, the list of health personnel who will be able to enter information about contaminated persons into these systems is extended, in particular to enable pharmacists to do so. I recall that important guarantees are provided, including the transmission by the Government of a report to Parliament every three months on the operation of these systems, supplemented by a public opinion of the CNIL – National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – and the opinion of the Monitoring and Liaison Committee Covid -19, whose role is to ensure respect for medical confidentiality and the protection of personal data. Again, all stakeholders support the extension of these tools. In addition, the committee wanted to incorporate an amendment introduced in the bill that we passed on October 1, 2020: in response to CNIL's recommendations, we propose to improve the evaluation of these information systems by means of specific indicators, which should be agreed to by all. Finally, article 4 empowers the Government to extend or reinstate provisions made by ordinances in the spring and last summer, in particular in the areas of labour law, the functioning of administrations and local and regional authorities or the care of children. All these measures could prove useful if the situation deteriorated sharply, if public services were to become unavailable for a period of time, if action were to be taken quickly to support businesses and our citizens. The text we are looking at this morning therefore allows for an adequate and rapid response by the public authorities in the light of the development of the situation, which is unfortunately difficult to predict. It is not a blank cheque that we make to the Government, as I heard in committee, but rather a heavy responsibility. It is up to Parliament to again authorize the Government to act. We are in the fifth text in eight months, and we will soon have a sixth. Parliament also continues to exercise almost permanently its task of monitoring the Government's actions. Ask the Minister, ask the Chair of the Law Commission, ask your fellow members for commissions of inquiry and ongoing fact-finding missions. Also read the weekly reports transmitted by the Government and available on the Assembly's website. Read the decisions of the Constitutional Council, the opinions of the Scientific Council, take a look at the activity of the Council of State, both as an adviser to the Government and as an administrative judge. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The Government has never been as controlled as it was during this period. The rule of law is there. It is also to keep in mind that the preamble to the Constitution of 27 October 1946 guarantees every citizen the right to health protection. It is up to us, as legislators, to protect and reaffirm this right. As a doctor, as a Member of Parliament and as a rapporteur, I assume this task and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u8	I have received a motion from Mr Damien Abad and members of the Republicans' Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u9	Once again, we find ourselves in this chamber with a mixed feeling, not because we are on a Saturday morning, or because this is the fifth time that we are considering a text on a state of emergency, but because the situation is obviously dramatic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u10	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u11	It is this situation that brings us together; No one's contesting it. However, here in Parliament, we find ourselves in a very unique state of emergency, since it is also parliamentary – but we know how to deal with it. I would point out that the text was presented to the Council of Ministers last Wednesday, that it was examined by the Committee on Laws throughout Thursday and that, forty-eight hours later, we are here in open session: that is to say that Parliament takes its responsibilities and that it knows how to debate under special conditions. What we are doing today, we have already done and could therefore also do again: I am claiming, on behalf of the Republican Group and, more broadly, on behalf of parliamentarians, a right of vigilance by Parliament, which is the representative of the people, but also a guarantor of democracy. I say it because, in reality, we agree on the essential: yes, we share – oh how much! – the concern of our fellow citizens and the Government. No need to create artificial controversy. The state of affairs – as you said solemnly, Minister – is unquestionably worrying. The house burns and you don't look anywhere else – and we don't look anywhere else either. Together we see the difficulties of everyday life. In a very large part of the national territory, on the continent or overseas, many outbreaks of contamination have been recorded. The number of people tested positive is increasing and, in hospitals, the situation, particularly in resuscitation, is increasing dramatically. Since the beginning of the crisis, the Republican Group has assumed its responsibilities; He'll go on. He accompanied the majority in a large number of decisions: we were present with you, alongside the Government but also with the nation, in March and in the weeks that followed. We do not intend to exploit anyone or anything: the epidemiological risks are sufficiently high and the spread of the virus is exponential enough for us to remain responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u12	But...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u13	There is no "but": we are here advocates of the health of our fellow citizens, of course, but also advocates of the law. This is the least of all when the Constitution, and therefore the people by referendum in 1958, gave us special powers that we should not hesitate to use any of the plots. But it is important, if we are at your side, that the messages sent be clear. I'm not sure that's always the case, so much for it. There's been some cover-up about the masks. Some test guidelines are still sometimes difficult to understand, that is to say, to say so. Rhythms grow longer, products may still be missing, answers sometimes slow to come. What can be said about the difficulties faced by many companies? There are these restaurants, cafes, the event sector, the world of entertainment and culture and the discos that are forced to close, while in other places, you sometimes continue to pile up – public transport and supermarkets, among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u14	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u15	In schools, procedures differ according to age and type of school – high school or other. All this is complicated to understand; Pay attention to the readability of the advertisements and the acceptability of the measures! Our fellow citizens are now a little debunked, full of skin, and they need to be brought together. From this point of view, you will understand that we obviously recognize you, Minister, as well as the whole Government, not only the right to act, but the duty to do so. You know that if you did not, the oppositions and, more broadly, all our fellow citizens, would take you by witness. On the other hand, we differ on how to achieve the implementation of certain decisions. First of all, you want to extend the state of health emergency. This is an important point of divergence. The President of the Republic has announced strong measures, such as curfew, which is nothing but a form of night confinement. It seems to us that this extreme but important measure did not require the use of a state of health emergency and that, on the contrary, the existing law, in particular the law of 9 July 2020 organising the exit from the state of health emergency, could perfectly have been the legal support for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u16	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u17	The Council of State takes this into account in its opinion on the current extension of the state of emergency. The decision of the Constitutional Council is not clear, in any case not as much as you say, Minister: it says that a number of measures can be taken, to which it imposes as a condition the active circulation of the virus. Today, however, there is an active circulation of the virus. You can therefore act on the basis of the law of July 9, 2020, which should have been extended but whose examination was suspended sine die last week in the Senate. Widespread confinement, for its part, would undoubtedly raise some legal difficulties and would require legislation. So let's make it clear to our compatriots: if the Government's future decision is a return to widespread confinement, the return to a state of emergency is indeed necessary – but say it! National representation should not be infantilized, let alone our fellow citizens. There is therefore indeed a legal debate; These arguments are not cunning or mood movements of bad sleepers. We are here in the temple of the law. We do so in accordance with the Constitution. We are the guardians of Parliament's democratic control and we do not intend to give it up. This point of divergence is important because, of course, other implications are to be noted in the text as you present it. Article 2 not only extends the state of emergency, but also proposes that the dates of exit be entered today: the state of emergency would run until 16 February and the period of exit until 1 April. But between 16 February and 1 April, we would still be in a state of emergency,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u18	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u19	... albeit slightly degraded; It would no longer be a state of emergency as important as the one in which we are going to commit ourselves. The Constitutional Council itself recognizes, in its decision of 9 July, that this is indeed a form of state of emergency that would continue. Is it reasonable today not only to vote on the state of emergency, but also to do so without parliamentary scrutiny, without an appointment already made, for a period of almost six months leading up to 1 April 2021? The answer is no! There is no question of denying you powers of action, but it is not reasonable not to have provided for a re-visit clause: that would have been necessary. It is important that Parliament does not abdicate its powers. As I indicated earlier, article 24 of the Constitution gives us a prominent role, not only in building and voting the law, but also in monitoring the Government's actions. We passed this law in March and control it through the various committees of inquiry and the Assembly's missions. But it is this chamber, the Chamber, which is the beating heart of our work and which allows for the widest debate. In these conditions, giving you the keys to the house for six months, while we are already in a state of health emergency since March, is actually accepting this condition for almost a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u20	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u21	It is to accept a banality of this very singular state, which is still in violation of a number of public and individual freedoms. The Constitutional Council has recalled this on several occasions and the Council of State, on several occasions, has also sanctioned the action of the Government. Not everything happens linearly: the Council of State intervened on 18 May on freedom of worship, then on 13 June on freedom of demonstration and the conditions of demonstrations. All this is not neutral! We are not in a country where the Bisoun bears could be content with good words. There is no trial of intent: the situation requires action, and there is no dispute, minister, about strong measures, such as curfew, and perhaps even a re-establishment. But you have to say it clearly! And as if all this were not enough, article 4 provides for the power of the Government to legislate by ordinances to extend, restore and adopt measures already taken! Listen carefully: we have not yet examined the laws of ratification of the ordinances that we have already authorized, a few months ago, that, again, we are asked to divest ourselves of entire parts of the law that affect the essentials for our fellow citizens: the freedom to go and come, the freedom of assembly, the freedom of association, the freedom of trade, but also, possibly, the freedom of worship. All this is not neutral, and all this is not nothing. You would like to see this general authority to legislate by ordinance extended again, even though we have not considered the merits of the previous one. "Order order is not valid," we could have said in an old formula. You are asking us for a kind of sub-delegation to a delegation that would be almost permanent: Parliament cannot divest itself of this point, especially since you even foresee the possibility of making retroactive orders. We gave the keys to the house and, in addition, when the text is no longer applicable in a number of cases, you reactivate it! It's legal resuscitation. Bravo! And all this with some kind of majority consent, which amazes me because, as far as the place and role of Parliament is concerned, we should – and we could – be in agreement. Finally, a point about health data, which, despite appearances, is no less important: you want to reactivate several elements related to SI-DEP and Contact-COVID devices – certainly, you do not mention StopCovid. But we already have fears, which we have expressed. In a June order, the Council of State directed the Government to further ensure data protection. CNIL has also intervened on this subject on numerous occasions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u22	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u23	I'm finishing, Madam President! We are already concerned, and you would also like – as mentioned in Article 4 IV – that the bodies that are normally to be consulted should not be consulted during the entire period of the state of emergency! In short, as you can see, there are some difficulties. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that we are responsible: we do not wish to prevent the Government from acting, but we must do so on the right basis. These are not just speeches from the gallery,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u24	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u25	I'm finishing, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u26	Your speaking time is largely exhausted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u27	These are not speeches from the rostrum: this is an essential subject, which touches on the balance between health and public freedoms. We can't sacrifice one or the other. We are not ready to give you a white-seing: we will be vigilant, we can assure you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u28	Thank you, Mr. Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u29	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... to act alongside you, but perhaps on other foundations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u30	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u31	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u32	Once it is not customary, allow me first of all, Mr Gosselin, to thank you for the responsibility you have given for the curfew, a tool that you have recalled the need to combat the epidemic. It has been a long time since I heard the intonations I found there, which suggest that, in the period we are going through, national unity may be possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u33	It is desirable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u34	I do believe that it is desirable, and even fundamental. In recent months, the French have not been helped by the many polemics that have sparked the debate on the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u35	These polemics are your fault! You're making contradictory comments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u36	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm trying to pay tribute to you, Congressman! Be kind enough to listen to me, or I can move on! The gravity of my intonation is not usual: it is in unison with the one with which the French look at our debates. You said that Parliament was taking on its responsibilities. As I have already pointed out in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I do not have your talents and knowledge as a lawyer, Mr Gosselin – I am a doctor, Minister of Solidarity and Health, responsible for managing the fight against the spread of the virus. I take these debates with great responsibility, because law is important and legislating must be a serious job. Before your intervention, I explained in the rostrum that we were enlightened by the Council of State and all of the nation's legal services. The state of health emergency was taken on the basis of the opinion given by the Council of State in June, which is very clear: without this state of emergency, we would not be able to ensure the sustainability of a curfew. I say it, I say it even, not as a specialist in law, but as a minister enlightened by all the specialists in the law of the nation. The whole is based on an opinion of the Constitutional Council, which, as you know, is an authority that imposes it on the way we legislate in our country. And that's normal. Yesterday, the Council of State validated the curfew measure, under the conditions under which we applied it – the same Council of State which told us that, if we did not decree a state of health emergency, it was not sure to validate the measure. The curfew has been attacked but the Council of State has given us reason in law. Member, when we put forward a motion of rejection, we do so for reasons that are specific, and I will not discuss your legitimacy to do so, especially in the period we are going through. But I want to enlighten the national representation on what would happen if, in the next few minutes, this motion were to be adopted –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u37	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u38	...even if I don't think I will. The consequence of an adoption would be binary: on 17 November, the curfew would be lifted throughout the country, and all night activities would resume. I do not believe that this is your intention, and I believe that it is neither your choice nor your ambition. We can discuss law and legislating, which is interesting, but I have also been a Member of Parliament, and when we table a motion – or we are called to vote on it – we must always ask ourselves what would happen if, by chance, we were to be followed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I wholeheartedly hope, Mr. Member, that you will not be on this motion; I wish it for the French and for health security in our country. I therefore strongly urge the majority to reject the motion, both in form and substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u39	As there are no explanations of vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u40	Yes, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u41	In this case, it is necessary to show up as soon as possible. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I thought that, on a motion of rejection, explanations of vote were automatic. Minister, you replied to Philippe Gosselin that if the motion were passed, it would have the effect of ending the curfew on November 17. Since this is the central measure that makes you introduce today a bill that extends the state of health emergency, I will tell you that, if the motion were to be passed today, we would have ample time to debate a new piece of legislation, more in line with the concept of the democratic debate that we should have, to justify curfew and to base it legally. In reality, much more than just legal, this debate is eminently political, since it affects the democratic conception of the Government's action in the context of the health crisis. Nor does anyone dispute the current gravity of this, nor the exceptional measures which must be taken accordingly. But all this should be based on the confidence of the French people. However, since the beginning of the health crisis, the French have not granted it to you and still do not grant it to you! The duty of Parliament, which has the power to do so, is therefore to monitor your actions as closely as possible; This requires regular legislative meetings, which the text before us today does not provide for. It should therefore be rejected prior to its discussion, and that is why the IUD-I Group will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u43	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u44	The MoDem Democratic Movement and related democrats Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. Since the transitional regime was introduced, and then extended – a few months ago – we have had the opportunity to debate it regularly in our Assembly: the Government and Parliament, both members of Parliament and senators, can welcome it. I do not believe, moreover, that there is any debate as to the legal basis for the establishment of a state of emergency, which is based on the code of public health. Indeed, the very nature of a state of health emergency, as we have voted, is to allow exceptional and temporary measures to be taken to combat a health threat – such as the one we currently know. The curfew measure is therefore well within this definition. Indeed, it is not a matter of prescribing the wearing of the mask in a defined area, but of restricting, for a given time range and period, the freedom of movement. We must not be mistaken about the debate: we have a legal framework, which we debated for long hours last March, and which needs to be reactivated. This is what we are going to do with this text, which aims to prolong the state of health emergency. Our group will therefore vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u45	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, a request for a public vote is being submitted to me by the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u46	The Group of the European People's Party welcomes with great seriousness the words of Philippe Gosselin, especially when it comes to the discomfort that the new measures can cause for our compatriots. I am also pleased to hear him take responsibility, recognizing that the essential thing is in the right direction. However, we understand this a little less when it seems to imply that the Government is moving ahead masked with the prospect of re-establishing, perhaps one day, a general form of containment. However, I believe that the Prime Minister has been, on the subject, more clear, who has said that everything is being done to avoid it. In other words, we prefer our colleague Philippe Gosselin when he amends the text submitted to him, in particular by proposing to reinstate the compulsory consultations of certain bodies, which the text was intended to abolish during the period of covid -19. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] I believe that his amendments attest to the fact that, far from having to reject the text, we are rather invited to debate it and to do so urgently, because there is an urgent need. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u47	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u48	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes, the situation is worrying; Yes, there are positive cases – we will have the opportunity to come back. Since March, however, Parliament has been constantly being lowered, forgotten, circumvented, instrumentalised and denigrated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u49	What's she doing to us?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u50	After having legislated in absolute urgency, we are now reduced to a semi-activity, with a gauge of presence in the Chamber totally contrary to the Constitution. But let us ignore the aberrant conditions in which, together with our employees, we have had to work for months! Monitoring the Government's actions is one of the essential functions of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u51	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u52	But how can we validly assure him that the executive dares to present itself before us with "this"? "That" is a simple and single page of explanatory memorandum, citing a three-page report from the Scientific Council as the basis, and presenting facts from which the sources are not known. No, the Government does not give us any evidence of the need to bring Parliament together in an emergency, one weekend. Not content with getting the French to live in fear, he used parliamentarians to live in urgency, and therefore in non-contradiction. You ask us to accept these manoeuvres that fuel fear and undermine all the stability of our country and our democracy. Let us not fool ourselves: if we are gathered today at the request of the Government, it is both because the Government has no legal choice, and because legislation on a weekend is so practical to silence the opposition! For these reasons, the Liberties and Territories Group, committed to the values of democracy, will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u53	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u54	First of all, perhaps at the opening of this day, we could agree that all of us on these benches are acting in responsibility and are aware of the seriousness of the epidemic and the actions to be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u55	There's no knowing and no others!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u56	However, we can, as Philippe Gosselin did, worry about the text before us without wanting us to be disarmed in the face of the crisis. It is possible to propose to us to work on other provisions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u57	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u58	... and that is how I have heard our colleague's remarks, especially when he asks the House to refuse to give up his control power for six months – because it is, basically, what this is about – to leave the cubits open to the Government. We are indeed many to say, as Pascal Brindeau has just done, that France is the country of Europe where the people have the least confidence in their rulers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u59	That's right! Trust is the foundation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u60	...to face the covid-19 and confront it effectively. Is there not a parallel between the democratic question, deliberation, the role of Parliament and the population's distrust of the Government? Everyone agrees that the fight against covid-19 will not be effective without accountability, without the country's massive adherence to the recommendations adopted. There is, whether we like it or not, a link between living democracy, even in times of crisis, and the accession of the population. If you hide this reality, I'm afraid we'll have some difficult tomorrows. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u61	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u62	Like all the others, the Socialist and Related Group is aware of the seriousness of the pandemic that we are facing and therefore of the seriousness of this debate. However, we share many of the questions raised by Philippe Gosselin. However, since we believe that Parliament's role is to debate and make arguments, in order to strike a balance between public freedoms and the need to combat the pandemic, we cannot vote on the motion to reject the group's previous vote. The Republicans, although, I repeat, we share many of the concerns expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u63	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u64	The second wave is there and the group's motion to reject The Republicans would have the effect of leaving the Government unarmed in order to combat it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u65	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u66	If it were adopted on 17 November, no exceptional measures could be taken – no restrictive travel measures, but no aid measures either, since Article 4 provides for the renewal of the authorisation for orders to accompany our citizens and businesses socially and economically. According to Martin Hirsch, the Director General of AP-HP, Public Assistance – Hospitals of Paris, the second wave can be worse than the first. Colleague Gosselin, you recognize the Government's right to act, you also acknowledge that curfews are useful or that local confinements may also prove useful, and you oppose the emergency regime that allows these measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u67	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just a regime of proportionate restrictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u68	We do not understand these contradictions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The La République group on the move will obviously vote against this rejection motion. Everyone remembers that you had supported the state of health emergency to face the first wave. Everyone will remember that you preferred to run behind those who are in denial and leave us alone to take on our responsibilities and face the second wave.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u69	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u70	It's a bad day, Mr. Rupin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u71	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u72	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Our colleague Rupin's attacks are rather out of place. You are trying to lock us in a binary approach: who is not with us is against us. You are bright enough and sagacious enough to understand my words perfectly. I will sum them up, and you will understand, if not already – because I think everyone has understood. One: the house is burning. Two: The Government is right not to look next door. Three: If the finding is shared, however, we have legal reasons not to grant your request for a state of health emergency. This does not mean that the Government would be disarmed, or that it is, because there are other laws in common law. We reject this form, which is perhaps an easy one, of resorting to a state of emergency. In any case, we refuse to banish this state of emergency. Yes, we need resources. Yes, we need to act collectively, as a matter of responsibility, but here in the National Assembly, we are not just tinkering with the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u74	We are aware of our duties, of our responsibilities as legislators. We must give the Government the legal means to act effectively for the safety of our fellow citizens. We will take responsibility. The Government is not alone. Nor can he sit down, so to speak, on national representation. What we want,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u75	Thank you, Mr. Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u76	I conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u77	Your time has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u78	We need a re-visit clause...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u79	Thank you, my colleague. I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u80	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 86 Number of votes cast 86 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 18 Against 68
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u81	In the general debate, Mr Christophe Euzet spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u82	In committee on Thursday, it was pointed out that we were working in an emergency. That's right. There is an urgent need, and we have seen that it is not only at home: Europe as a whole is concerned, the American continent as well. The crisis is global. It's uncomfortable for everyone. Nothing we do here is really pleasant to us, but I have a deep conviction that we need to do it, in a responsible way, as has been said on several occasions. I hear with attention, seriousness and seriousness the criticisms of the opposition. They are necessary, and even indispensable, because they allow us to see, by mirror effect, what the majority is doing. I hear speeches, sometimes overly alarming, about the end of democracy and the risk to the rule of law, but the Action Group and I refuse to scream with wolves. We need to look at things with clarity and as much objectivity as possible. Objectively, as a matter of responsibility, with seriousness, failing to respond to the problem would be tantamount to failing to assume the health responsibility that lies with the politicians we are. Too much would be an excessive violation of our freedom and fundamental rights, beyond what the people of our country are willing to accept. Between these two terms is, as has already been said, the narrow and fragile threshold of the social, economic and health acceptability of the measures to be taken. However, as everyone in this House will agree with responsibility and seriousness, the exercise is complicated. I will not go back to the figures, which are known to all, which have been recalled and which are alarming. Nor will I go back to the details of the text: it extends the state of emergency until 16 February, i.e. by three months, it provides for a new, modified transitional period of exit from the state of emergency in order to allow for a return to normal which everyone in this House calls for, it extends the implementation of the information and data retention systems, and, logically, it empowers the Government to take measures by means of ordinances in case of need, in particular, as the Minister has rightly pointed out, to extend the exercise of certain rights. In other words, we need to face a new pitfall, a second wave, before which everyone plays their part: the executive for rapid decision-making, civil society, which is watching us do with a lot of involvement, the media in their role, and we here, parliamentarians, representatives of the nation, who are responsible for judging the method, the form and the substance. On the method, being too dogmatic would send us to a trial where we would be accused of not listening or not understanding the difficulty of the problem. The method is therefore necessarily empirical, because we are facing the unknown. On the substance, our meeting is obviously uncomfortable, because it is a question of carrying out harsh attacks on our fundamental freedoms, on our fundamental rights, on our freedom to move, to undertake and to assemble. This is an important sacrifice, which raises the question, as has been said, of the social, economic and health acceptability of the measures taken. It is therefore up to us, as parliamentarians and in order to play our part, to make an assessment, in the rule of law, of the form of what is being done. Are the decisions well-founded? They are taken after the advice of the Scientific Council and the Council of State, both of which consider that they are required by the circumstances. For our part, we are consulted for the fifth time in a few months, which fully reflects the role we are called upon to play in the long run. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These measures are proportionate and strictly necessary, with time-limited authorizations, limited in terms of areas and located to the maximum, with prefects being given the power to take appropriate measures. They are monitored – the legislative provisions by the Constitutional Council and the regulatory provisions by the Council of State. We ourselves will be careful, as has been said in committee, to ensure that compulsory prior consultations are respected. Finally, they are called upon to lead to a legal regime that will have to be clarified in the coming weeks, with a mission called by the Chair of the Law Commission and a bill that will arrive a little later. We are therefore involved, attentive, responsible and vigilant, and we will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u83	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u84	Mr Minister, you have started your remarks by referring to the number of deaths to be deplored in recent days, the number of serious cases requiring hospitalizations, particularly in resuscitation, and the risk, with this second wave, of seeing our hospitals and our health personnel, to whom we think at this moment, overwhelmed by the number of our fellow citizens who would again find themselves in great difficulty in the face of the disease. No one here disputes the seriousness of this situation – we ourselves do not contest it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u85	Of course, no one's challenging it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u86	...and I believe that all our citizens are aware that strict measures must be taken. However, the debate cannot be summed up in an alternative where, on the one hand, the urgency of the health problem would be solved by abandoning you all the prerogatives that usually belong to Parliament in all fields – health, economic and social – for a period of six months and, on the other hand, challenging this solution would make us irresponsible who do not give the Government sufficient means to act in the face of the second wave.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u87	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u88	Nothing in the decision of the Constitutional Council of 9 July last says that the curfew would have no legal basis in this law...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u89	It's even the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u90	... and the Council of State is not as clear in its opinion as you say.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u91	At all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u92	In fact, only one measure must justify the restoration of the state of emergency – only one, that of general containment. That is why, Mr Minister, I ask you the question very clearly, as our colleague Philippe Gosselin did before me: is the general reconfinition of our fellow citizens on the agenda of the Government and, if so, when would he intervene? I believe that our fellow citizens have the right to know this, and Members of the IDU and independent Group will not be able to vote on this text until they have a clear answer to this question. With Article 2, you state that it is absolutely essential to provide for measures to exit the state of emergency because, failing that, we would find ourselves in an untenable situation by the 16th of February next. No, minister: as far as the first state of emergency is concerned, we have been very well able to deliberate on transitional measures, some of which were still under consideration – the fourth text had not yet completed its legislative process.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u93	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u94	It is quite possible, and even indispensable – it is Parliament's role – to deliberate on these issues and to be able to do so during the state of emergency, even if it is restored for three months. You told the Committee on Laws the day before yesterday that the text planned for January on the sustainability of the legal regime for a state of health emergency would in any case be submitted to Parliament for consideration. Finally, this text must, in particular in Article 3, still be the subject of discussions on the conditions for the retention and use of the personal data of our citizens resulting from the use of the information system intended to trace and monitor positive cases at the covid -19 – conditions on which we still do not have safe and clear elements, allowing to judge the effectiveness of the device implemented or the way in which you intend to use the data in question to combat the epidemic. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] Finally, some of the orders made under the March text have not yet been ratified by Parliament, contrary to the law. You are going to create a kind of unidentified legal object by allowing the renewal of the authorization for orders that would not have been ratified by our assembly, which I do not think is desirable. If the text is not substantially amended on the questions I have asked, the independent IDU Group will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u95	Once again, we meet again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u96	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u97	Yeah, I'm talking about responsibility...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u98	And with a mask!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u99	... and yes, the situation is worrying. Once again, you ask us to acquiesce in your maneuvers, fuelling fear and undermining the stability of our country and our democracy. But, basically, is the health situation so worrying? We have never denied the distress of sick people and their loved ones. Yes, I'm also thinking about all those healthcare professionals who are on the front line. On the other hand, the distrust of institutions on the part of our Government is of particular concern. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] However, the confinement put in place on 17 March 2020 was not declared on the basis of any text. There was then no legal basis for detaining the French in the name of an unprecedented restriction of freedoms based solely on fear of the virus. Since March, our parliament has been downgraded, forgotten, bypassed, instrumentalised, when it is not denigrated. After having legislated in absolute urgency, it is now reduced to a semi-activity, with gauges of presence in the Chamber which are also contrary to the Constitution. Let us not fool ourselves: if we are meeting today at the request of the Government, it is both because the Government has no legal choice, but also because legislation for a weekend, as I said earlier, is really practical to have very few people in this House, so to silence the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u100	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u101	Was the restoration of the state of emergency necessary? Were the institutions of the Republic not able to face a health crisis – of which we do not minimize the magnitude – without going through this attraction of devices that damage our democracy? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there were other means, other possibilities, which the Liberties and Territories Group has already mentioned, under common law – I am thinking in particular of the health code. The many questions asked by parliamentarians, lawyers, academics and ordinary citizens about the reasons why the Government had ignored the common law remained unanswered. The President of the Republic, in his Jewish majesty, decides,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u102	Don't forget who you were invested by!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u103	... the government executes, Parliament and local elected officials are asked to acquiesce – and quickly, because we should not be able to question the method or, worse, try to understand your motivations...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u104	[[Smiles and exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] That's for sure, next time, you better not invest it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u105	Come on, ladies and gentlemen, only Mrs Wonner has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u106	The policy of fait accompli has lasted long enough. It is no longer acceptable for mayors of the major cities to learn, half an hour before the public announcement of the executive, that their community will live under strengthened constraint. It is no longer acceptable that the announcement of the restoration of the state of health emergency by the executive should not be followed by a genuine explanation in Parliament. It is true that the way to find the Chamber would have been a long one, wouldn't it? It is no longer possible for citizens to be subjected to contradictory decisions on the basis of insufficiently explained health and political information – when they are not false. No, a three-and-a-half page document is not a sufficient explanation. No, a one-page statement of reasons is not a sufficient explanation. The law that Parliament voted in haste last March, under the emotion of confinement decreed a few days earlier, and in conditions of work totally contrary to the Constitution, in the face of a virus that we knew very little, does not exempt the Government from being held accountable, especially when it comes to granting the executive such powers that violate fundamental freedoms – in other words, to trample our freedoms on the altar of a sacrosanct principle of ultra-precaution. If we have legislated as a matter of urgency, it is also to counter the unpreparation of the state. With regard to the threat posed by the health situation to the holding of departmental and regional elections, we recall that democracy cannot be confined. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these measures which the Government presents as provisional, it will ask you in January to include them definitively in our legal body, and the exception will become the rule. It is our rule of law that dies, and you let it happen. For all these reasons, our group will vote against...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u107	Close the microphone is not correct.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u108	[[Smiles and exclamations on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The band? Where is this band?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u109	Come on, you mustn't be mean to small groups!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u110	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u111	We have moved from a grandiose: "We are at war", pronounced by Emmanuel Macron on March 16, 2020 to a pitiful: "We must learn to live with the virus" of the same president, six months later. The blows of Minister Veran's chin, who, in all shame, allows himself to taunt the parliamentarians who are doing their job of monitoring his government's action to mask its bad record, will not change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u112	These two won't go on vacation together!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u113	If we have moved from the sound of the bugle to the capitulation, to use the martial vocabulary so popular with the macronya, it is because the choices of this government and that majority have made us lose battle after battle. The battle of means, first of all: how can the Government justify the restriction of freedoms by the saturation of the health system while at the same time it abolished 4200 hospital beds in 2018 and 3400 others in 2019 and that, due to lack of available staff, caregivers tested positive for covid-19 had to be mobilized? With 900 million euros less for the hospital in 2021 and 4 billion savings expected on the expenditure of health insurance in the draft law on the financing of social security, how can he hope to make us believe that he has become aware of the scale of the crisis? While it was the collective involvement of caregivers, essential employees and the entire population during confinement that led to a decrease in the rate of spread of the virus, this government and the majority continued to trample on all forms of democracy – health, social and parliamentary. You have chosen, ladies and gentlemen, to give priority to Jupitian verticalism at the expense of associative, trade union and political contributions, including opposition groups. Still today, Minister, you continue to pretend to ignore proposals such as those that France has made for months unsuspecting: I would like to remind you of them. We have tabled eleven legislative proposals, for the nationalization of Luxfer and Famar,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u114	Sure, we're gonna take care of a lot of sick people with this!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u115	... the creation of a public drug center, the requisition of the textile industry, the suspension of rents, the free funeral for the families of the victims of the coronavirus, the free of charge of masks, the recognition of coronavirus as a natural disaster, the recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease, the supervision of food intakes, the fight against energy insecurity, the cancellation of the debt. We have also proposed eleven emergency measures for the means of comprehensive protection of the population, and emergency measures for students; 25 proposals for exiting the crisis at European level; a general de-confinination plan and an economic de-confinination plan for an ecological bifurcation; four guides on domestic violence related to confinement and on the protection of employees during the crisis; Finally, analyses of ordinances and municipal recommendations for elected officials. Infantilizing the people, derogating from national representation and civil society, you have repeatedly lied, undoubtedly losing the battle of opinion. With regard to crisis management and lack of anticipation, it should be noted that in November 2019, first cases were detected in China, but also in France. However, on January 24, the Minister of Health explained that the risk of importation from Wuhan was almost zero and the risk of the spread of coronavirus in the very low population, before confessing in March that she had left the ministry "in tears, because I knew that the tsunami wave was in front of us. The same minister is now assigned – like you, Mr.Véran – to the Court of Justice of the Republic. As for screening, on 17 March 2020, France was "not subject to WHO's instructions to test, test, test", explained Jérôme Salomon. On March 24, you yourself explained, minister, that everything was fine, that we had all the necessary capabilities. A few days ago, Emmanuel Macron acknowledged the failure of your non-strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u116	Beautiful, don't change anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u117	One might glorify the shortage of masks and the assertion of their futility, but I will spare you the reminder of the speeches and peremptory affirmations of yourself, Mr.Véran, and of the former spokesman of the Government, Mrs.Ndiaye, that the French were not skilled enough to put on masks – whereas they are now mandatory everywhere, even if they are not free. This gribouille policy has led to a weakening of the health response and protection of the population, which has not been mistaken. At the end of March, 79% of French and French people feel that the executive has taken too long to take action. In May, two thirds of our citizens feel that the Government has not been up to the challenge, while 51 per cent of people in Europe believe that their government has managed the crisis well. In the absence of concrete economic, health and social measures, you have left the hospital behind and you prefer to confine our freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u118	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u119	In this case, you have not shown yourself worthy of our trust or that of citizens; We cannot therefore approve your request...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u120	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u121	The times of extreme uncertainty that we are going through must lead us all to more humility, but also to more clarity and democracy. More humility, first of all: Communist deputies have the principle of not denouncing in others the turpitudes which it is not certain that they would have been able to escape themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u123	Indeed, who could claim in spring 2020 to define without hesitation the course to follow? We are keeping this in mind at the time of our debates. To this call for humility, we add a second: a call for clarity and democracy. For eight months, we have also learned: we have learned that by soliciting the intelligence and civicism of the population, the population accepts the obligations imposed on it to fight against covid-19, even the most binding such as the deprivation of the freedom to go and come. On the contrary, we have learned that the best ally of the covid-19 is the lack of clarity of public decisions. We have learned that when to the confusion and cacophony to which public speech has sometimes contributed about wearing masks and tests, not to mention paradoxical injunctions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u124	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u125	... in addition to authoritarianism and arbitrariness, the population's membership is weakened.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u126	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u127	With it, it is the very effectiveness of public policies that is started – and the virus is gaining ground. That is why taking the situation seriously does not mean that we must refrain from taking a critical look at the executive's response to it. For a long time, however, we have been warning of the danger to our democracy of the trivialisation of a system of exceptions to ordinary law. The habituation of such processes would maintain the executive in a zone of harmful comfort and short-circuit the most essential institutions, in particular Parliament, and democracy would be weakened. The temptation would be great, indeed, for this exceptional regime to become the means for the Government to euphemize shortages and mask its dysfunctions – such as the long-running disengagement of the State from the public hospital. As we face the second epidemic wave, the state of the public hospital, on which we have been constantly alerting you, is as disastrous as it was at the edge of the crisis. Despite the Secur de la santé, the resignations of staff continue, in all categories. Is the hospital really stronger than in the spring as you say, minister? I shall cite only one example, that of my department of the Seine-Saint-Denis, which unfortunately illustrates the fact that the question of material and human resources is still not dealt with. How else can we explain that in this department, which paid the heaviest price for the health crisis, the incidence rate on the tests is the lowest while the occupancy rate on the resuscitation beds is the highest, if not by a considerable shortage of beds and by the sad state in which the public hospital is located? The state of health emergency which entered into force on 17 October is extended until 16 February 2021. Its implementation will last for four months. In addition, from 16 February to 1 April, the draft law provides for the application of the transitional regime established upon exit from the state of emergency. The Government therefore requests the Parliament to authorize it to maintain the state of emergency for a period of four months and to implement the transitional regime from 16 February; We cannot grant him such a white-seing for such a long period. I said this at the beginning of my speech: in the face of the health threat, the commitment of Members of the GDR Group must be clear. We are prepared to respond to the call for national unity in the face of a health crisis that we do not underestimate, but we would be wrong, ladies and gentlemen, to lose sight of the fact that it is precisely its ability to function in times of crisis that we measure the effectiveness of the rule of law. Faced with the scale of the crises and challenges – environmental, social, health – that are accumulating, the response of a modern democracy cannot be to amplify the means of law, transparency and collective deliberation. This is the immense stake that stands before us; It even goes beyond the question of the health crisis. It is also for these substantive reasons that we will not vote in favour of this bill – unless our amendments were all passed, which seems unlikely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u128	That's not planned, is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u129	Don't dream!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u130	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u131	We are here again to vote on a new state of health emergency. We have repeated it several times: we do not do it with a gaîte de coeur but with conscience and responsibility. Consciously: As the days pass, the health situation deteriorates sharply. We are at the heart of a crisis, as you have pointed out with seriousness, Minister. The figures oblige us, as much as we know, that behind them there are lives and sufferings, those of our fellow citizens. Yesterday, France exceeded the threshold of 1 million infected people and more than 41000 new positive cases were recorded. In the commission of laws, I referred to a positivity rate of 13.7%; It now stands at 14.3%. Resuscitation services are on the verge of saturation; 46% of their beds are occupied by covid-19 patients. During yesterday's day alone, 1627 people were hospitalized for heavy care in resuscitation. You have considerably increased the capacity for resuscitation, Minister, and I welcome this action. Let us not misunderstand the objective, however: it is not a question of increasing the number of people in resuscitation – people who are suffering, intubated, in a coma – but on the contrary we want to reduce the number of patients, which requires action in responsibility. To face responsibility, therefore, this second wave requires strong and courageous decisions. The Government was able to act quickly, at the end of the summer, on the basis of the legislation adopted by Parliament, by taking measures of protection and restriction throughout the territory. We must go further and provide ourselves with all the means necessary to curb the spread of the virus and fully implement the measures announced by the President of the Republic. I hear there would be no justification for a state of emergency, except confinement. I also heard Mr. Gosselin say that curfew itself is night confinement. What's the conclusion? I'm not a doctor. I'm a lawyer. But is it necessary to be a lawyer to read paragraph 15 of the decision of the Constitutional Council of 9 July 2020: "The ban on the movement of persons cannot lead to prohibiting them from leaving their homes or surroundings"? The Constitutional Council did not allow us to impose a curfew without re-legislating. The Government restored the state of health emergency for one month, until 16 November. Today, fifty-four departments are under curfew: 46 million French are involved. The whole country is on alert. We need to set a framework so that everyone's efforts are not in vain. These measures are difficult and affect our social and daily life. To be effective, they require a collective effort, but also the support of all. To do this, you have to draw a horizon. That is why I welcome the Government's request in this bill to act both by taking emergency measures and anticipation measures. Exception, because the state of emergency regime must remain derogatory, exceptional and framed, as we have been able to do since the beginning of the crisis. Anticipation, because in addition to the state of health emergency until 16 February 2021, the Government proposes to us to build today the conditions for a gradual return to normal, which we hope to achieve as soon as possible. These are the two pillars of this text. I move quickly on to Article 3, which has given rise to little debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because we all know, basically, that in order to get out of this health crisis, we need the tools of tracing. I will therefore come back to what will occupy us most today: Article 4 and the authorizations it provides for. There are many of them, it is true, but they are intended to protect the rights of our fellow citizens, who, above all, must not decline as the virus spreads. I am referring here to the right to partial unemployment, administrative delays, expulsion procedures, and so on. Amendments to these authorizations have already been adopted in committee and others will be presented during the debate; That is the role of parliamentarians. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I conclude, minister, by telling you that the group of the Republic on the move will of course vote in favour of this bill, in responsibility and because we know that you are mobilizing every moment, every day, against the spread of the virus. Be assured of our full support in this long-term battle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u132	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u133	I would like to begin by welcoming your courageous presence on the bench of the Government, Mr.Minister: as you told us in committee and again earlier, you are not a lawyer but a doctor, and you are the Minister of Health. But you have the courage to come and defend this text, although it seems somewhat paradoxical. We have all said this: we agree on the seriousness of the health crisis in France – the issue is not under discussion. France is sick; We have to treat her. You should then be at the bedside of this France, and it is the Minister of the Interior who should be in your place to discuss with us the measures to be adopted in order to go through the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u134	That's right! We could have been warned!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u135	In our view, this institutional dysfunction is particularly worrying, especially since you are asking us today the question of trust. Are we prepared to give up our prerogatives by allowing you, for the purposes of managing the health crisis, to make the law in our place, to take libertic measures and to decide in the place of the legislator what is good or bad for the French? We have already done that in March, then in May, and again in July. We were about to do it again ten days ago when you interrupted the parliamentary process to pronounce the state of health emergency again. All the authorizations we have given you since the beginning of the crisis were intended to ensure proper management of the crisis. Since then, we have heard contradictory statements every day: masks or no masks, opening or closing, screening for all or screening for symptomatic subjects, freedom to go and come. That's where we're at. The numbers are exploding and the new cases are tens of thousands every day. In the most absolute panic, while the bill to extend the exorbitant provisions of the common law beyond 30 October was about to be adopted, you are taking out a new mechanism from the hat: curfew. First limited to certain territories, it has continued to expand in recent days. However, this protocol is not written anywhere and no one knows if it will be beneficial. There is much to be feared that it will, alas, have no effect on the crisis. For six months, we've been tinkering, groping, trying, abandoning, changing; We are being watered with figures produced on a basis that fluctuates from day to day. At the beginning of the summer, you considered that we were leaving the state of emergency; Barely last summer, you were expressing your concerns and asking Parliament again, in order to have more time to get you out of the crisis. Today, we are going back violently to the crisis, when your mandate was to do whatever it took to get us out of it. Despite this failure in crisis management, you come today, in a state of absolute panic, to ask us once again to trust you to manage the crisis! If you had at least drawn the consequences of the past period, if the hospitals had been armed to deal with this relapse you had seen coming,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u136	But that's not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u137	Are you proud of what you're saying?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u138	... if beds had been opened, staff mobilized, written protocols to enable us to live in spite of the virus, to protect the most vulnerable more firmly, to identify the jobs absolutely indispensable to the life of the country... But from that, nothing has been done. Because the tension on hospital capacity is going to explode again, you would like us to trust you again completely. You will understand, Minister, that in all responsibility we cannot do this without betraying the French, especially since you do not tell us what you intend to do with these prerogatives, nor what your plan of attack is – even though yesterday the President of the Republic finally admitted that it is necessary to prepare for a new confinement. But there are so many things! Whole sections of the economy and culture collapse a little more every day. The French are worried; the French are afraid; They don't trust them anymore: they want to know, they want to predict, they want to understand. The French are at a standstill. The anxiety climate that you maintain by your fluctuating statements is no longer bearable. With responsibility, with the trust that our fellow citizens have given us, we cannot again abdicate and leave you the keys to the country. You can't do it: we'll help you, all together!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u139	Of course! Collectively!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u140	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Tell us what you want to do, we will discuss it together and we will give you confidence, but, as it is, you will easily understand that we cannot let you do it, because we will always be stronger collectively than you will be alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u141	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u142	While fifty-four departments and one overseas community have been placed under curfew, I welcome the reaction of our fellow citizens to such a decision: they measure the health issue that underlies it. Since March, we know that we must remain mobilized against the epidemic – when I say "we", I speak not only of the French, but also of national representation. We must be responsive and accountable, to empower the Government, to protect each and every one of our fellow citizens and to support a particularly difficult economy. Before I begin the examination of the text, I would like to point out that in the Committee on Laws, everyone has been able to intervene and express their fears and reservations, without ever minimizing the seriousness of the health situation. I want to believe that we will work in this way, still today, to achieve a balanced and protective text. The Prime Minister said that two days ago: the situation is serious. Parliament is once again demonstrating a remarkable capacity to adapt by pushing its agenda to include the bill extending the state of health emergency. Today, more than ever, it is important to remember that Parliament is working for the French and for the general interest. In this legislative process, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats constantly has in mind the search for a balance between the preservation of freedoms and the rule of law, on the one hand, and the security that we owe to everyone, individually and collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u143	It's a fragile balance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u144	Once again, we're on the rendezvous. Like you, I would have preferred to discuss many other issues, but the situation is what it is, and we must respond to it as best we can. The spread of the virus is worrying and requires a strong and rapid response. That is why our group will vote on the bill. The latter re-establishes a legal framework that we know, because we have helped to create it, after hours of debate. It enables the Government to take all necessary measures to combat the virus. It allows him to act with anticipation and reactivity. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I have heard the surprise of some people at the establishment of a state of health emergency. It is refusing to see reality in the face; It's making politics when the time is right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u145	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u146	We're responsible! It's about public freedoms, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u147	When we passed the State of Health Emergency Act last March, we knew that if the indicators were poor, this emergency regime could be reactivated. The Scientific Council has constantly alerted us, as in its opinion of 22 September: "France is facing a deterioration in the epidemiological situation. [...] This situation could, within a few weeks, lead to a saturation of care services in some regions or metropolitan areas, particularly in resuscitation, and could lead to an increase in mortality due to covid-19, but also to other diseases following a disruption of the care system. We know what's going on a month later: the situation is deteriorating very quickly, hence the need for a strong reaction from us. It is up to all of us to ensure that the state of health emergency lasts as little as possible. It may be interrupted at any time, as the spread of the virus decreases significantly. This exception regime must be limited in time, but must also remain an exception regime. If the health situation were to deteriorate further, Parliament would once again be in a position to legislate – and I believe that this is the fifth text on this subject since March. The Government is taking on its responsibilities, and we are on our way. Minister, I would like you to clarify the date of February 16 for the end of the state of emergency. What is the relevance of this three-month period? Is it a question of laying down the legal framework for possible local or wider confinement during this period?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u148	You're asking the question too! We're moving!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u149	The French have shown this: they are able to hear and understand your decisions, even when they are difficult, but to do so, we must act in transparency...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u150	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u151	...and do not give way to misinformation or bad information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u153	Opacity is born of incomprehension.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u154	We can't say better!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] So let us reassure the French by giving them the keys to understanding each of your decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u156	We share that conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u157	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u158	For almost a year now, a global pandemic has changed our lives and habits; Above all, it has already caused the death of more than 33,000 of our fellow citizens. Of course, we are aware of the seriousness of the situation. Last March, the Government decided to confine the country, leading to the cessation of our social and economic life. This may have slowed down the spread of the virus and saved lives. Despite the measures that have been taken, we are facing a second wave. We know that our rulers are facing as they can, and that they are sailing in an ocean of scientific uncertainties,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u159	They're sailing on sight, especially!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u160	... subjected to two opposing challenges: on the one hand, the gravity of the disease, giving rise to a macabre ritual in which, every day, the sick and the dead are counted; On the other hand, our real commitment to what underpins democracy and the preservation of freedoms – the first of which, that of going and coming, is threatened by various confinements. To limit the spread of the virus, and thus to ensure health security, all regimes apply little or no form of containment, and thus an identical solution: deprivation of liberty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u161	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u162	The vast majority of our fellow citizens resign themselves to this, even if a few are erupting from the turn that this fear of death makes our democracy take. That is why, although our repeated debates may seem to you to be cumbersome, Minister, we must bear in mind a principle that was still recently recalled by the Political and Parliamentary Review: the distinction between democracy and dictatorship lies precisely in deliberation and controversy, which allow us to discuss the measures taken, and consequently to secure the formal consent of free peoples to the decisions of their government. It is through the representatives of the people – thus, through Parliament, through us – that this debate must pass; Our objections and questions are therefore legitimate. We cannot be satisfied with a regime in which the legislative power would be ordered to endorse the decisions announced by the executive in the media after the fact – even if the executive is moved, as we know, by the idea that it does the good of the people. We cannot live in a republic of experts, because not only do the experts disagree with each other – as the debates on television show – but they are also not responsible for protecting the fundamental freedoms of the people: this is our responsibility, and we must assume it. The purpose of this bill is to give the Government the frankest to control the spread of the virus. It does indeed seem inevitable to take further restraint measures to save lives. We do not dispute the key measure of the text: the possibility of establishing confinements and curfews, limiting the freedom to go and come. However, the text asks us that, for six months, the Government should be able to take measures that severely or totally restrict fundamental freedoms, without Parliament having a say. We are assured that these measures will be strictly proportionate and necessary: perhaps, but why dismiss Parliament, when in recent weeks, and even this weekend, Members are sitting, are present in committee and are available to work? On the occasion of the previous draft law, the Constitutional Council had expressed reservations about the authorization of certain persons to access the personal data of the French in an information system. However, this bill provides for the extension of access to sensitive data to others. In addition, you ask us for a white paper to legislate by order on all or almost all subjects – economic, regal, administrative, medical, relating to the organization of public life – for six months. We cannot accept Parliament being excluded from the legislative process – you will certainly understand that. It is about respect for the separation of powers, the very foundation of our democracy. You have made very positive decisions that we have been accompanying for several months, such as economic support measures and partial unemployment, but you must take into account that this new bill comes at a time when our society is already sick, subjected to other hardships such as climate disruption or fundamentalist terrorism. Our citizens are exhausted and cannot accept such an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u163	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u164	So I ask you to think about it. Therefore, the Socialist and related group will not be able to vote for a project that provides for such restrictions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u165	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u166	For the past seven months, the state of health emergency has settled in our daily lives, an exceptional regime that so violates our most fundamental freedoms. If there is nothing to say that this is an illegitimate test inflicted on the French, we must admit that we have lost something in this state of emergency: the assurance of our freedoms. Against the most serious health crisis in France in a century, certain freedoms, including the most palpable, such as freedom of movement, have been traded. Gradually, our freedoms have been reduced to rights that the state distributes – an outdated state, which limits our scope of action. "Freedom is to know how to dance with its chains," Nietzsche wrote, but even dancing is now forbidden to the French – no one will rejoice. After confinement comes curfew, a sort of confinement that doesn't say its name and that gradually spreads. The same State, which had been outdated since the beginning, granted itself a sprawling extension of its interventions and prerogatives. This is the problem we are dealing with today: the impossibility that we would have to refuse, as a matter of urgency, an extension of State intervention, motivated by health security. In the face of the most oxymorical principle, the common state of emergency, it is imperative that we define the counterweight to an emergency regime that is increasingly ill-experienced. This power of constant discussion is Parliament's own. The very relative failure of the French to comply with the recent provisions does not constitute a certain consent. If the people are not directly consulted in such a demanding situation, then it is up to Parliament to speak: it is a first-rate necessity. We cannot accept that our freedoms will be reduced for so long without Parliament's supervision. We cannot be dispossessed by committees of experts to which the state relies, without a more regular and consistent parliamentary consultation. Science must not – and cannot – be a higher authority than democracy. I repeat, it is Parliament's responsibility to carry out a permanent monitoring mission. Exceptional law is not an excuse to silence criticism and replace democracy – especially since the violation of freedoms has a very heavy price, which the French pay every day in their daily lives. So what did the Government expect in six months? The situation of public health professionals is worse than in March, even as the crisis in the public hospital has long preceded the health crisis. After the lack of masks, the lack of beds and the lack of human resources, came the lack of tests, the new amputations for many of the Liberal nurses, and the traffic jams that are still looming in hospital services. You want to lock up the French, because you didn't give hospitals the means to do their job. So what did the government expect in six months? Think of the maintenance of municipal elections, a real democratic failure in terms of participation! So what did the government expect in six months to force bars and many restaurants, but also nightlife establishments to close – to never reopen for many of them? At a time when the first EMPs – state-guaranteed loans – are being repaid, we reiterate our proposals both for the cancellation of charges and for equity grants to all SMEs and EMPs, regardless of the number of their employees. Can the need for health efficiency overshadow any debate? Retroactive orders, lack of an assessment of the previous ones: you do not give much attention to Parliament. Our proposal is simple: if the state accords itself exceptional prerogatives, then this circumstantial right must have as its counterpart an automatic parliamentary control, which must be monthly. Such control is necessary for the maintenance of democracy. Because we understand the principle and regret the absence of this monthly check, we will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u167	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u168	I would like, without delaying the examination of the text, to give some elements of a response. [[Approvals on the banks of the LaREM Group – Exclaims on the banks of the LR Group]] I hear some Members, although they recognize that the time is serious and that we must take action, say that they will not vote in favour of them, saying that they are not the right ones or that they are the right ones but that this is not the right way to do it. Without being a lawyer, I want to say to them that it is like saying, when the house burns, that we must first discuss the colour of Canadair! As for those who consider these measures not the right ones, I ask them: "What are your proposals? How do you intend to protect the lives of the French and fight this virus? » Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Italy, Sweden, Israel and many other countries are taking similar steps – but perhaps everyone is going wrong! It is true that this virus is an evolutionary and little-known phenomenon, which retains a great deal of mystery, but make proposals! I understand that you consider that, as parliamentarians, you are intended to participate in the management of this crisis, without any form of action being imposed on you, but who, in this forum, during this hour of general discussion, has made any proposal?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u169	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u170	It is true that, through the voice of Mrs Obono, France has made proposals to protect the French. Tremble covid, we're going to nationalize a company that produces oxygen! Tremble covid, we're gonna cancel the state debt! The health police is a sovereign mission of the executive, under the control of the parliamentarians. That's why I'm here before you. I understand that Parliament would not have been sufficiently involved in the debate: from 17 March to 10 May, the health crisis was the subject of eighty-one hours and forty minutes of debate in the Chamber, in which I participated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u171	Tremble covid! These are arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u172	From 11 May to 21 June, this issue was the subject of 137 hours and five minutes of debate in this House, with my participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u173	What was it for?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u174	Tremble covid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u175	And I'm not talking about the Senate, or the government's question-and-answer sessions. We see that Parliament's place is respected. The text that I have the honour to present before you is the fifth text of a state of health emergency. I repeat: my ministry is not that of infuse sciences. If you have any solutions to offer to protect the lives of the French, I am listening to you and I will always be.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u176	Of course! Tremble covid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u177	It is so simple to vote against a health emergency text, Mrs Obono! We suggest that we have counter-proposals when in reality we don't propose anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u178	Respect the deputies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u179	Mrs. Obono, please...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u180	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] To announce, as you do, that you will vote against measures derogating from the state of health emergency, is to say that you do not want to allow the closure of discotheques, bars, the establishment of a curfew, the prohibition of rallies of more than 1000 people, the limitation of the number of guests to weddings in the parties rooms, the protection of hospitals, the extension of social rights. You do not want us to be able to provide hospitals with exceptional funding so that they can continue to operate. But what do you want, Mrs. Obono? What are you proposing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u181	The means of law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u182	Mrs. Obono, you're calming down!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u183	Mr Gosselin, I have a great deal of respect for the way in which you put the debate by defending your motion. We can exchange endless legal arguments,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u184	Tremble covid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u185	Mrs. Obono, I'm going to have to suspend the meeting. Now, silence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u186	Do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u187	...but my office obliges me to act, and quickly, to protect the French. I know you know that, Mr. Gosselin. But frankly, the words that your colleague from the Republicans, Mr Savignant, made in the gallery are beautiful as Dupont-Aignan! Totally critical remarks: we have done nothing right; We did not protect the French, we did not prepare the hospitals. If I was a caregiver, I'd think by hearing these debates, we're still very bad! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] I believe, for my part, that the time has come for national unity, for unity in the face of the health crisis. It is necessary to show the caregivers of this country that national representation is able to put its differences and old political bisbilles aside in order to devote all its time and energy to seeking ways to protect them and to help them protect the French. This is our distinguished mission, and that is why I am asking you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u188	To calm the spirits that warm up, I'm suspending the session for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u189	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u190	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u191	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u192	Mr Minister, you are calling for national unity invoking the seriousness of the crisis, but instead of responding to the speakers who spoke in the general debate, you are moving away and stigmatizing parliamentarians who do not agree with your method, even if they share, like everyone else here, the analysis of the seriousness of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u193	Assume!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u194	Suffer that we are doing our job as parliamentarians, which is to discuss, debate or not always agree with some of your orientations. That doesn't make us irresponsible who can be swept away with a back-of-hand view. I have asked you a question, to which you have not yet answered, Mr.Minister, when it concerns the only justification for this bill as it is written: Yes or no, is the general reconfinition of the French population on the government's agenda? The French have the right to know; The French have the right to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u195	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u196	One after another, we're all going to ask the same question: yes or no, will there be reconfinement? Citizens have the right to know. I would also like to reiterate that, in a state of health emergency, the emergency is to treat and not to lock up, confine or gag the population. The urgency, Minister, is to track, trace, isolate and treat. [[Interruptions on the banks of the LaREM group]] When you introduced the bill, you told us that yesterday there were 300 people in resuscitation, 300 people intubated and ventilated. So you want to kill them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u197	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u198	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u199	We know...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u200	Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u201	Can I talk, please?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u202	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u203	We know that in resuscitation, it is no longer appropriate to intubate massively, as we did last March: no more than 20 to 30% of patients are now intubated...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u204	You don't know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u205	...and we put the others on high-speed oxygen. Minister, perhaps you should revise your remarks, because what you say before the national representation is extremely serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u206	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u207	No, it's not scandalous, it's factual.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u208	I demand a public apology!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u209	That is what was said at the beginning of this sitting by the minister who is scandalous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u210	Mrs. Wonner is not masked!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u211	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mrs. Wonner uses a much more effective mask than yours. Just now, Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u212	Please, let Mrs. Wonner close in a few seconds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u213	I'm trying to answer various inquiries. I'll have a chance to do it later. I note that the minister gently turned his back on me when I was speaking from the gallery during the general discussion and that to show me that my mask was not in his opinion, he put the five fingers of his right hand on his. I hope, Olivier, you've already changed it! You present us a text that does not speak...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Wonner. Your time has expired. Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u215	Article 1 reads as follows: "The state of health emergency declared by Decree No 2020-1257 of 14 October 2020 declaring the state of health emergency shall be extended until 16 February 2021 inclusive. Articles 2, 3 and 4 make it possible to make all the provisions arising from the state of health emergency, in particular by enabling the Government to legislate by ordinance. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] As I said in the general debate, by doing so, you are disposing of Parliament's prerogatives, prohibiting it from making any proposals on crisis management. Minister, he's not deafer than the one who wants to hear. You have told us that we are not making any proposals, while everything is done in this bill to prevent us from making any proposals; Everything is done to prevent us from accompanying you in the major crisis that our country is going through. By asking for an authorization to legislate by ordinance, you show that you don't want to hear us. Please, minister, keep your nerves on: let us discuss calmly and do not stigmatize parliamentarians who have all been designated by the French people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u216	Parliamentarians doing their job!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u218	You don't guarantee it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u219	We come to five identical amendments, Nos 3.10, 56, 77 and 90, to delete Article 1. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u220	[[Continued exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It is intended to delete Article 1. The Government has not convinced us because, obviously, it does not have the arguments to do so if we consider the spectacle offered to us by the Minister of Solidarity and Health – I imagine that it will also benefit the Court of Justice of the Republic when it is held accountable...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u221	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u222	Please, we're not going to warm up at every intervention! Let the speaker speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u223	But it's provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u224	[[Same movements]] Keep your nerves on! A little cold blood, please! Show some sense of responsibility and decency! I know you miss it, but you'll have to get used to it. [[Same movements]] We support the deletion of Article 1... Maybe we need to ask for a session suspension so you can calm down?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u225	That's enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u226	Please, we're listening to our colleague! We are looking at the first amendment on the bill, and it is important that we listen. Yesterday, the discussions were calmed down; I think it can be the same today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u227	It doesn't depend only on the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u228	The Government has no argument other than that which it does not make, but which some colleagues refer to, according to which it intends to decree a general confinement. Had he adopted an approach of openness, transparency and respect for Parliament, he would have put this option on the table. Indeed, we are all responsible and, since the beginning of the crisis, we have all shown responsibility, bearing in mind the general interest of the population and the seriousness of the situation – despite the inconsistencies of the Government and the majority, which have not increased the confidence that the population gives you. We are the country of Europe in which people have the least confidence in what the executive is doing, in what you are doing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u229	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u230	It's not France that says it's unsuspecting; They are the French and the French in their majority. In our view, the legal framework that you have been working on for several months does not meet any need: common law already allows for action. The state of emergency is not opposed in principle by us – the Government must have room for manoeuvre – but it must be declared or extended, if necessary, within a clear and transparent framework, which is not the case here. That's why you don't convince us. We therefore call for the deletion of Article 1e r by formulating, as we have been doing for months, very concrete proposals which you do not respond to in substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u231	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u232	Parliament must be able to monitor the action of the Government. Without minimizing anything of the health crisis, there is no justification today for giving full powers to the Government to manage the next few weeks, until February or until April 2021. Parliament is sitting day and night, including weekends, as our presence today attests: why want to take away its prerogatives? Minister, you say that if we do not vote on your text, the curfew will be lifted on November 17. In other words, you take us hostage: either we give you a blank or we are irresponsible! By 17 November, more than three weeks remain to work, and the common law already contains useful tools. A trivialisation of the state of emergency in which we have been living since last March would not be healthy. Parliament must be able to control the Government, but the bill does not allow it to do so. I therefore request the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u233	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u234	In his speech announcing the introduction of a curfew on 14 October, the President of the Republic stated that this provision concerned certain points of the territory for four weeks and that he would ask Parliament to extend it until 1 December, which allowed for a total of six weeks. Finally, you come in front of us, but it's to ask us to sign a blank cheque and introduce a derogation for six months. First of all, I note a certain "distortion" between the words of the President of the Republic and the bill we are considering. Secondly, because the epidemic is evolving erraticly and unfortunately reserves many surprises to us, I, like other colleagues, believe that it would be much healthier and respectful of Parliament's prerogatives to grant authorisation only for much shorter periods of time, to ask the Government to come back to us and to exercise our control. In particular, this would allow the decisions of the executive, after discussion, to generate greater public confidence. We would thus be more effective in the fight against covid-19. In general, I invite us collectively to reflect. There has been a state of emergency because of terrorism, we have a state of emergency because of the health crisis, and we cannot rule out that tomorrow, in an increasingly tumultuous world, there are major crises, whether climatic or social: are a democracy, a rule of law armed to face the current period or should these gains be abandoned? We must not in any way be accustomed to doing so insidiously. The subject is serious enough for us to address it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u235	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u236	It is also intended to abolish Article 1e r, which extends the state of health emergency throughout the national territory until 16 February 2021, without any justification. The Government already has the necessary legal arsenal in the Public Health Code. Effective mechanisms must, of course, be put in place to combat the risks associated with the virus, but they must remain proportionate and not endanger our rule of law. The Government betrays its word. He was talking about territorialized measures; It again defies local elected officials and their management of the territories by taking general measures. The Government indicates that its tools under the 9 July 2020 law for exiting the state of emergency would no longer be sufficient, but it has never been able to deliver to us the objective reasons for not trusting us. He was never able to explain to us how our commons were no longer enough to manage the crisis. To justify its decision, the Government cites the opinion of the Scientific Council. However, I showed earlier that the three pages of this document were completely false.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u237	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u238	Article 1 poses two problems. The first is a question that we need to decide: yes or no, is it necessary to restore the state of health emergency in order to legally base territorial curfew measures? At this stage, we reply in the negative, both because of what the Constitutional Council said about the law of 9 July 2020 and because of the drafting of article 1, paragraph 1, of the same law. In fact, only the desire to declare a general reconfinition can justify the drafting of clause 1 of the bill before us today. The question has been asked to you once, twice; I will ask it as many times as it will be necessary to get an answer. Article 1 poses a second problem relating to the duration of curfew, already mentioned by Stéphane Peu. The proposed duration is not the one announced by the President of the Republic to justify local curfews – it is true that they extend, week after week, to new territories. He told us six weeks, it must be six weeks. Now you're talking about three months: that means you're pursuing another goal, on which you should be clear for our fellow citizens. Article 1 should therefore be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u239	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u240	The extension of the state of emergency for three months, which has received a favourable opinion from the Scientific Council, is now necessary, adapted and proportionate to the health situation. Since July last, opposition has criticized the transitional regime by stating that the Government must assume its responsibilities and declare a state of emergency if the situation so requires. Nevertheless, the majority did everything possible to repel this fateful moment, aware of the upheavals it would bring about. Today, no one disputes the seriousness of the situation and the need to act with the appropriate legal instruments, i.e. by extending the state of health emergency that has allowed curfew to be introduced. This measure is of course difficult, and it would have been better to dispense with it, but unfortunately it is necessary when we find that 42,000 new people were still infected on the only day of yesterday. I could have recalled what the Constitutional Council and the Council of State have written, but, like the minister, I am not a lawyer; Like him, I'm just a general practitioner. I have the feeling that some of you are asking us if there will be a reconstitution and when it will take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u241	We ask if it is in the plans of the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u242	In other words, we are asked to predict the future, but how can we predict it when we don't know the virus?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u243	Is it on the table?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u244	It is true that some had imagined a second wave; She's here, but we don't know how.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u245	We had to get ready for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u246	Is it due to the onset of the cold, to the holiday season, to the transmission by young people? We don't know the virus, we can't make forecasts, but we have to provide all the weapons to fight it. I repeat these figures, which are essential to me: there have been 1 million positive cases and 34,500 deaths, and for yesterday alone 42,000 new cases and 300 deaths, which is unfortunately one death every five minutes. In one week, the number of covid-19 patients hospitalized increased by 50%, as did the number of patients admitted to resuscitation. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I think it is an exceptional, extraordinary state of emergency: these three terms that you used in committee, Mr Gosselin, marked me. We are in an extraordinary, exceptional emergency situation – otherwise tell me from which figures you think we are reaching such a situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u248	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u249	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u250	Mr rapporteur, we do not ask you for an hour and a date of general confinement: everyone is aware that these are not elements that you can bring to the discussion. But we still hope that the Government has several options on the table, as it would be worrying if it navigated on sight and opted for a decision five minutes before a press conference. I hope that's not what you're telling us! It can be understood that you are only considering curfew for the moment, but it is also necessary that widespread confinement – even if no one wants to impose it on the population or impose it on themselves – be on the table and you have projections based on evolution and worst-case scenario possible. When we called you here – we were not the only ones – when Jean-Luc Mélenchon said that a second wave was quite certain, it was not for him to play Madame Irma: he repeated what was said by the scientists. He got his nose laughed when you said today that there is a second wave. So the question is: what is anticipated and anticipated, what is planned? That's all we're asking, but you don't put it on the table. That is why we cannot trust you on Article 1, nor on the whole of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u251	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u252	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I hear the rapporteur's clarifications, with figures. Can you tell us, however, what changes in relation to a huge flu? What changes in relation to a viral epidemic like the one we experienced in 2017, with an overmortality in January and February that year? What changes is that the measures taken by the Government prohibit, always and again, front-line doctors from treating their patients; They have to wait for them to be hospitalized. Yes, there are people in resuscitation today, yes, the health situation is extremely worrying, I do not deny it at all,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u253	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u254	...but what has been done since March to reorganize the hospital? The PLFSS which we have just completed and which will be voted on Tuesday is the PLFSS which we should have had in 2017: it will finally allow to redeploy the 4000 beds that we have been sorely missing for so many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u255	Three years late!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u256	The health situation is complicated, but mortality – because fortunately our facilitators are extraordinary and we know how to treat – is now less than 1%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u257	It's gravissim!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u258	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u259	The mere fact that we are gathered here on a Saturday to vote on this text attests to the exceptional circumstances of this text. Neither I nor the Group of the European People's Party on the move, nor any of the colleagues here here, are happy to vote for measures restricting freedom. The reason why we are doing this has been said several times, and you have them in mind. What you say about curfew or confinement is quite paradoxical. On the one hand you say that curfew is already too much, on the other you ask when confinement comes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u260	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u261	It's inexplicable. And it is legally incomprehensible, because both the decision of the Constitutional Council of 9 July and recital 8 of the opinion of the Council of State just given on this bill tell us that, as it stands, transitional measures to leave the state of emergency are not sufficient to allow the summons of people to their homes for health reasons. Last thing about what you say about parliamentary control: it was together that we voted for articles L. 3131-13 and L. 3131-14 of the Public Health Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u262	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u263	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These articles provide that we decide on the extension of the state of emergency, we decide on the duration of the state of emergency, we control the Government on these issues and gather all the necessary information. It would not be very consistent to ask the Government to decree, then to vote for a month, and then to redecorate the state of emergency and so on. I believe that the Government's duty of transparency is fulfilled when the dates are given to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u265	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u266	I would like to reply to the rapporteur, who is calling on me, and to the minister. They both have real arguments and no one challenges them. Nor does anyone seek to oppose doctors and lawyers – in this chamber, there is necessarily the alliance of both. You are a doctor, Mr rapporteur, I am not, so you have skills that I do not have and I very much recognise them. You have figures that are alarming, we do not contest them either. We must act, yes, it is obvious, but we must act through the law: that is the part of the jurists. What is at issue is not the action, but the legal form of the action. This is not a debate about the sex of angels.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u267	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u268	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] If in this forum where we are lawmaking, an act of extraordinary importance in a democracy and in a republic, we ourselves are not concerned about the rule of law, which will be so for us? I have no distrust of the majority: we could collectively find ourselves, perhaps on measures and perhaps on the legitimate right of Parliament to be consulted regularly. But here, we have a state of emergency until February 16th, which will continue until April 1st, and there are no re-visit clauses between the two. This raises real questions for doctors and lawyers alike.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u269	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u270	Prohibiting the movement of people in public space as soon as the virus circulates actively, and being able to close establishments receiving from the public under the same circumstances, is roughly the definition of curfew. This definition can be found in article 1, paragraph 1, of the law of July 9th – you can shake your head, counselor, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u271	Councillors don't have to shake their heads!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u272	At no time in the decision of the Constitutional Council of 9 July – that's expected number 15 – you will find no restriction on the possibility of implementing these provisions, which are called curfews. The legal debate, like the health debate, is therefore to allow for the re-establishment of a general containment. I do not dispute the assumption, I only want clarity on the objective. I'm not asking you to tell me the exact day...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u273	If we could know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u274	...but how the Government plans to proceed between territorialized curfew and territorialized or generalized reconfinition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u275	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u276	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] Everyone has understood this: for months we have been informing the French, we have provided them with clear, fair, appropriate information – these are the terms we use in medicine – and we make sure that they can understand it. We do so because we owe it to them, but also because it is by the French that the victory will come against this epidemic. We call for the solidarity of young and old, for the determined action of everyone in their daily lives. We are aware of the renunciations that this causes, which are considerable – not to be able to find ourselves in large numbers, not to be able to party, not to be able to invite all the guests we would like to marry, to wear a mask, a real one, to limit our movements, to change our ways of life for a period that we all hope to be as short as possible, but which is necessary. I am aware that this message can be complicated to understand and apply over time, and we have seen it at the end of the summer with a form of relaxation and difficulties in promoting a discourse of responsibility,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u277	A week ago, you encouraged people to go on vacation! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u278	Let us listen to the minister, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u279	... in any case with sufficient uniformity between each other, whether it be the political class or the scientists, so as to allow each Frenchman not to form an opinion on the basis of controversies based largely, alas, on certain plateaus, on fake news, but to understand things as they are. Mrs. Wonner, it is not my custom to answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u280	That's why you're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u281	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I usually avoid it and you blame me, but sometimes it's better. You said things of gravity that I consider extreme. You think it's nothing but a big flu that eventually causes only 1% mortality. We are 70 million French: if we were to achieve a collective immunity of 60, 70, 80% – we don't know how far this collective immunity should go – let's promise that we have – like you – 40 million victims of this coronavirus: do you accept that 1% of these 40 million must die?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u282	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u283	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] So, before you say it's a big flu, think about it. You are a doctor, you have no right to be mistaken when you say this: it is even more serious. Then you tell me that I let people die in resuscitation. I could tell you that the emotion I feel is linked to a form of personalisation, to which some are trying to train me, like Mrs Obono when she talks about the Court of Justice of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u284	You're tiring, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u285	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] But I'm not personalizing crisis management. When I speak in front of you, I try to do so on behalf of the teams in the ministry, in the Directorate General of Health, in Public Health France, on behalf of the caregivers, doctors, who expect us to have a debate to the height because they are afraid and because they spend their days and nights trying to save lives. Yes, Madam Member, it makes me angry when you say that because, through me, it is the entire medical community that you are insulting. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, you tweeted yesterday "There is a slight resurgence of covid patients". In three quarters of an hour, I will leave you to accompany the Prime Minister to Marseilles, where I will go to an emergency and resuscitation service, as I do every week. Like every week, I will see families of sick people, victims, caregivers mobilized day and night, and if I showed them your tweet – but I will not – I dare not imagine the horror in their eyes as the situation they face is decorated with what you describe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u286	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u287	Mr. Brindeau, you are asking legitimate questions. Is there a containment plan? Is the state of emergency the only legal corollary that will allow us to take further action? I am not the Council of State, which is, as its name suggests, an organ advising the State, and which writes to us black and white that a state of health emergency is necessary to take a curfew measure. You can contact them, it is your right as a parliamentarian; I'm not sure they're listening to you. Every week, and sometimes several times a week, in the National Defence and Security Council, I have the honour to report the health situation to the President of the Republic and to the members of the Government and the staff who attend it and to make a series of proposals based on this assessment. We are discussing this with all stakeholders on the board, in the light of the assessments. Since the first defence counsel – we've had about 40 – we've always come to a perfect agreement on when to take some kind of action. We take into account the health situation, the effectiveness of the provisions envisaged as being acceptable to the French. We know that some measures will act over a long period of time. The day before yesterday, the Prime Minister and I made it clear in the press conference that when we put in place a curfew, we know that we cannot hope for a result for at least 15 days. This means that it is early next week that we will be able to assess the first impact on the evolution of the incidence rate. If we put in place a curfew, it was not to bother the French, nor because we thought it would not work, but because we believe and hope that the measure will have results that will prevent us from taking other kinds of decisions. The President of the Republic himself, yesterday on the move, referred to other decisions that could be taken in the coming days if the health situation so required and if curfew was not effective. This is not a lack of transparency or a lack of willingness to debate with you, and this certainly does not mean that these possible new measures will be decided on a corner of the table, five minutes before a press conference. We cannot say such things, nor even think them: it is a thousand miles from the reality and the functioning of the state since the beginning of the crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u288	I didn't say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u289	Yes, it is. I'm only looking at you because I was responding to your entire speech. If further decisions are to be taken, they will be announced to the French and to the national representation; But there is not a hidden and dated plan, for which we would expect to have a legal framework. That's not how things are going. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Unfavorable opinion on all deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u290	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u291	I am basing myself on Rule 58 of our Rules of Procedure, because I have been called into question personally. Minister, since the debates in committee, you have designated me as a kind of Turkish head – I share this role with Mrs Wonner – and you refuse to answer my questions, which are similar to those of other colleagues, and to react to our proposals if not to question my person. It's ridiculous: no one is fooled by the false humility and rodomontades you show! [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] For the proper holding of the debates, dear Minister Veran, and to preserve what remains of credibility in the eyes of the public,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u292	Where is respect now?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u293	...it would be good if you answered on the bottom, as you are bound to. You must answer all Members, including those with whom you are in total disagreement and whose questions you think are beyond the bounds. You are bound to do so constitutionally and you do not have to be proud to never respond to a member of Parliament. Answer on the bottom, otherwise we risk spending a very long day! Your attitude leads to nothing but strengthening...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Obono.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u295	It's victimization!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u296	The minister took the time to answer you twice for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u297	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 13, 57, 43, 61, 89 and 102, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u298	This is a withdrawal amendment which replaces on 16 February 2021 that of 1 December 2020, which corresponds to the six-week period announced by the President of the Republic. The aim of the amendment is to denounce the method with which this text is presented to national representation. The state of health emergency is certainly a subject which, by nature and by definition, is urgent; But when it comes to individual rights and freedoms, we must give time to debate. Branding the public health scare must not grant the Government the right to override fundamental principles, especially when we demonstrate day after day that Parliament is able to mobilize and meet urgently. On the other hand, for reasons already widely mentioned and given what this entails in our economy and in our rights and freedoms, it seems inappropriate to extend a legal regime derogating from the ordinary law, which gives us all the tools necessary to act. Given the situation, it seemed dangerous for the Government to choose to deprive itself of the great wisdom of national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u299	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u300	It is also an amendment of withdrawal, which proposes to limit the state of emergency to one month, until 16 December. First of all, it does not seem to us very good to get used to an exceptional regime; Secondly, it seems important that, after a month, the Government return to the national representation to take stock of an unforeseeable epidemic and possibly extend the mechanism. This would allow the emergency regime to be proportionate and adapted to the needs of crisis management, while strengthening Parliament's control power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u301	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u302	This is another withdrawal amendment, which aims to limit the period of state of emergency to 21 December, the start date of the next school holidays. This gives us ample time to meet again to re-examine the situation. You don't have to make the law for us. I remind you that the role of Parliament is to control the Government. For the past six months, we have left you the reins, but the French no longer trust you to manage this crisis. It is time for Parliament to resume its full and complete role. We are not a recording chamber: we must be able to debate and vote on exceptional measures when the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u303	I call Mrs Pau-Langevin to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u304	It responds to the concern we expressed in the general discussion: we believe that in order to determine the policy to be pursued in the face of this serious pandemic, the executive and legislative powers must remain in close liaison, and that Parliament must be able to express its views on this issue on a regular basis. We therefore call for a reduction in the duration of the state of emergency from three to two months – when Parliament will be consulted again on the follow-up to the operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u305	I would like to make a point of order, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u306	I propose that you first support Amendments Nos 89 and 102, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u307	The point of order I wish to make relates to the organisation of our work and in particular to Rule 1; But either way, I'll do it after. The two amendments, which propose different measures, have the common objective of making the Government's action clearer and more readable. Amendment No 89 aims to reduce the duration of the state of emergency, whereas Amendment No 102 proposes to increase it. Minister, thank you for your long response to our inquiries. Of course, we agree: we cannot predict the evolution of the virus – no one asks – but we must have a legal arsenal that allows us to make quick decisions to protect the health of our fellow citizens. Where many of us no longer follow you, it is when we see that this legal instrument has the consequence of subtracting from the democratic debate a whole series of fields, not just that of health. Yes, rapporteur: this is the case for the economic field, the social field and that of individual fundamental freedoms – those of meeting or demonstrating. These questions cannot escape the regular democratic debate: this is the real problem of the drafting of Article 1. Everyone agrees or should agree – I hope that this is also the case with our colleagues in the majority – that regular democratic meetings with Parliament are needed. It is technically possible, we have been doing it since the beginning of the health crisis. This is the subject of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u308	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u309	It is based on Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning the organization of our work. Minister, I have just thanked you for the detailed answer you have given us. In this reply, however, you announced that you would leave us in 45 minutes to accompany the Prime Minister on a hospital visit. We can quite understand that the Minister of Health is accompanying the Prime Minister in this kind of travel, but understand our astonishment and frustration: as a minister who defends the text, you are best placed to answer our questions; But you will have followed only a little more than two hours of debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u310	Lovely respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u311	I guess it's Adrien Taquet who'll come to replace you in a few moments; It is not him that I am talking about, but I find it regrettable that while the Government decides to have Parliament sitting on a weekend,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u312	It's a communication strategy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u313	[[Approval on the benches of the LR group]] ...the minister in charge of the case does not follow the whole debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u314	Very good remark!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u315	What is the Committee's opinion on the amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u316	Unfavorable opinion on all amendments proposing different dates for the end of the state of emergency. I recall that the Scientific Council, whose position will not give rise to any challenge or interpretation, has issued a favourable opinion on the bill. He said, among other things, that "the winter months will be difficult with regard to the circulation of SARS-CoV-2". The three winter months run from December 20 to March 20; with the date chosen, on 16 February, the state of emergency will cover two thirds of this period, heavy with possible complications.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u317	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u318	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u319	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u320	I am speaking on the basis of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure, in order to contribute to the serenity of the debates. I would like to thank Olivier Veran for his admission of weakness. It is incredible to hear him say that usually he does not like to answer me, while we are in this beautiful house to debate! Since the colleagues' hustle and bustle did not allow me to hear what I was saying about resuscitation, I would like to clarify my point. You said, in your opening speech, that 300 people in resuscitation, it was 300 intubated people...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u321	Mrs Wonner, this is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u322	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u323	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm sorry, but it's very important for our fellow citizens to hear it: I'm sorry, but we don't have to intubate patients...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u324	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] A point of order is a statement to remind me of how I should apply the Rules of Procedure. So this is a challenge from the Presidency, and that was not the case with your speech. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u325	Our presence at all times of the day and night, at all times of the year, shows how much Parliament is able to mobilize when it needs to. It is legitimate for parliamentarians to work. What are the fears of bringing Parliament together? Nothing! We do not always agree, and some may think that it is a waste of time, but a democratic debate in a forum like ours is not a blush that must be suffered, but a democratic act par excellence. We need to provide for re-visiting clauses. The proposed amendments, without necessarily calling into question the state of health emergency, seek to limit its effects over time, which seems to me rather clever. We have mobilized several times in recent months, and we will continue to do so in the weeks and months to come. Why fear of bringing Parliament together? By creating a state of health emergency that would now go until 1 April 2021 – it would certainly be graduated but very real, according to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council in its decision of 9 July 2020 – you are actually plunged into a situation that normalizes the exceptional and makes the rule of law secondary. You use atomic weapons while conventional legal weapons would be enough to move forward. That is what we want to discuss, and we will certainly do so throughout the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u326	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u327	We are debating, and this is indeed legitimate, the date of the end of the extension of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u328	That's very legitimate, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u329	We believe in the moving Republic Group that we are going to have a second wave that will be at least as difficult to deal with as the first. I would just like to recall that then we all voted for a state of emergency of four months. In this bill, the Government proposes the same duration; There is, therefore, a form of coherence. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Several dates are proposed: December 1st, December 16th, December 21st, January 1st, January 10th, and even March 15th, after the one before you in the bill! It is difficult to find an appropriate date, but we want to make a consistent decision on what has already been done. We were able to measure the usefulness of the state of emergency during the first wave; Let us trust that it will be used for one single purpose: to protect the French from the outbreak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u330	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u331	Minister, we are in a complicated situation. There are not on the one hand those who agree with your position, and on the other hand those who dispute the seriousness of the health situation – I have heard some comments in this direction, but I do not agree with them at all. The situation was serious, and it was normal for the Government to take decisions that could limit the spread and circulation of the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u332	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u333	Almost all of the House supports this idea. The problem is the conditions under which our institution has to accompany government decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u334	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u335	I say it very clearly but friendlyly, I cannot understand why you remain frozen for four months. I have just heard Mr Rupin explain that it was a matter of consistency with what had been done in the first wave; But, at that time, we were in the unknown, and I could understand that the Government needs time. Today, we are not in the same situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u336	No, we have six more months!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u337	The review clause proposed by George Pau-Langevin and other speakers, such as Philippe Gosselin at the moment, allows our parliamentary institution to function fully. This is the condition of the national unity that you call of your wishes! Without this opportunity for Parliament to work with the Government, without this ability to dialogue and confront our positions in order to reach a point of convergence, there can be no national unity. That is true of the question of the date, but also of the modalities of the state of emergency – we will see about the demonstrations just now. I therefore call on the Government to make an effort and to understand that our desire is not to hinder its action, but rather to assert certain principles to which we are committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u338	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u339	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u340	This is a very representative example of the bad faith of the Government and the majority. Proposals are sent to you from the various benches to ensure that the state of emergency is implemented in other ways, more able to respond to the seriousness of the situation while respecting our parliamentary and democratic framework. You don't answer that. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is not enough to respond to some Members, preferably, and while you despise others, to consider you to be respectful of Parliament. You respect him even less when, after repeating how urgent it was for him to meet – we are there, present and present, and we will be there all day – the minister announces that he will go to a hospital. I imagine that caregivers will be very happy – and happy – to receive it, but this is not the first time you have done so, and I think it is more necessary to give them concrete means than to do communication. Unfortunately, I have the impression that the Government places too much emphasis on media communication over decision-making and respect for Parliament. This is another significant example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u341	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u342	I would like us to come back together with the opinion of the Scientific Council. According to that opinion, dated October 19, you decided to extend the state of emergency beyond four weeks. But I found it particularly thin – I mentioned it earlier. What's he saying? He referred to the warning note of 22 September, according to which territorially "adapted" and "proportional" measures should be preferred to a state of emergency and national containment, which did not appear necessary at that time. What changed your mind? We are here to hear the arguments that justify the brutal adoption of custodial measures, because they seem disproportionate to the health situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u343	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u344	I'm not a doctor or epidemiologist, but I practice a little law. I hear discussions about the nature and possible drift of the rule of law principle, but I find it difficult to see where this drift is. The law is composed of content, conveyed by procedures which the institutions are responsible for enforcing. What the texts of our positive law say is that, after a month, the extension of the state of emergency must be validated by Parliament. That's what we're doing! To build the law, we rely on the opinions of institutions whose reputation is no longer to be done, the Council of State or the Constitutional Council; They tell us that the measures planned are appropriate and proportionate, and that a state of emergency is essential to decide, in particular, curfews, all of which, in the medical world, agree that it is beneficial in order to cope with the difficulties encountered. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The draft law contains various authorizations, the type of legislation provided for in article 38 of the Constitution, which enables the Government to take action by means of ordinances. They are limited in time and by field, and must subsequently be the subject of a ratification law. The measures are taken under the control of the Constitutional Council when they are legislative, and of the Council of State when they are regulatory; In addition, the public prosecutor is informed of the individual measures taken. I do not see how the rule of law would be affected by the formal provisions that are being debated here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u345	That's good, you trust blindly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u346	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u347	It proposes a method for deciding on a state of health emergency. We believe that the establishment of such a regime must take place within the parliamentary framework, before national representation, instead of a consultation which takes place after the fact, once the Prime Minister's decree has been issued. Indeed, if we are to take the responsibility of restricting freedoms to this point and giving the Government exorbitant powers, we cannot do so a posteriori. That is the meaning of this amendment, which proposes a mechanism to enable us to react promptly to the situation. It aims to strengthen democratic guarantees of a state of emergency in the health sector, which is a state of emergency. Thus, it should be declared as a matter of principle following a vote in the National Assembly and the Senate authorizing the Government to establish it. The vote could also take place by meeting a quorum representative of the political forces of both chambers. In order to be renewed, the state of health emergency should also be the subject of a vote by Parliament 12 days – and not a month, as is currently planned – after its entry into force. This would provide a better framework, but would remain responsive to the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u348	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u349	It is categorically unfavorable. The adoption of your amendment would lead to a total impediment to the executive's ability and responsiveness to react in times of health crisis. The Government is adequately monitored; We are in the fifth bill and a sixth is expected to arrive in January.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u350	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u351	Unfavorable, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u352	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u353	In Mr Danièle Obono's proposal, I mean the desire to define a more permanent framework for a state of health emergency. This is perfect since, as you know, we will be debating from the beginning of 2021 a text that will allow us to define this framework together and to activate the state of emergency under conditions other than those that are now in place, as is the case with the state of emergency. I hope that you will vote consistently.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u354	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u355	I am satisfied at least that you hear the substance of our arguments, and that you understand that these are proposals that can secure all the measures in question. I remind you that for more than nine months now we have been called upon to comment on several texts; I believe that the setback allows us to be aware of the difficulties posed by the accumulation of legislation and the lack of anticipation. I do not think it is necessary to wait until January to upgrade the state of health emergency. Our proposal, if adopted, would provide a framework of greater trust and responsibility, both for the Government and for national representation. Why push back in January what we can do now, and what would make the bill more acceptable? We will continue to defend these proposals, as we have done since the beginning of the crisis, but your intervention is more in line with us; It should lead to our amendment, rather than delaying the decision, when the future is very uncertain and the crisis could worsen. Might as well secure the device right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u356	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u357	The debate is interesting; It underlines our common will for national unity, previously recalled by the Minister. I do not think that Mrs Obono's proposal is good; On the other hand, it contributes to the reflection that we must carry out in order to achieve the construction of a state of emergency in which the will for national unity is not just a discourse to reconcile the benches of our Chamber, but a tool for managing and managing the crisis. The extension of the state of emergency cannot be discussed under such conditions, without knowing the intentions of the Government and the graduation process it intends to implement. We have been telling you since the committee's examination of the text: in legal terms, the state of emergency has been triggered too early, because the measures taken so far could have been triggered without having to resort to a state of legal emergency. Its hasty start leads us today to discuss its extension, while it will allow the Government to take measures that it does not yet wish to put on the table. When we want to build a dialogue with Parliament and the French that allows national unity, we must put everything on the table from the start. You have to tell us today how far you intend to go, how far you are ready to go and what the possible red lines will be. It is only this transparency that will give you the confidence of the French and the national representation and allow you to have the national unity you so much want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u358	Mrs Pau Langevin, would you like to make a consolidated presentation of your amendments, Nos 68, 69 and 70?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u359	I can present Amendments Nos 68 and 69 at the same time, Madam President, but Amendment No 70 really deals with another subject. These amendments Nos 68 and 69 aim to make Parliament's control more effective. In the first, we call for the National Assembly and the Senate to be informed without delay of the measures taken by the Government. We propose to align parliamentary control with the state of emergency regime provided for by the Act of 3 April 1955, as amended by the Act of 31 July 2016. The administrative authorities would thus be obliged to communicate to the parliamentary assemblies all acts taken on the basis of the health emergency. During our work in the Law Commission, the President told us that the Government is making numerous communications to Parliament, including through a website. All this is still very indirect. It would be better if this were much clearer and we were really informed. In Amendment No 69, we call for any extension to be subject to the submission by the Government of a report to Parliament establishing the urgent need for this measure. You have just told us that any prorogation at the initiative of the Government would result in a bill, and therefore a report. However, as we often see the Government free from any useful communication in Parliament, it seems to us that this is much better by saying it clearly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u360	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u361	With regard to Amendment No 68, I would point out that when it mentions the administrative authorities, the Act of 3 April 1955 on the state of emergency refers to the Ministry of the Interior and the prefects. In the context of the state of health emergency, your amendment is satisfied since the Ministry of the Interior is already centralizing all prefectural acts. A summary, in the form of a weekly progress report, is also published on the Assembly's website, as stated by the committee chair. I am against this amendment. I also express an opinion against Amendment No 69, because I believe that flexibility should be left to the system, especially since it remains strictly framed. As for the urgent need for such an extension, I refer you to the opinion of the Scientific Council, which is perfectly clear on the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u362	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u363	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u364	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u365	We will support Amendment No 69 by Mr Pau Langevin. Madam Minister, you say that the Government intends to respect Parliament and its prerogatives to the maximum, that its democratic control over the action of the executive is legitimate and that the state of health emergency is a serious measure in terms of public freedoms. If you are sincere in saying this, then you must give a favourable opinion to this amendment, which aims to ensure that each parliamentarian is informed about the purpose and effectiveness of the state of emergency before its possible extension; It even seems to me to be pure common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u366	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u367	All colleagues here should agree with the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u368	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u369	Minister, Mrs Pau-Langevin's amendments correspond exactly to what you voted – which we voted – in 2016. Exactly! I don't know if we were wrong in 2016,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u370	Probably!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u371	You were sitting together!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u372	...but I have the feeling that you're wrong in 2020. To think for a moment that the health emergency requires more vacancy in the House than the state of crisis caused by terrorism is a view of the spirit that I do not share. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] For my part, I think it is necessary to provide for certain devices. I put myself behind what you and others had probably argued in 2016 for us to adopt this device.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u373	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u374	Our colleague's argument is very interesting: those who sat at the time on the same benches will be able to find themselves there. Apart from this, I believe that the Government is making a mistake. We may have differences on the measures to be taken – that's not necessarily the case, you understand. We can have real differences on the legal basis – and I maintain that this is a real issue in a forum like this. To dismiss Parliament is to make a mistake in strategy. I am not saying that Parliament has never been reunited, that would be excessive, but why should the executive and legislative powers in crisis management be opposed? We have the impression that the Government is on the side of the knowing: there is the scientific truth that results from measures that are necessary to us. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, The measures can, because the facts are stubborn, sometimes impose themselves on us, but the very nature of the policy is to be able to also try to take other approaches, sometimes complementary. It is in this sense that we – you, the executive, and we, the legislature – must be complementary. Having information on a site is good; To be able to exploit them and put them in perspective is still better! Why would you want national representation to be necessarily the enemy of the executive, of the Government, when the national interest is at stake? You are making a profound strategic mistake, which clearly undermines national unity and the acceptability of the decisions you make. We could work more together. That is what we demand in the interests of the French and French, in the interests of the nation – I say it with seriousness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u375	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u376	It is quite interesting that the debates should be more calmed so that they can be audible. I would therefore like to thank the colleagues who are insisting on this point on unity and the need for dialogue, because it is absolutely fundamental. I would like to correct a small mistake made by one of our colleagues: the first time, the state of emergency was not promulgated for four months,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u377	It was two months!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u378	... but for two months before being extended so much – and we had gathered to discuss this extension. Why is it necessary this time that, following the decree that was issued, we should be faced with such a long state of emergency?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u379	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u380	I would like to make some clarifications. When we created this state of emergency health system, we thought that the Government should be able to act very quickly. Hence the interest of making a decree enabling action to be taken in 24 hours if necessary, with a passage before Parliament within a very short period of time, which has been fixed at one month.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u381	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u382	That's what we do. Under the regime provided for by the 1955 Act, the Parliament extends the state of emergency at leisure, depending on the length of time it determines. That's what we do. Between 2015 and 2017, there were extensions of three months, but some lasted up to eight months...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u383	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u384	...depending on the circumstances and state of the terrorist threat at that time. We are here to deliberate on this length of time. The Government believes that the state of emergency health regime should run until February. I do not think it is useful to have a fixed time limit – one, two or three months – because, precisely, Parliament must be able to deliberate freely and freely according to the situation, and adapt the duration of the extension. Having a fixed deadline would therefore be a mistake. With regard to acts, we also provided in the law that information to Parliament would be provided without delay. It is in the law that sets the framework for a state of emergency – Mrs Pau-Langevin's amendment is therefore superfluous. For the benefit of Mr. Habib, I would like to point out that the acts the transmission of which is provided for by the 1955 Act are individual acts: administrative searches, house arrest. These are collective acts taken by the prefects, which are therefore in the thousands. At the time, we decided that the Government would immediately inform Parliament, without delay, and that Parliament would make a summary for publication. In order not to cause an embolism of the system, we agreed that there should not be a transmission of every act, knowing that there would be thousands. That's why we made that choice. In any case, I cannot let it be said that Parliament is not carrying out its control. As Sacha Houlié pointed out, Parliament is continually seized, we are deliberating, and the minister has explained himself for more than two hours before the law committee two days ago. If the minister is to be rehearsed on the application of the state of emergency, I will accede to this request, as I have made a commitment to Mr. Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u385	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u386	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The control of Parliament is therefore alive, which is to our credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u387	I call Mrs Pau-Langevin to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u388	This amendment raises the problem of freedom of demonstration. In democracy, even the existence of a serious health crisis is not enough to justify the ban on demonstrations. Last year, however, rallies of more than ten people were banned on public roads until June, when the Council of State suspended these restrictions on demonstrations on public roads. We propose that the new text should provide for the Government to regulate but not limit or prohibit such demonstrations, which would be contrary to democratic principles. Last Sunday, after the lively emotion aroused by the drama of Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, we were very numerous in various places in France, including in the Place de la République in Paris, to express our emotion. It's normal to be able to manifest when you want to express something. Whether the Government imposes certain restrictions, such as the obligation to stand at one another's distance or to wear a mask, is normal. On the other hand, it should not limit or prohibit demonstrations. Amnesty International drew our attention to this point, stating that this was not possible in a democratic country like ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u389	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u390	My opinion is, of course, unfavourable: it is not time to weaken the system of the state of health emergency. Mrs Pau-Langevin, you yourself answered the question: the tribute to Mr Samuel Paty took place, it was not prohibited.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u391	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u392	I will go along the same lines as the rapporteur, to remind you that the right to demonstrate is well guaranteed in the circular of 16 October.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u393	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u394	In support of Mrs Pau-Langevin's amendment, I would like to point out that in June the Council of State rejected provisions on the right of demonstration. It considered that there could not be, on the one hand, the authorisation of rallies of up to 5000 persons and, on the other, a limitation of the right of demonstration and the requirement of specific authorisations for those of more than ten persons. It is a distortion in the application of the law. An unfortunate event gave us an example on Sunday. Gatherings in tribute to Samuel Paty took place throughout France and in Paris, where we were numerous, in the presence of the Prime Minister. There will be others, especially at the time of the school year. The police commissioner had said that he would not prohibit Sunday's rally on the Place de la République, but that he could prohibit another one on another subject. No, freedom to manifest does not work like that; It must be guaranteed for all causes, respecting of course the health rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u395	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u396	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u397	I also support this amendment. Since the start of the state of health emergency, citizens have been concerned about their fundamental freedoms and rights, the first of which is the right to demonstrate. Today, in order to be allowed to protest in Paris, it is necessary to declare a demonstration two months in advance: it is an extremely restrictive regime. I was on Sunday in the seat of the Republic: all the demonstrators were masked and respected the barrier gestures, showing a great sense of responsibility. Moreover, an outdoor manifestation is not risky since, it is well known, the virus circulates less outdoors than indoors. Let us be careful not to limit once again the rights of our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u398	Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u399	Basically, we all agree. The decree of 16 October prescribing the general measures necessary to deal with the epidemic of covid-19 in the context of the state of health emergency sacralizes the right to demonstrate, which is obviously not to be called into question today – I would like to say so in the clearest way. The demonstration on 18 October, in which we all participated, took place despite the state of health emergency which entered into force on 17 October: this is proof that there is no ban. The demonstrations of more than ten people are not included in the list of prohibited demonstrations. I repeat, the right to demonstrate is sacralized. I would also point out that the application of the various provisions of the state of emergency is subject to the principle of proportionality, in accordance with Article L3131-15 of the Public Health Code. The Conseil d'Etat and the judge for interim measures have themselves stressed this. Removing the possibility of a ban would not be appropriate, as it may be necessary in certain exceptional circumstances. However, the principle that prevails is authorisation. The ban is the exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u400	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u401	If it is a question of demonstrating our firm and deep commitment to the freedom to demonstrate, there is no doubt that it is here unanimously shared. However, the wording proposed by Amendment No 70 is problematic, since it tends to replace the words "limit or prohibit" with "regulate". Regulating is tantamount to imposing restrictions through regulatory measures, and thus limits on the right to manifest. This wording would therefore be redundant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u402	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u403	On the occasion of this amendment, I would like to come back to the argument put forward by the Chairman of the Committee on Laws on the two previous amendments. Mrs Braun-Pivet, to justify the absence of a deadline for the extension of the state of health emergency, you are paralleling the state of security emergency related to the terrorist threat and you stress that, in any case, Parliament finally decides on the extension. Of course, but on referral to the executive! The distinction between the two types of state of emergency is absolutely necessary. It is so true that in January we will have before us a bill to perpetuate the legal regime for a state of health emergency. This amendment on the right to manifest is therefore perfectly understandable. The right to demonstrate must be understood differently depending on whether the state of emergency is safe or sanitary. The measures taken in either of these schemes are obviously not of the same nature. With regard to Mrs Avia's argument that the right to protest would be protected by the decree of 16 October, forgive me for reminding me that this fundamental right falls primarily within the legislative sphere. To include it in the marble of the law is indispensable, including to secure the decree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u404	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u405	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u406	Madam Chair of the Law Committee, the law of 23 March 2020 to deal with the epidemic of covid-19 is indeed inspired by the law of 3 April 1955 on the state of emergency – a law that can, it is true, be described as "safe" – but comparison is not right. The effects and provisions resulting from these texts are different, hence the assessment that we will soon be conducting together in order to build a sustainable framework for the state of health emergency. Let me be a little teasing, minister. You said that the right to protest was enshrined in the October 16 circular. It is therefore a circular that now ensures respect for our fundamental freedoms! There is cause for concern about respect for the hierarchy of norms and the rule of law. No doubt it was a mistake on your part... The statements made before us in April and May 2020 did not suffer from any possible mistakes: the Government asked us to trust him and assured us that he was not a liberticide and would remain vigilant. Either, but the Council of State has intervened twice on the subject of freedom of demonstration: on 13 June, suspending the general and absolute ban on demonstrations – excuse for the little! –; on 6 July, by suspending the decree imposing a system of prior authorisation for the organisation of any demonstration on the public road. Proof that we should be careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u407	I call Mrs Pau-Langevin to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u408	It concerns another area of concern, of which I know that it worries Members on every bench: the future of the living spectacle and the world of culture in the context of the pandemic. Since March, theatres and cultural professionals have been in great difficulty. The problems began to move away when curfew was decreed. The theatres had taken steps to ensure physical distancing between the spectators. We could continue to have a cultural life without calling health security into question. With the curfew, a new blow of the club was carried to the theatres. This amendment calls for an exception to be made for theatres and cinemas and for them to remain open when the show starts before the time of the ban. Without that, death is assured! In any case, is such a restrictive curfew really justified?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u409	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u410	In order for curfews to be effective, and it must be effective, we no longer have a choice: we must apply a clear and perfectly intelligible rule. The Government has chosen not to allow derogations: this is a coherent decision, even though I understand the disarray of cultural actors. I therefore welcome last Thursday's announcement by the Minister of Culture of the release of an additional €115 million for live entertainment and cinema. Other sectors could be tempted to request a derogation – Mr Marleix has tabled an amendment for restoration – and their request will also be rejected. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u411	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u412	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u413	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u414	Amendment No 70, tabled on the initiative of our colleague Michèle Victory, deserves our full attention. A few days ago, the Minister of Culture herself announced that she was in favour of derogating from the provisions for the cultural sector, so that the French and French who would go to a musical or theatrical show could exceed the fateful curfew hour. For many months, actors in the world of culture have been hit hard by the health crisis, which has plunged them into an economic crisis of extreme intensity. There is much to bet that small theatres and theatres will be forced to close in the near future. The consequences of the health crisis for the cultural ecosystem are very negative. The amendment tabled by our colleague Olivier Marleix, briefly mentioned by the rapporteur, also calls for a derogation from curfew for restaurant customers, on presentation of proof from the restaurant owner. It is important that national representation be at the bedside of these sectors of activity that are essential for our country: they are economically essential, but also because they embody the French spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u415	Concrete proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u416	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u417	I fully sympathize with the professionals in the entertainment world and I was pleased for them with the derogation envisaged for a time by Mrs Bachelot. However, after reflection, I believe that such a derogation would be profoundly unequal. Why grant an exception to those who go to theatre and movies and not to those who play sports or watch games?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u418	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u419	Like the rapporteur, I would like to welcome the additional aid granted by the Government to live performances and cinema, announced by Mrs Bachelot at the press conference of the Prime Minister on 22 October, at which the extension of curfew measures was presented. This 115 million is a welcome aid, which reflects the support given by the Government and the majority to the cultural sector, particularly affected by the establishment of a state of health emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] I also welcome the adaptability and responsiveness of cultural institutions and theatres in some municipalities for the past week. By adapting their schedules, they were able to maintain their cultural offer. The work of adapting cultural actors, in conjunction with the Government and local communities, is quite remarkable. I want to tell them they have our full support!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u420	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u421	Of course, we welcome the support granted to the cultural sector, but why once again stigmatize the players in this economic sector? Live entertainment accounts for 2.3% of gross domestic product – but what remains of it today? However, since the beginning of the health crisis, cultural professionals have been able to adapt by taking precautions when it comes to distancing and wearing masks. [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Government has still not replied: why has it imposed on the 67 million French people a measure as radical as curfew? I'm never comfortable comparing the different causes of death, but do you know the number of people who commit suicide today because the future you're preparing for them is so dark that they decide to end life? The plays and the live show keep the light in this dark period: the light in the rooms, but also in the heads of our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u422	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u423	First of all, the French are not all equal. In some places, if you get out of a showroom, you're home in a quarter of an hour. In others, you need an hour to get home. The world of living entertainment is making great efforts to adapt. Therefore, it would not be incongruous to accompany this sector a little bit. I still do not understand why a train ticket can be used as a pass to return home, for example if the arrival at Montparnasse station is scheduled at 9:10 p.m., while a showroom ticket cannot fulfil the same function. I could probably say the same about restaurants, a subject that we will come back to later. It is possible to establish a very strict regime without destroying all the spaces of sociability and culture in our country. While it may be more difficult to measure than others, the psychological state of one country is an indicator that must also be taken into account in the management of a crisis such as that we are going through.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u424	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u425	By this amendment, we propose that contraventions made as a result of non-compliance with the measures taken in the context of the state of health emergency should not be entered in the criminal record. As we have been saying for several months, the contradictions that exist within the various instructions and counter-consignments of the Government have given rise to doubt and mistrust. However, almost the entire population has followed the somewhat consistent health guidelines that have emerged, such as compliance with containment. This has led to a sharp slowdown in the spread of the virus and the end of the first wave. Despite what has been heard here or there, it is not because of the so-called disobedience or unconsciousness of the population that we are now facing a second wave. In our view, the Government is wrong when it puts more resources in the enforcement of behaviour rather than in the protection of the population. This aspect is highlighted in some speeches, sometimes even in a discriminatory manner, since the Government has repeatedly welcomed the fact that more controls have been carried out in some departments, even though there is no objective reason for such a difference in treatment. That is why we propose this measure which we believe...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u426	Thank you, Mrs. Obono. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u427	What convictions are we talking about? Violations of the requirements of the state of health emergency or transitional regime verbalised more than three times within 30 days, which can be punished by six months' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 3750 and a supplementary penalty of work of general interest. We are in the case of recidivism and repeated, therefore deliberate violations, far from the situation you describe. It should also be recalled that, despite the usual protests by some, all courts have upheld the principle of this offence and its functioning, which fully respects the rights of the defence and the principle of adversariality. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u428	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u429	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u430	Mr Pascal Brindeau, first on Rule 2, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u431	The debate on Article 1 is now behind us. If the law is finally passed, the state of emergency, which has been restored for a week, can be extended until 16 February 2021. Of which act. There is nothing, however, either from the point of view of the health situation or from the legal point of view, which justifies only in the same text, you asked us both to allow you to prolong the state of emergency and to provide for measures derogating from the common law which, tomorrow, will organise the exit from this state of emergency. In the first wave of the covid-19, my group's Members agreed – like many others here – to adopt a state of health emergency after discussing it in a very short time. On the other hand, transitional measures have been the subject of subsequent legislation, because it has been necessary to analyse the consequences, benefits and effectiveness of a particular restriction of freedom and then to discuss it again before choosing to maintain or end it. This is the logic of a text that should be discussed from January onwards, in any case before the state of emergency is lifted. It is not only possible to do so – it has already happened – but it is even a democratic necessity. Article 2 should therefore not be voted on as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u432	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u433	I fully agree with Mr Brindeau's remarks. We cannot allow ourselves today, as we come together to debate, to validate Article 2, which consists simply of making two strikes with one stone by announcing to us very clearly that the state of health emergency will be extended by another three months. But perhaps the Government has other intentions. It is planned – indeed, the Minister of Solidarity and Health repeated it at his hearing in committee – that we will debate a text in January. I am very curious – like you, I imagine – to know the content of it. But let us be clear-sighted: do we not want to be made aware today that the state of health emergency will be definitively enshrined in the common law? Again, I wonder about the need for such a measure and its proportionality in view of the current reality of the viral epidemic in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u434	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u435	Let's go back to the genesis of the state of emergency: its initial duration was two months, then it was extended by two months. The transitional regime for exiting the state of emergency, which is in fact a degraded state of emergency, was then created. You are now proposing that we start from the outset over six months – a measure that you justify by saying that you will be able, at the end of this period, and working on it from January onwards, to create a lasting legal framework for the state of health emergency. But I am beginning to think that January will not be the right time to start this kind of reflection. We discussed the need to launch such a project last March, when the state of health emergency was created. We felt then that a year later we would have emerged from the crisis and that we could have a return of experience and legislation quietly in order to create in law a permanent system of state of emergency health. It must be noted that by submitting this bill today, the Government considers that in January, we will not have emerged from the crisis. However, we cannot legislate to create a lasting mechanism if we are in the midst of a crisis. Let us therefore stick to a logic of crisis management, which requires daily mobilization, including parliamentarians – not for ego reasons or because we like to be in the Chamber, but because we are the only vehicle for accepting the restrictions of freedom imposed on our fellow citizens. The debate is, in fact, less about the measures themselves than about the accession of the French. Understand that if for five months we do not debate the measures taken, their acceptance by public opinion will gradually become null and void.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u436	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 5, 19, 26, 47, 58, 78 and 92, aimed at deleting Article 2. Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u437	We call for the deletion of this article, which, as demonstrated by the interventions of our colleagues, reflects a mixture of trial and haste on the part of the Government. Of course, it is asking us – we have often been told that Parliament has met five times – but it is not enough to convene Parliament to act in a democratic way. Asking Parliament, as you do, to bind its hands for several months does not really contribute to the democratic life of the country! Your bill is a contradiction that has already been pointed out. You will indicate that we will discuss in January the sustainability of emergency response devices, but you are already extending beyond that date certain provisions that will allow the executive to always have the hand. If you trust national representation to empower the Government, but also to take decisions, to propose a framework and actions that will address the health, economic and social crisis – because the impact is not only on the health sector but is much wider – then we need to call on Parliament more regularly and not provide for an extension of the transitional regime. This will in fact lead to the introduction of legislation aimed at persevering certain provisions giving the executive exorbitant powers – because that is what is in article 2 watermark. That is why we are calling for its abolition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u438	I call Mr Pierre Cordier to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u439	While the draft law extending the transitional regime established upon exit from the state of health emergency was adopted by the National Assembly less than a month ago and was promptly removed from the Senate's agenda on the eve of its vote, the proclamation of a new state of emergency shows the Government's unpreparedness in the face of this health crisis. As has been said by various colleagues, Parliament is not a registration chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u440	That's what you still think!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u441	... and must be able to debate and vote on these exceptional measures. An extension of the law of 9 July 2020 organizing the exit of the state of emergency until 1 April 2021, even though the Senate had limited it to 31 January 2021, is therefore not acceptable. That is why we are calling for the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u442	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u443	This article raises several questions. By coexisting within the same text two legal regimes, the state of emergency health on the one hand and the exit from the state of emergency on the other, you are scrambling the maps. Why don't you show your good faith in announcing this famous re-visit clause that we've been talking about since this morning? It would be common sense itself. How can you foresee today, 24 October, the situation that will be ours next February and a fortiori in April? The re-visit clause seems necessary to me to distinguish between the two regimes: the state of health emergency and the exit from the state of health emergency. Moreover, you cannot continue to muzzle Parliament for such a long time. Understand well that MPs – like senators, I suppose – cannot agree to give the government a blank meeting for six months. It's totally unthinkable. Why don't you just stop sitting? The situation is incomprehensible to the French: while we will shortly be considering a bill on separatism, proposals for a law on global security or on the strengthening of the powers of the municipal police, why can we not discuss issues relating to the state of health emergency? That doesn't make any sense. That is why I am asking for the deletion of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u444	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u445	It must be borne in mind that with this clause, the bill is a rocket that, like lunar rockets, has two floors. She even has three if we count the orders – we will discuss it again in Article 4, rapporteur. The first floor is the strong measures justified by an exceptional situation which is supposed to lead necessarily to a state of health emergency. If we, the Republicans, do not dispute the reality of the situation, we contest the means of law used in these circumstances. Let's take this first floor and take the course that leads us until February 16 – but not at all: Article 2 providing for the exit of the state of emergency on April 1, we are actually entering the tunnel of the state of emergency for six months! The Constitutional Council, in its famous decision of 9 July 2020, did not say anything else. He concedes that the legal regime for exiting the state of emergency – the one we are discussing in this article – is the degraded state of emergency... but it is still one, so always an emergency regime which must protect an objective of constitutional value, that of protecting the health of our fellow citizens, but which also tramples on fundamental rights such as freedom of movement and coming, freedom of worship, freedom of assembly and association, freedom of trade, etc. Such an extension therefore deserves the full attention of our assembly. It may have to be resolved for specific reasons, but at least we can discuss it here, for example in January, under this famous re-visit clause. We can't consider leaving at the same time as we vote for a state of health emergency!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u446	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u447	Many arguments were made for the deletion of this article. I think, like many colleagues, that there are two distinct subjects: the emergency measures to be taken in the face of the epidemic recovery and the exit from the state of emergency. But meddling them in the same law, which is more so when the Government has just interrupted the debate in the Senate on the extension of the transitional exit regime, appears above all as a political operation aimed at circumventing the difficulties that have arisen in the Senate by putting everything in a new text. But how can we say, on the one hand, that we must constantly adapt to an epidemic on which we do not have visibility – which we understand very well – and, on the other hand, ask us today for a blank cheque for the next six months? We prefer to distinguish between the extension of the state of emergency and that of the transitional regime of exit, and that the Government should come back to national representation much more often so that we can assess the fair proportionality of each emergency measure at each stage of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u448	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u449	Not content with asking us for a three-month extension of the state of emergency, the Government takes the opportunity to make two strikes with one stone by asking us for this extension until 1 April 2021. At the time, we questioned the need to move through a transitional regime similar to a state of health emergency that did not bear his name, already indicating that the regime provided for in article L. 3131-1 of the Public Health Code allowed for measures that were proportionate and sufficient to the situation. The real reasons for the Government's extension of the transitional regime after 16 February 2021 are therefore cause for concern and concern. Let us warn, ladies and gentlemen: will we agree to sign a blank cheque to the Government until 1 April 2021, when the latter clearly indicates in the explanatory memorandum the purpose of the manoeuvre: to make us wait until the final burial of our Rule of Law in a new text which will include these exceptional measures in the common law? Remember the experiment led by biologist Jean Rostand: a frog thrown into a pot of boiling water leaps and runs away, but when the cold water is heated gradually, the frog stays there and ends up dying boiled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u450	Frog syndrome is well known! Sleeping, banalization!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u451	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 92.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u452	I have a real question about the very constitutionality of this article since, as Philippe Gosselin has explained in particular, it provides for measures to leave the state of emergency derogating from ordinary law but which, by the same token, remain a form of state of emergency, which makes two state of emergency regimes coexist in the same text. Of course, this is not simultaneously because one regime must succeed another, but the principle of the intelligibility of the law seems to me to be undermined. After the legal reasoning, there is the more political reasoning: for the Government to gain a minimum of support from our fellow citizens for measures to restrict their freedoms, they must at one point be able to understand why it places two articles of successive application in the same text when, in the first wave, a new text was fully democratically debated after the vote on the first state of emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u453	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u454	There are currently two committees of inquiry and an ongoing fact-finding mission in the House, and they are carrying out their monitoring tasks; the Government informs Parliament every week of the measures it takes in the context of the transitional regime and the state of health emergency; We are studying the fifth bill in eight months on this issue; Ministers are constantly present in committee and in public sitting to report on their actions – I refer you to the statement made earlier by the Chair of the Law Committee; Finally, Parliament will also be asked to study a sixth text on the sustainability of emergency response systems in January this year. As the regime for exiting the state of emergency comes to an end on 1 April, as we envisaged in the law of 23 March 2020, it seems to me useful to put us in a medium-term perspective in order to be able to address this particularly important discussion usefully and calmly and to devote ourselves to it fully. The transitional regime has proved its worth in organizing, this summer, the gradual exit from the state of health emergency; It will again be intended to accompany the period from 17 February to 1 April. Finally, I categorically refute the idea that France would be plunged into an endless state of emergency. Necessary and proportionate measures are taken to protect the health of the French; they are authorised by Parliament and have been validated by the Constitutional Council, the Council of State and the Scientific Council; They are controlled by the National Assembly and the Senate, which thus exercise their constitutional prerogatives, and then by the judge, who ensures that all the constraints laid down by the legislator are respected. I think, Mr. Gosselin, you have your consistency as I have mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u455	Maybe they'll join one day, who knows!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u456	If they're parallel, it'll be hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u457	But I would remind you that on 1 October, our Assembly voted here a transitional regime valid until 1 April, which you call "the degraded state of health emergency". If the legislative procedure had taken its course, we should already be in CMP or second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u458	But that's when the debate was suspended in the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u459	[[Smile.]] As a result of the tragic situation, it was necessary to provide for a more important mechanism, i.e. the declaration of a state of emergency by decree for one month, extended by legislation for three months, which is four months, the rest of the time being covered by the transitional regime. There will therefore be a state of emergency plus a small degraded state of emergency, to resume your formula, but not the extension of a degraded state of emergency from beginning to end... I think it's the same thing. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u460	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u461	First of all, article L. 3131 of the Code of Public Health does not allow it alone to take all the necessary measures to ensure the continuity of the management of the crisis upon exit from the state of emergency. Then, just as the transitional regime should be applied when the current period is over, let us remember that this transition can take place before 16 February 2021, which we all hope, if the health situation permits. It is therefore a good administration that this extension is already included in the law rather than filing a dedicated text a few days before the end of the state of health emergency. So you cannot, Mr Cordier, except to be inconsistent, blame us for being both in short-term unpreparation and in long-term unpredictability. In addition, this extension until 1 April 2021 received a favourable opinion from the Scientific Council on 19 October 2020. Finally, I would like to point out that the transitional regime is not a blank one given to the Government: it is governed by the principles of necessity, proportionality and adaptation to the circumstances of place and time, subject to the supervision of the administrative judge, and it is the subject of regular information to Parliament. That is why, Mr.Brindeau, the Council of State has clearly established that there is no problem of unconstitutionality. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u462	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u463	The Minister and the rapporteur have explained this well: our country was already in a transitional regime and, if it allows, as its name suggests, to move from one state to another, it remains that a virus, an epidemic unfortunately does not disappear overnight – what we are currently experiencing proves to us. That is why our country is returning to a state of health emergency. Since the beginning of this debate, much has been said about our role as representative of the French and French. Among them, there are also those who are now in hospitals. This is a situation of serious crisis, in which we must be vigilant. I hear this little music that sums up everything to the question of the number of seats in resuscitation, but this indicator must not be our compass: if someone finds himself in resuscitation, it is a failure. We must therefore take important, unfortunately serious steps to prevent people from being ill. The metaphor of the frog evoked by Mrs.Wonner reminds me of another metaphor, that of mithridatization, which is also questionable. In any case, it is not because tritherapy has proven its effectiveness that condoms should no longer be used, and the current situation is exactly the same: people should not go to hospital and, to do so, make serious decisions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] I will finish by giving my doctor's point of view – sorry, but I return to my basic profession. I have a deep respect for our institution and also for the profession of treating physician. But if we have a heart attack, do we call him to see if we have to take the ambulance or the helicopter, if we need a stent or two, and, 15 days later, if we need to do a coronarography again? Of course not. There is a time when we need to realize that there is an urgency and that we need to make quick and clear decisions. The state of emergency does not call into question Parliament's freedom! We must all be aware that French people are in danger; the total failure would be that they all end up in resuscitation. Let's protect them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u464	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u465	If I listen to the words of our respected rapporteur, I have to make myself a reason... The text adopted here on October 1st and which should have been debated in the Senate before its withdrawal by the Government already providing for the date of April 1st, will be so – circulate, there is nothing to see! You say it more elegantly, rapporteur, but according to the logic that is yours. The real logic for us, however, is not to refuse any procedure for leaving the state of emergency or to deny the Government the means it requests, but to reaffirm Parliament's inalienable and imprescriptible rights to debate a crisis situation. By granting you the extension of the state of emergency by voting on section 1, Madam Minister, the majority of this House has already given you the means to deal with the crisis. But by going until 1 April, we would prolong an exorbitant situation of common law – a state of emergency – in a way that may be unfair, even if we could do so, if circumstances justified it, in a proportionate and responsible manner, by debating again in February. We know how to work fast. This text was presented to the Council of Ministers on Wednesday, it was discussed in the Law Committee on Thursday, and today we are debating it in a public sitting: we know how to do it! Why don't you want Parliament to meet on this issue in January? That would be possible and would, I repeat, make it easier for our citizens to understand the issues and to facilitate the acceptance of certain decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u466	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u467	You indicate, Madam Minister, that, according to the Council of State, there is no unconstitutionality to coincide with section 1, which extends the state of health emergency, and section 2, which deals with the regime following the same state of emergency, in the same text. Since the Council of State is not, until proven otherwise, a constitutional judge, it will certainly be up to the Constitutional Council to decide. You have also stated that nothing would prevent, if the health situation improves, the activation of the transitional provisions provided for in Article 2 before 16 February, i.e. before the end of the state of health emergency. This is not true: while it is possible, in the context of the state of health emergency, to lift certain restrictions, it would be necessary, however, to switch to the transitional regime, to wait until the time limit which has now been laid down in the law has expired. All this to say that, as Philippe Gosselin pointed out, Article 2 merely establishes a state of emergency on an almost permanent basis, until 1 April. Therefore, in the interests of consistency – this was the subject of one of the amendments defended by Jean-Christophe Lagarde – you should be clearer with our fellow citizens and tell them that the health situation will not improve until 16 February, that the active circulation of the virus will probably continue until April and that it is therefore the state of emergency which must be established until that date. It is this need that we should debate again in January, when knowledge of the epidemic situation is better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u468	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u469	In the course of the discussion, many people expressed their views as lawyers or doctors. I am neither – it is true that these were for a long time the socio-professional categories most represented in the National Assembly, even if the situation is changing a little – and above all, it is not simply a question of positioning oneself as an expert. Indeed, there are many controversies among the lawyers, for example regarding the somewhat weak legal status of the regime that we are debating – some lawyers speak of "grey zone" – and that you want to bring back through the window through Article 2. There are also many debates among scientists about the virus and its evolution. The challenge here, therefore, is not to oppose the expertise, but to take on our responsibilities as parliamentarians, in order to judge the advisability of a particular measure. The more we can do it together and in a concerted way, the more the country will be able to respond to a situation that everyone agrees is changing. What you are proposing is to deprive us of this reactivity: by giving it to the Government, to which full powers should be entrusted and to grant broad prerogatives, you are taking it away from Parliament. You cannot claim the opposite, especially since we would not be deprived, in fact, if we did not adopt the text proposed to us as it stands. There are, in fact, in the ordinary law – not only in article L. 3131-15 of the Code of Public Health, but also in other texts – ways that would allow us to react if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u470	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u471	It is true that a number of legal colleagues assure us – I welcome this – that Parliament will be able to be responsive if it is asked to meet in the coming weeks. I am totally convinced of this – that is why I proposed, on behalf of the Freedom and Territory Group, the deletion of Article 2. However, I would like to go back to what our colleague doctor has just said, to thank him for that. I am indeed very concerned about the way in which we conceive of public health in France. Yes, treating physicians are able to treat their patients...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u472	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u473	...and they must be able to do everything they can to prevent them from being admitted to resuscitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u474	With what treatments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u475	So I want to reassure the citizens who are looking at us – they are thousands, don't doubt for a second – and send them a positive message: yes, yes and yes to respect for the gestures of barriers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u476	Start already by wearing a real mask!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u477	I will provide you with all the scientific references showing that the mask I use protects much better than the surgical mask.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u478	No, thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u479	The masks of this type have never been validated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u480	But that's not the point. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Yes, we can treat early; Yes, we can prevent the elderly and the most vulnerable – who are the first to be affected – from ending up in the hospital; Yes, we can protect the population: medicine in France can do all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u481	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-24-O1038.u482	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill extending the state of health emergency. The meeting is adjourned.
