ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law introducing security measures against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence (No 3238).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u2	I call Mrs Braun-Pivet, rapporteur of the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u3	I am proud to present to you the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee, which has reached agreement on this bill which I have worked so hard on. Parliament can also take pride in this text, first because it comes from it, then because the cross-examinations of our two assemblies have led to provisions that I think are right and useful. That is the strength of our Parliament. This bill follows, indeed, the work of the parliamentary delegation to intelligence, common to the two assemblies, as well as the pluralistic control of the SILT law – strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as SILT law – of 30 October 2017. We are facing a proven threat, confirmed by counter-terrorism actors, the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, the Directorate-General for Internal Security and the national intelligence coordinator. Individuals convicted of terrorism will be released from prison. Some are still dangerous. Our responsibility is engaged. When one of these actors in the fight against terrorism tells Members that he is afraid, we must act, especially since the risk is, alas, not theoretical. Attacks have already been committed on our soil, in Paris, Nice, Trebes, and even in our prisons, in Osny or in Condé-sur-Sarthe. Of course, criminal policy is not built by playing on emotions. I don't think so. On the contrary, we must assume our responsibilities and determine objectively whether we have the legal instruments to deal with this threat. However, if there appeared to be many preventive and repressive measures, which would require greater coherence and readability, the enumeration would be misleading because they were either inapplicable or insufficient: the legal vacuum was proved. We have, as always, worked to ensure respect for fundamental freedoms and our constitutional rules. The seal keeper himself stated in the Senate that he had not "suddenly been taken from a liberticide madness" before supporting this bill, as Mrs Belloubet had done at first reading. From this point of view, you are above suspicion! So do we. In fact, the mechanism that we have built demonstrates our confidence in the judicial authority: only the judicial judge, not the administrative authority, will pronounce, after an adversarial debate, the security measures. I insist: the judicial judge; not the administrative authority. When the judge finds that those convicted of terrorism will still present, at the end of their sentence, objective signs of danger, the judge may therefore impose specific constraints on them: to establish their residence in a particular place; to apply for permission to change their job or to go abroad; do not contact certain persons or appear in certain places; to report periodically to the law enforcement agencies; wear an electronic bracelet, subject to consent. None of these measures, of course, is deprivation of liberty. Aware of surveying a peak line, we wanted the President of the National Assembly to approach the Council of State in order to answer two essential questions: are these security measures and can they apply to persons who have already been convicted? The Council of State replied in the affirmative. For the rest, it has marked our path of recommendations, designed to strengthen the need, adequacy and proportionality of the planned measures. We have thus reduced by half the maximum period during which safety measures can be imposed, and even more so for minors. We have given the court the opportunity to put an end to the measures if it no longer considers them necessary. The Senate has added other guarantees. It supplemented the list of obligations, by strengthening the reintegration component, which the National Assembly had begun to establish. He clarified the concept of danger in order to secure the system by taking up the qualification adopted in the legislation for MICAS, the individual administrative control and surveillance measures. The CMP has worked in the same spirit: we have planned an annual renewal of the measure, limited its scope to those sentenced to more than five years in prison, and imposed the collegiality of the court. Each time, the principle of legal certainty guided our choice. We have done everything possible to reconcile, on the one hand, the prevention of breaches of public order, necessary to safeguard rights and principles of constitutional value, and, on the other hand, the exercise of fundamental freedoms. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Acting for the safety of our citizens requires action on all fronts, that of means such as legal tools. Our Parliament has once again been able to live up to the challenge: the protection of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u4	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u5	I had the honour of telling your colleagues in the Senate that I was not suddenly caught from a blinding madness of liberticide. If this bill had been intended to keep convicts in detention after they had served their sentences, it is obvious that I would not have supported it. But it's all about anything else. The convicted person is released from detention after serving his or her sentence, but a judge of the judicial order may impose certain obligations on him or her, which he or she must comply with, otherwise he or she will again be incarcerated. The release of convicted prisoners, who are still potentially radicalized despite the work done, puts us collectively in the face of a problem that it would be dangerous to forget. We must do our utmost to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens, while maintaining the Republican Pact, which is based on our fundamental and inalienable freedoms. If I come back with you this afternoon, when we were already together the day before yesterday, it is because Parliament and the Government have taken the measure of this imperative, which must be welcomed. Indeed, the speed with which the Joint Joint Committee reached a solid agreement yesterday afternoon reflects the commitment of the legislator and the determination of the rapporteurs – in particular yours, Madam Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic – to bring this text to fruition as soon as possible. Thank you. You have, at the end of the work of each of the two chambers and on the basis of a very well-founded opinion of the Council of State, reached a solution that seems to me to be balanced. Article 1 of the proposed law provides for the introduction into the Code of Criminal Procedure of a mechanism that will allow the judicial judge to impose security measures on persons convicted of terrorist offences and who have served their prison sentence. You have endeavoured to frame this new guarantee scheme, which I believe is essential. Thus, the new system will only apply to persons who have already been convicted of terrorist acts. It shall be limited to persons sentenced to imprisonment of five years or more, or to three years or more in the event of recidivism. This addition reinforces the proportionality of the scheme. The initial duration of the measure shall be one year. The regular re-evaluation of security measures is, in my view, an important guarantee to balance the prevention of breaches of public order with the principle that personal freedom cannot be hindered by unnecessary rigour. I welcome the CMP's decision to do so. It should be recalled that only the judicial authority will be competent to pronounce, if necessary, these security measures. That is why this text is a step forward, because it is well known that without it, those convicted of terrorist offences would probably be monitored by our intelligence services, without any intervention by the judge. This bill, on the contrary, will entrust the judge with making a decision after an adversarial debate, which will allow the parties to submit their observations. And the convicted person, assisted by a lawyer, can appeal to the competent court. You have reworked the mechanism whereby the convicted person may request, at any time, the modification or release of these security measures: the judge of the enforcement of the penalties specialized in terrorist matters will be able to adapt the obligations at any time. In its normative work, the legislator has always sought to articulate the specificity of terrorist crime with our values. This is reflected in the consideration of this bill. Again, it will be essential to assess the mechanisms for preventing terrorist recidivism as a whole. The current complexity may affect the effectiveness of the State's action. It is necessary to flatten the existing devices in order to restore overall consistency and legibility to the current stacking. It is at the cost of such an evaluation that the State's action will find its full effectiveness, meaning and coherence, in a matter that requires no hesitation: the protection of the French. In conclusion, I will draw your attention to one point. Those who seem not to want to admit the balance that you have achieved in this text are those who will criticize tomorrow your appalling laxity when a convicted person repeats.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u6	Oh! Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u7	That's subtle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u8	Also remember that it is those who we will no longer hear when this law will be fully effective and will protect the French while preserving our model of society, the fundamental freedoms and the rule of law that underpin it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why I wholeheartedly support, as I did in the Senate on Thursday, the conclusions of your work, and suggest that you vote definitively for the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u10	In the general debate, Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u11	We have come to the end of a long way, because this text has been in our hands for several months. Although the Group of the European People's Party has unfortunately not been able to participate in the CMP, we welcome the conclusions of the CMP, as they strike a balance between the protection of the French in the fight against terrorism and respect for fundamental freedoms. Terrorism, in spite of a topicality which suggests that covid-19 occupies the minds of the French, remains a daily reality, a permanent risk to the safety of our fellow citizens and to public order, especially since, as we know, forty-three convicted persons with proven danger will be released by the end of the year. Should there be a new piece of legislation, in this case a bill, when, as you pointed out, Mr. keeper of seals, there is already a multitude of them, for which we have been partly responsible as legislators since 2017? We must, however, respond to the security imperative, especially since the Council of State has alerted us to a necessary clarification: we share with you the objective of evaluating all existing arrangements, so that the actors concerned can have greater readability and thus be more effective. We had to fill the legal vacuum regarding those released convicts. That is why I would like to greet you, Madam rapporteur. You have indeed had the courage to defend this text, despite the difficulties it faced, especially because of the various sensitivities existing in the National Assembly and the Senate; You have managed to find a balance, and we congratulate you on that. The legal vacuum stems from the dry exits, which, it should be recalled, originate from the prohibition, perhaps out of the will to do well, of the imposition of end-of-pair measures on the perpetrators of terrorist offences, so that these particularly dangerous persons cannot be monitored at the present time. This bill, which will deal with persons convicted of terrorism with sentences equal to or greater than five years in prison, aims precisely at remedying this deficiency. Upon their release, the dangerousness of these convicted persons will be assessed, not by judges gathered among themselves or by members of the intelligence services, but by a multidisciplinary commission entrusted with this task. The debate on the distinction between penalties and security measures could have an effect on the effectiveness of the text. As we know, a safety measure is intended to prevent a danger, while a penalty is intended to punish behaviour. The Constitutional Council is particularly vigilant on this point. The opinion of the Council of State is correct in that it considers that the proposed measures, ranging from a score three times a week to the wearing of an electronic bracelet, meet the definition of security measures and thus comply with constitutional requirements, which will allow for their retroactive application to convicted persons for acts committed prior to the enactment of the law. Some were concerned that the text might affect the judiciary. However, it retains jurisdiction and, it is important to stress, the bill respects the contradiction – I know how much you are attached to it, Mr. In addition, the principles of necessity and proportionality are respected in each line of the text. Finally, it responds to the need of actors in the fight against terrorism. They must be trusted in how they will apply the text, which is in no way contrary to an objective of assessing, in 2021, all the existing arrangements, of which this law will then be part. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, the Group of the European People's Party will, of course, strongly vote for the bill. The disagreement we had on a particular point was resolved after the passage of the text between the Senate and the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u12	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u13	At first reading, I said that the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports your intention to fight the terrorist threat. I say "threat", because everyone knows, alas, that despite the tremendous work done by our intelligence services and our police and judicial officers, our country can be struck at any moment. I know, as a member of Parliament of Seine-Saint-Denis and as an elected member of the city of Saint-Denis, how heavy the tribute paid by the nation and the victims of these heinous acts can be, because I witnessed the attack at the Stade de France. I firmly believe that national representation must be at the rendezvous of this struggle by expressing unwavering determination. However, this battle, however important it may be, cannot be waged, even to our defending body, in disregard of the great republican principles, as has been the case for too many years. In both terrorism and crime, there is a great temptation to engage in an endless race towards zero risk. In this area, the zero risk is obviously only a myth, a temptation to which all successive majorities have succumbed, by constantly strengthening the legislative arsenal. This bill does not escape this legislative overbidding, by introducing, in a way, a sentence after the sentence. There is no longer a question of preventing the risk of terrorism and of imagining penalties compatible with our vision of republican justice; It is only a question of ensuring an illusory peace of mind, by means of drastic security measures. In addition to being a chimera, your device shows better than anyone else – it is probably the most worrying – how the boundary between the logic of preventing attacks and the logic of justice has eroded in the mind of the legislator. The Council of State, in its opinion on the text, rightly warns you against the confusion between the penalty and the security measure, because of "the stacking over the years of devices [...] which have combined repressive measures, or which are part of the enforcement of sentences, and preventive measures". These successive amendments are not without consequences. They have deeply disrupted and disturbed the principles inherited from the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights, article 8 of which states that no one may be re-prosecuted or punished for the same acts. In 2008, Robert Badinter, then a senator, admirably summarized this evolution of security measures by worrying: "The dangerous man will replace the guilty man before our justice. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u14	Very nice quote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u15	We share this view and believe that the answers to the fight against terrorism are to be found elsewhere. First, we call for additional means to be given without delay to the preventive function of counter-terrorism justice, in response to the proliferation of threats. It is above all at this level that the key to success in this fight stands. We also believe that the answer is to look at the inadequacy of the state of our prisons and the willingness of the public authorities to put in place effective deradicalization policies. Finally, we believe that, in order to be effective, the fight against terrorism must be carried out within the major legal services of the State and must be resolutely directed towards prevention, intelligence and the enforcement of penalties commensurate with the threat. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LT and FI groups]] That is why, despite our common will to protect our nation from this unsustainable violence, we will vote against the bill, which, we are convinced, will not allow our country to respond to the terrorist threat and, moreover, in a certain way, will give way to those who, through their terrorist actions, want to give up the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u17	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u18	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u19	In the next three years, 150 to 200 people convicted of terrorist acts – mainly aborted attempts to leave or return theatres of operations in Iraq and Syria – will be released from French prisons. These persons, followed in prison by the intelligence services, still have very worrying profiles. The paradox is that, since 2016, these people convicted of terrorism have been excluded from all the mechanisms to accompany them out of prison. They will be what is called in the judicial jargon, you recalled, Mr. keeper of the seals, "dry trips": overnight, they will be outside without accompaniment and without obligation, even though they must be the subject of specific accompanying and monitoring measures as a matter of priority. The purpose of our bill is to put an end to this paradox by filling the so-called "hole in the racket" of the law, through the introduction of measures to accompany and monitor persons convicted of terrorism after their release from prison. At the moment, you have recalled, Mr. keeper of seals, the only measures that can be taken are by the Minister of the Interior under the SILT law – these are MICAS. The scheme is limited, first of all because it provides not for accompanying arrangements, but only for monitoring, then and above all because it is limited in time – one year in principle, six months in reality. Thanks to our text, it will now be up to the magistrates to take a battery of measures, from the simple declaration of address to the pointage in a police station and to the wearing of the electronic bracelet, all in a collegial way – you also recalled – after a judicial debate, and with respect for the adversarial. The issue is well known, as you have pointed out, Madam rapporteur, Mr Custody of the Seals: with regard to public freedoms, we are on a peak line, because we are adding restrictive measures of freedom to a person who has already been convicted and who has already served his sentence, already "paid his debt to society", as we say in the judicial jargon. While constitutional jurisprudence recognizes the possibility of taking security measures against a person of a certain degree of gravity, the Constitutional Council examines the need for such measures and, in some cases, the appropriateness of such measures. If these security measures are too strict, too restrictive, and are treated by the Constitutional Council not as security measures but as a genuine new criminal penalty, then our system will run the risk of being declared unconstitutional. This risk, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, was the thread of our work and our debates, before the Council of State, in committee, in first reading and then in the Joint Joint Committee, last Wednesday. The search for balance was our constant concern, with a view to ensuring the constitutionality of the system, while guaranteeing its effectiveness, because we do not want to make a law that will be censored. Nor is it a matter of making a law that is useless, that would not be enforced. Thus, in the Joint Joint Committee, at the suggestion of the Senate, we have introduced a new guarantee, limiting the scheme to those convicted of terrorist acts to sentences equal to or greater than five years, knowing that the 150 prisoners convicted of these acts who are to be released in the next three years and whose behaviour is most worrying will not be affected by this limitation, we have received the guarantee. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] Let us not deceive ourselves: for some, we will never do enough and it is of no use; For others, we are doing too much, and it is of no use either. However, our bill is a real step forward in providing an operational and balanced response to the threat. We intend to support her forcefully, collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u20	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u21	The fight against terrorism is one of the major security challenges facing our society. The terrorist threat is evolving: once under the control of an identified organization, with known actors and methods, it has become endogenous, capable of being carried out by anyone and in any operating mode. The organization of the Islamic State invited its followers, all over the world, to kill the unbelievers "in any way, with a stone, with a knife, with a car". Because of the Internet and the development of Islamist radicalisation, any radicalised person was likely to switch to terrorism. Thus, terrorist acts committed with the means at the disposal of the perpetrators multiplied: on 26 July 2016 in Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray; 12 May 2018 near the Palais Garnier; 3 October 2019 at the police prefecture of Paris; April 4th at Romans-sur-Isère. In all these cases, it was enough to have a knife for the irreparable to be committed and for terrorism to cause victims. As my terrorist threat evolves, our legislation must also evolve, in order to try to prevent further attacks. The perpetrators and accomplices of terrorist offences are arrested, tried and imprisoned for their acts: nearly 530 people are detained in our prisons for committing terrorist offences in connection with the Islamist movement. Of these, 153 must be released in the next three years: 42 will be released in 2020, 64 in 2021 and 47 in 2022. Of the 153 persons released in the near future, 11 were convicted of terrorist crimes. [[Smile]] Mr Keeper of the Seals, at your hearing before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure last Monday, you criticized us for wanting to imprison everyone for life. I assure you, in the National Assembly, exaggeration is not as customary as it is for a lawyer in a courtroom!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u22	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u23	The parliamentary intelligence delegation has worked on measures to prevent the recidivism of persons convicted of terrorism. At the time of its consideration in committee, we told you that if your bill went in the right direction, the Republicans would vote in favour, Madam Seals. Surprisingly, instead of strengthening the mechanism, the law commission emptied it of its substance by halving the maximum duration of security measures and removing the provision on electronic bracelet surveillance. Fortunately, the remarks made on this subject up to the majority group have been heard, and the examination in session has made it possible to correct some errors, which I thank you for. Let us recall one important fact: no law, no measure will completely prevent further attacks, because zero risk does not exist. However, concrete, realistic and targeted measures can be taken to reduce this risk. In particular, you could have extended the scope of the bill to radicalized ordinary detainees. The Council of State stressed this: "The radicalisation in prisons [...] is a documented fact. Prison is an incubator of radicalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u25	The extension of security measures to radicalized detainees who had not been convicted of terrorist offences would have made the text more effective. We also regret that security detention has not been retained, despite the fact that it was sufficient to extend the Act of 25 February 2008, as approved by the Constitutional Council, which applies to the most dangerous sex offenders and particularly violent criminals. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] François Molins said: "There is a major risk that people who will not be repented will be released from prison at the end of their sentence, even more likely to be hardened because of their stay in prison. This risk is very real, and I illustrate it: Amedy Coulibaly had been sentenced to five years in prison for trying to escape a terrorist; On his release, he became a terrorist himself by committing the attacks on Montrouge and the Hypercacher in January 2015. After his passage to the Senate, the bill was amended and the Joint Joint Committee reached an agreement. The text is not perfect, but everything that makes it possible to strengthen our country in the face of the terrorist threat is in the right direction. The CMP has thus made it possible to better define the legal scope of security measures, while leaving the text with a sufficiently broad framework to be effective. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I and Agir groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, after reminding the Government of the security work requirements, the Republicans group takes its responsibilities by voting in favour of the bill before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u27	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u28	Here we are at the end of the discussion of the bill, tabled at the initiative of the Chair of the Law Committee, which I would like to welcome here for her work on the text and more generally at the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u29	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u30	[[Smile]] When things are well done, you have to say it! Indeed, our legislative arsenal was incomplete in view of the terrorist threat that still weighs on our country, and through this text we are trying to remedy it. SILT had given us new legal means to protect our fellow citizens, but the threat is still there – it is certainly not the laws that will stop the terrorists, but they provide tools to fight them. It is a risk that we did not necessarily take into account at the time: the release from prison of persons convicted of terrorist acts or of association of criminals in association with a terrorist enterprise – i.e., to be precise, participation in a formed group or in an agreement established for the preparation of an act of terrorism. There are, of course, individual administrative control measures, but no ad hoc security regime, applicable to the perpetrators of terrorist offences upon their release from detention. The opinion of the Council of State allowed us to refine the text at first reading, clarifying it and providing the necessary guarantees. However, I want to reiterate the importance which the MODEM Group attaches to the fight against terrorism and the protection of our citizens, and I recall our duty as legislator, which is to respect the balances of our Constitution. However, as we said at first reading, we wanted to remove from the list of security measures applicable to mobile electronic surveillance, because of its particularly restrictive nature for freedoms, which is more like a new penalty rather than a preventive measure – this is a delicate point. The CMP has retained the possibility of providing for electronic supervision when a periodic presentation to the police or gendarmerie units has been ordered. In return, when an electronic placement is ordered and consented by the person concerned, at the same time as a periodic presentation measure, the Joint Joint Committee provided that the periodic presentation frequency limit should be lowered to once a week, as foreseen by the National Assembly, against three times a week in the absence of electronic monitoring. [[Laughs and comments. – The rapporteur applauds laughing]] That is why the MODEM Group will be shared: I will abstain, like others, while some will vote for the text and others, perhaps, will vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u31	It's very MODEM!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u32	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u33	The balance of the text emerges from the work of both chambers and the CMP, I say it in my turn. The text is based on a twofold observation: the time of incarceration does not allow enough to combat recidivism or repetition; The many legislative measures that we have constantly adopted do not address our concern to ensure that the convicted person, when released from prison, is able to reintegrate into society. The fight against recidivism must remain the priority orientation given to the sentence; the text, which aims to give arms at the end of it, must not mean abandoning this ambition. The safety measure must be taken only after a long and powerful path of reintegration has failed. But for this to happen, we still need to have human and budgetary resources, and to ensure prison regulation – you are working on it, Mr. As for the legal vacuum that this legislation would justify, the 2016 law strengthening the fight against organised crime, terrorism and their financing, and improving the effectiveness and guarantees of criminal procedure, provides for the social and judicial follow-up during the conviction. That's the way to go. The measure is imposed at the time of the facts, on the basis of the facts, and is intended to complete the sentence. It responds to the need for necessary accompaniment when leaving prison, up to a restriction of liberty. But it cannot apply to the approximately 150 prisoners we have mentioned, who were convicted before the enactment of this law. Article 2 corresponds to the amendment, which we tabled at first reading in a public sitting, which strengthens the place of socio-judicial follow-up. The judge will have an obligation to justify his refusal to issue the supplementary sentence of socio-judicial follow-up. From now on, perpetrators of proven serious terrorist crimes and crimes will be subject to socio-judicial follow-up measures, the content of which can be adapted at the end of the sentence. Since 2016, it has been said that persons convicted of terrorist acts other than offences in connection with the provocation of terrorism or its apology do not receive any credit for reducing their sentences. This is a mistake that we have made under pressure. To deprive those convicted of a terrorist act of reduction of sentence does not, in my view, make it possible to organise the end of the sentence as best as possible and to avoid a dry exit. We must return to this point and thus improve the balance of the system with regard to constitutional requirements. The 2017 SILT Act contains individual administrative control and surveillance measures, the provisional nature of which had been specified, precisely because of their possible violation of individual freedoms. These are administrative measures, without reintegration assistance, which we all question because they are not handed down by the judicial judge. This text therefore attempts to respond to the anxiety surrounding the release of an individual, who, at the end of his sentence, would exhibit disturbing behaviour suggesting a serious risk of recidivism of terrorist acts. This has been said and said again, strongly restrictive surveillance measures of freedom can therefore be decided, but this time, handed down by a judge, after adversarial debate and in the presence of the lawyer. I will make three concluding remarks. First of all, a particular danger can justify surveillance, as you said, Mr. Keeper of Seals. In fact, that is the case in our law. In this case, it is transparent supervision, decided in the presence of the lawyer and subject to appeal. It cannot therefore be equated with a measure of security detention, which replaces as Robert Badinter so rightly said and as my colleague Little, "the guilty man" reminded us by "the dangerous man" before our justice. Without dogmatism, and in view of our work on this subject under the 2016 law, these security measures appear to us as other possible solutions, but constrained by the temporality of the law, to the socio-judicial follow-up. Secondly, this text is a confession of the weakness of our legislative work, its foresight and, alas, our tendency to respond urgently to a given situation, but which, predictable, could have been discussed in the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law of 2019. [[The rapporteur applauds]] Moreover, let us say without demagogy and clearly that no text will be able to fully protect us from the risk that the bill is trying to reduce, even if we obviously have to work to limit it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u34	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u35	It is pointless to go back on the merits of this bill, relegated to the background of the health crisis: the Islamist attacks on Romans-sur-Isère and Colombes, in full confinement, reminded us that the terrorist threat remains very real, alas. In this area, the risk of recidivism is particularly high. As early as February, I reminded the Government in one question that there is an urgent need, as 90 per cent of the detainees for terrorism or radicalization will be released by 2025. At the end of the parliamentary shuttle, the text has, it is true, gained in precision. However, on the substance, there is little progress and the philosophy of the scheme raises serious questions. According to Title XV, Section 4 of Book IV of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the primary objective is reintegration, with the prevention of recidivism only arriving in a second stage. If, of course, former detainees must be reintegrated, the priority must be the prevention of acts of terrorism, because we are faced with condemned Islamists, fanatics who hate France and have sworn its loss. The French no longer want angelism: the country needs a combat republic, not an umpteenth system of insertion for delinquents! Second, the text limits the scope of application to terrorist acts punishable by five years' imprisonment or more. I regret that the CMP followed the Senate because, in the first draft of the text, a margin of appreciation was left to the judge to assess the danger of the individual. At first reading, I had defended, along with others, an amendment to include in the operative part persons convicted of apologies for terrorism or incitement to acts of terrorism, since most terrorists began there: between radicalization and the move to act, there is a continuum. Only the precautionary principle must guide us: in the current context, where the prison has, alas, become the school of jihad, it demands that all radical Islamists, condemned for terrorist offences, be given security measures. And the doubt – for it is true that there is often a doubt – should benefit only our fellow citizens, not the jihadists, even if they repent sometimes, it is true. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, in another life, you were the lawyer of Mohammed Merah's brother. Of this trial, you stated that he was the most difficult one you've ever known. Allow me to mention in my turn one of the most difficult moments of my life: the night flight to Israel carrying to their last remains the remains of the victims of the attack of the Ozar Hatorah school in Toulouse. I was sitting next to Eva Sandler, who had just lost her husband, Jonathan, and her two sons, Arieh and Gabriel, murdered in the name of radical Islam because they were Jews. I will never forget these torn families and their dignity in pain. In the middle of the night, Eva Sandler exploded in sobbing. She held in her arms the little piece of life that she had left, her daughter, Liora. I tried to comfort her; Alain Juppé, also very moved, rose and approached in turn. Then came Yaacov Monsonego and his wife, Yaffa, who had just lost their 7-year-old daughter Myriam, who had been killed at close range in the courtyard of her school. They now live, to use their words, "on the margins of life." Since then, the Sandler and Monsonego families have been part of my life. We remained very close, as I am to William Attal, Sarah Halimi's brother, who contacted me the day after the drama to spread, or to Daniel and Allan, the sons of Mireille Knoll, who confided in me a few hours after their mother's anti-Semitic murder. I am thinking only of them, the 260 victims of jihadism and the thousands of wounded for life; I am thinking in particular of Father Hamel, whose four years of barbaric murder were commemorated yesterday: this man of love and faith was slaughtered in his church, in the name of Islamism, because he was a Christian. If I'm talking about all this, it's that when we deal with the security measures applicable to jihadists released from prison, it's the victims, the victims only, that we have to think about, not the executioners. However, hundreds of jihadists who had served their sentences would be released from prison: that was the law. Like you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I made visits to prison and exchanged with prison staff, and especially with jihadists; They are time bombs, they practice taqiya and concealment. That is why we must redouble our vigilance. The bill is good but it does not go far enough. At first reading, with some colleagues, we were able to restore by amendment the possibility of introducing an electronic tracing, which had been removed in committee – even though, strangely, this measure requires the consent of the terrorist to be constitutional. I had made other proposals, unfortunately rejected. First leads to the establishment of administrative detention centres for terrorists who pose a particularly serious threat to national security. In Israel, a country I know well, this arrangement has allowed, in twenty years, to divide by fifteen the number of victims and to avoid thousands of attacks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u36	We have to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u37	Second, the deprivation of nationality of French nationals guilty of terrorist offences. Those who took up arms against the French and betrayed France have no place in the national community. The IDU and independent group will take responsibility and vote in favour of the bill, but without conviction, because its scope is too restrictive and the measures too timid. In short, this is another anti-terrorism law – the tenth since 2012! – without a real response to the jihadist challenge. Even if things are complicated, I would not want an eleventh law to be passed after an umpteenth attack. There is an urgent need, and the bill sets out a useful framework for implementing security measures: if it saves even one life, it will be justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u38	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u39	When we examined the bill, the Freedom and Territory Group had been extremely reserved, for several reasons. Of course, we support the introduction of measures to prevent the recurrence of terrorist acts, and the fight against this scourge requires the commitment of all, but the joint struggle does not mean that fundamental freedoms are trampled together. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you said that your ministry would be that of freedoms and human rights; We welcome this because the defence of freedoms is part of our group's DNA. That is why we were opposed to the bill to prevent violence during demonstrations and to punish their perpetrators, known as "anti-casseurs", the bill to combat hateful content on the Internet, and all those who are tilting the balance of justice, supposedly on the side of more security but, in reality, towards fewer freedoms. The Libertés et territoires group is fiercely committed to the right balance between security and freedom. However, we feel that some of the provisions of the bill violate the fundamental rights of convicted persons who have served their sentences, thus being tantamount to punitive rather than preventive measures. Admittedly, preventing the recidivism of the perpetrators of terrorist acts is not a simple challenge to be met, but we must not fall into easy solutions: let us not introduce a criminal policy that would build on the fears of our fellow citizens, in order to sacrifice freedoms on the altar of greater security; Let us not fall into the emotional, ineffective and undermining democracy from within. The proposals that we must incorporate into our legislative arsenal to combat terrorist recidivism must be risk-sensitive and respect the principles of our rule of law. This means that we must first know where we are going, or that it will lead us nowhere, would have said Henry Kissinger! But how do we know where we are going when no global study has been conducted on the risk of the French parties recidivism to join the Islamic State group, in Iraq and Syria, during the Caliphate period, and which are required in the debates now? Where is the impact assessment? There aren't any! In Belgium, a recent study, with totally counter-intuitive results, revealed that less than 3 per cent of the jihadists convicted once in the country had again committed terrorist acts. A moment ago, I was talking to you about the punitive nature of certain provisions of the text. This is the case with placement under electronic supervision, which in no way resembles a security measure. Of course, it is conditional on the consent of the person, but this condition seems to us to be distorted from the outset. You are actually proposing to introduce an additional penalty, for an act that has not been committed, all wrapped in a dose of good conscience: it is the inmate who chooses to put himself under the nuts! Furthermore, as my colleague Jean-Félix Acquaviva has indicated to you, we believe that the bill poses a serious risk: that of seeing security measures for Islamist terrorists apply to other audiences, such as political activists, environmentalists, alterglobalists, animalists, Corsicans, Basques and others; Such security measures at the end of the sentence would prove to be totally disproportionate to the militant action for which they were convicted, too repressive – as is currently the case for many of these activists, the registration of the perpetrators of terrorist offences, a fear about which we have not been heard. While we are pleased to see that our amendment to the effect that the provisions of the text are not applicable to prisoners released before the adoption of the bill, which had been adopted in public session, has been retained by the Joint Joint Committee, we are obviously not satisfied with the whole text. This, as you will have understood, does not seem to us to be the right response to the need to combat the risk of recidivism of terrorist acts; It undermines individual freedoms disproportionately, but does not provide us with greater security. You have suggested, Mr Keeper of the Seals, that those who do not vote in favour of the text would bear heavy responsibility for new terrorist acts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u41	In that case, lock the terrorists for life or cut their heads off, and you'll solve the problem! This new text is liberticide and useless.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u42	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u43	It seems to respond to a pseudo-aspire of public opinion to a society of order. In fact, it only contributes to fuelling the safe auction, to the detriment of a soothing society,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u44	It's like everything's okay! Like there's no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u45	... when in reality he won't fix anything. That is why, as at first reading, our group will oppose the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u46	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u47	Beware of trapped debates, in which every word is extremely sensitive! Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you who are a professional of the verb, you set the tone in your conclusion: anyone who criticizes the bill will no doubt be among those who, tomorrow, will take the opportunity to accuse others of laxism and say that we have not done enough. Yet I know you, we know you. Over the course of eight years, more than ten anti-terrorist laws have been passed, which each time intended to settle the issue definitively and put an end to the so-called laxity behind the tragedies that we have experienced. The debate, as I said, is trapped. Unsubstantiated France will of course always be on the side of the measures that effectively combat terrorist crimes, the fanaticism that kills and this part of our population, which, let us say clearly, gives way to a radical Islamism that, as we know, sometimes kills. Many of our fellow citizens have fallen, including friends: political friends, short-term friends. From this point of view, we, like all, I believe, have the will to act, but to act effectively and without, I repeat, yielding to the collective temptation of a new law to every mandate, team or year, not for the sake of efficiency in the fight against terrorism, but to give public assurances by implying that firm action is being taken, unlike its predecessors, that lessons have been learned from the past and that we will not be responsible for future crimes that may take place. We know very well that such a policy does not lead to anything; Indeed, it is not even respectful or worthy of the concerns and anxieties of the French. I will say things simply – they have already been said by several speakers before me. I know Eric Diard – I don't know if he's still here – for the accuracy of his remarks; It's a trait that characterizes him. It was not wrong to say that prisons had become incubators and that persons incarcerated for terrorist or other crimes had become hardened. That's the whole debate! Can we not finally deal with the problem of the deterioration of conditions of detention, which leads to even more dangerous persons who have been convicted of crimes? That's where the problem lies!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u48	That is indeed the main one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u49	What are we doing about it? Can we consider that the work done in prisons on conditions of detention, in particular since 2017, makes penalties effective? We know we don't. However, that is what we owe to the French. It's extremely difficult, I agree. We are probably facing a heavy task, and we may not be satisfied for a long time with the work done. However, we know that at present conditions in prison, including overcrowding, do not help to solve the problem. [[The keeper of the seals makes signs of denial]] So let's stop choosing ease with a bill that creates a "post-penalty penalty," as you said yourself, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, when you are not yet performing your current duties. The National Council of Bar Associations also rightly states that it refers to "a new sentence ordered by the court for the enforcement of sentences and after the sentence imposed by the court of judgment has been served". The Council, which organises the fine profession of lawyer, which is indispensable for a democracy, "invites parliamentarians to uphold the fundamental principles of law, including the principles of legality, non-retroactivity and non-cumulative prosecution and punishment". It is not that I want to argue with Mr. Keeper of the Seals, but it happens that he occupies a particular position. Wearing a bracelet is a pain!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u50	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u51	[[The keeper of the seals makes new signs of denial]] It's a pain after the pain! So let's go back to the essentials. What should we do? Give real means to fight terrorism? Yes, especially for a real follow-up of prisoners, including psychologically, after their release. We've got to dry up fanaticism. However, it does not seem to me that measures that exacerbate inequalities solve this problem. However, that is the point we must take action on. On the other hand, participation in safe signage and questioning fundamental principles of law do not seem to us to be an appropriate response to what our fellow citizens are demanding of us. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] That is why the La France Insoumise Group, which will always stand on the side of an effective fight against terrorism, is not included in this bill and will not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u52	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u53	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u54	The next item is the discussion of the draft organic law extending the term of office of the members of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (No. 3247, 3250).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u55	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u56	[[Rites and exclamations]] How can I say it at once? You will concede to me that this text is less controversial than the previous one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u57	But...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u58	You'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u59	I now have the honour to defend before your House the organic bill to extend the term of office of the members of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. This text marks the beginning of the concrete translation of the desire of the President of the Republic to respond to an aspiration that came to light between 2017 and 2019, but which has actually been covering much longer. This aspiration is that of a change in political life aimed at giving more opportunities for expression and action to people who are usually distant from it. But this aspiration, this ardently desired change, is also and above all that of a renewal of our institutions and of their functioning. Indeed, our fellow citizens have called for a change in political practices, in particular in our representative democracy. That is why, in order to meet this legitimate expectation, the President of the Republic has proposed to the French to modernise our democracy by making our institutions more representative, more accountable and more effective. The draft reform of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, which will be presented to you in the autumn, will be a concrete translation. His discussion will, I hope, be a great moment of democratic debate, allowing us to reflect together on the institutions we want today for tomorrow's France. It may be a more controversial text than the one we are discussing now. As you know, since its inception in 1925, the EESC has been responsible for representing the country's economic and social forces. Its composition and functions have evolved steadily, adapting to the needs of civil society. This is why the future draft organic law on the reform of the EESC will propose that you discuss several important points, which will enable it, among other things, to organise civic conventions, to reinforce the importance of its opinions in the legislative process and to see its composition changed to reflect its original vocation of representing civil society. However, it is not this text that I am presenting to you this afternoon. It is a question of allowing us, if necessary, this discussion of our institutions and their functioning in a long time, conducive to consensus and co-construction. That is why it is essential to extend the current mandate of EESC members. Indeed, it appears that this organic reform cannot be definitively adopted by Parliament and promulgated by the President of the Republic, after a decision by the Constitutional Council, before the current term of office of the members of the Council ends. This mandate, set at five years by article 9 of the Ordinance of 29 December 1958 on the Organic Law on the Economic and Social Council, began on 15 November 2015 and is due to end in November 2020. You will therefore have understood that in this text there cannot be tomorrow's text. I would like to announce this to you here: I will come back to you in September to discuss this long-awaited reform together. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Under these circumstances, in order to temporarily preserve the functioning of the EESC and avoid having to appoint new members in the current configuration for only a few months, this draft organic law aims to extend the term of office of Council members for the duration strictly necessary for the adoption of the organic law amending the composition of the Council and the renewal operations following its publication. However, a deadline is set for the extension of the mandate not to exceed 1 June 2021. I therefore propose that you adopt the organic bill extending the term of office of the current members of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u60	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u61	We are gathered to examine a text that we have adopted in committee, because we support your will, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, to defend a reform of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council in order to give it its full meaning: to represent civil society in its various components. The President of the Republic, since his speech in 2017 before the Congress, stressed that this institution is one of those that "have frozen in the situations acquired, when the true meaning of their missions would have been to embody the living movement of French society". However, we all see this in our constituencies, in our exchanges with representatives of civil society or in contact with our fellow citizens: there are many who want genuine citizen participation to contribute to collective decision-making. This participation does not compete with other modes of engagement in public action, but rather complements them, and allows new solutions, good practices and strong expectations to be raised – provided that tools exist for this purpose. We have heard this desire for the effective participation of civil society and citizens in public decision-making. The President of the Republic has launched two particularly innovative initiatives in this area: the major national debate in 2018 and the Citizen Climate Convention in 2019. We have been many on all these benches to follow with interest their progress and the results obtained. Whatever their political position or their own interests, citizens have thus been able to invest in formalising recommendations. We are then elected by universal suffrage and legislators, to follow them up or to explain why the solutions chosen differ. We will soon have to consider a text reflecting the recommendations of the Citizens' Convention, to discuss its terms and probably to propose additional provisions. This is a complementary work which strengthens the representativeness of our institutions. [[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] In this context, the Government and the majority wanted to further formalise the existing tools to encourage citizen participation, in particular by entrusting a new mission to the EESC in the area of citizen consultation. This reform, in line with the original function of the EESC, we defended it for the first time in the context of the draft revision of the Constitution. As this could not be achieved, the EESC's transformation remained pending. You now propose, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, to resume our work on the future of this third chamber, through two organic texts. The first concerns the reform itself. Presented to the National Assembly, it should be considered at the beginning of the year. Its main objectives are to review the composition of the EESC by reducing the number of its members and to entrust it with the organisation of citizen consultations, where appropriate by drawing lots. On the other hand, the examination of petitions will be facilitated – as things stand, this method of referral does not work as well as it should. Finally, its working methods will be revised in the direction of greater efficiency: the procedure for the simplified adoption of opinions will be strengthened, while the EESC's committees will be able to make ad hoc use of experts or random citizens in order to enrich their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u62	The second is the organic bill that we are now beginning to consider. Its purpose is to extend the term of office of EESC members, which will come to an end in November this year. The aim is not to renew the members of the Council until the reform comes into force, which could change its composition. The Senate, on whose side this text was first tabled, voted in favour of this extension, subject to some editorial changes, so that we can, in a second step, work in good conditions on the substance of the reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u63	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Without presage of the position of senators and the various groups of the Assembly on certain provisions of this comprehensive reform project that we will be considering at the beginning of the year, it seems to me that this organic text is a necessary first step that can bring us all together. I will therefore propose to you again to adopt it without amendment, in the version of the commission, which is also that of the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u64	In the general debate, Mr. Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u65	You are right, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, this text will probably not be the most debated in the legislature... It is of undeniable importance, however, since it is a matter of ensuring the proper functioning of the EESC pending its necessary reform, the review of which will begin at the beginning of the year. It gives us at least the opportunity to say a few words about the future reform and the ambitions that we must have for this chamber, ignored by the French and often misunderstood, since its usefulness is sometimes called into question. However, it is a chamber which, I think, plays an essential role in the institutions of our country, as a tool for moving a number of issues forward in the public debate. With Yaël Braun-Pivet, during the examination of the draft constitutional revision, we proposed that the EESC be transformed into a "Forum of the Republic", a promising and explicit formula concerning the link between participatory democracy and representative democracy. Indeed, wanting to oppose these two notions is a serious mistake, the whole stake of our institutions, of a modern democracy, which I will call "continuous", being on the contrary to articulate these two aspects. How can this be achieved? Probably by improving the functioning of the EESC and giving it new extensions, with the aim of articulating three spaces. The first is the civil space, that of the social bond, of the economy, of business life, of social dialogue, etc. The second is the public space, where the general will is formed, sometimes a place of tension between citizens or between the different bodies of society. The third, above all, is the space where the debates of ideas necessary for a society must be decided, the space for political decision-making and the administration of our society. The challenge of a modern democracy, of a continuous democracy, is to be able to articulate these spaces, and the EESC must be the place for this articulation. [[Applause on a few benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] One of the challenges of our democracy is to reconcile the desire of citizens to participate directly in political decision-making and the importance of representative democracy as an expression of the will of the electoral body at a given time. That both are not contradictory is what we must succeed with the reform of the EESC. This text offers us the opportunity to do so in some time, in September. We have seen that the EESC has been the supporter of the Citizens' Convention with undeniable success. We need to improve the way the EESC works and give it the confidence to continue this work necessary for a calm public debate. The MODEM Group will therefore vote in favour of this consensual text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u66	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u67	The present text extends the term of office of the members of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council for a future substantive text. As a matter of principle, I am very reserved for the extension of any mandate. Moreover, to my knowledge, we had not allowed ourselves this kind of freedom during the previous quinquennium. It must be noted that this reflects a form of disorganization in the examination of the texts, even taking into account the difficulties caused by the crisis of the covid-19. Whatever the tragedies that have shaken our country, we have never been reduced to doubling our reforms of such extensions. Having said that, it is true that, because of its composition, the way in which it operates, the pace of reforms, the EESC has been struggling to play its full role for a long time. He has difficulty finding his place in the institutions of the Republic and ensuring the visibility of his work, and he has never shown his effectiveness: the record is severe. The organic bill will allow for a useful debate. As the EESC's mission is to be, in the words of the President of the Republic, "a link between civil society and political bodies", it is undoubtedly essential, if it is to be strengthened as such, to reform its working methods to enable it to ensure this link, in particular through digital democracy and citizen consultation, which it facilitates, without excluding the work on the ground. But civil society also represents us, the Members of Parliament. I, for my part, do not need a trait of union to get in touch with it and to have the feeling that I represent it, in particular through the public legislative workshops that we organise in our territories or the citizen juries that are there to help us in our legislative reflection. The citizen does not belong to any institution, or rather to each of them, at all levels and regardless of his or her actions. Civil society is not to be stored in a closet; We call for the possibility of holding citizen consultations here. It is also for Parliament to organise such consultations, whether or not with the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. I recall that the constitutional review allowed us to move forward on this point. We called for the citizen consultation organized by the National Assembly to be more effective and readable. We considered that the EESC, rather than being the representative of civil society and the organiser of citizen consultations – for which it can have the hand, but without the exclusive – should become the assembly of the future. We believe that the most difficult thing for the legislator is to have a long-term vision. The EESC would be very useful by showing us a path and making sure that the provisions that we are adopting are part of the transition that we have repeatedly wanted to organise in previous texts. Our idea is therefore to make it an assembly of the future, which corresponds to this world, according to which many speak, which questions the transition. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] With this in mind, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of prorogation because voting against would make no sense. The debate on the Economic, Social and Environmental Council will, however, be nourished. The term "environmental" refers to the need to question the future. Which institution could do better than the EESC?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u68	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u69	From the National Economic Council to today's Economic, Social and Environmental Council, the history of the institution is long. However, there have been few reforms, but those that have taken place have been of a certain magnitude. The Government proposes to write a new one in order to fulfil three main objectives: to better inform the public authorities about the economic, social and environmental issues of their decisions, which is the basis of its original mission; follow up on petitions addressed to it; provide a kind of forum for public consultations, including reporting on local initiatives and recommendations that may result from them. The debate announced in the autumn will raise the question of the balance between representative democracy and the more direct forms of consultation of our citizens. As Mr Balanant said, opposing one another would be a mistake. Representation, which is the foundation of our democracy, should not be diminished, since universal suffrage remains the best vehicle for our fellow citizens' participation in collective deliberation, but the yellow vest crisis and the great national debate have highlighted the desire of our fellow citizens to participate in a renewed way in the construction of collective deliberation. If this reform of the EESC makes it possible to refresh our institutions and re-establish the link between citizens who are clearly aware that they are moving a little further away from the political debate every day, especially because of the harm that social networks do, it will be all the more useful. We will pay close attention to this, but, pending this reform, which was announced for the parliamentary re-entry, it is a matter of extending the mandate of the members of the Council, otherwise it would expire before the adoption of the reform. It is a matter of managing a possible transitional period. This organic bill, whose scope is strictly limited in time, is not likely to stifle any constitutional difficulties. In these circumstances, the IDU and independent group can only approve this purely practical change.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u70	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u71	My speech will be brief. Should the term of office of the members of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council be extended? Of course. How long? Time for reform. Members of the Liberties and Territories Group are therefore in favour of this text. This is an opportunity to tell you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, how committed we are to an important strengthening of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. We must not fail in this reform, and we must not fail in strengthening the role of Parliament, because everything is connected! We are the only Western democracy where the powers are so concentrated: everything is in the hands of the President of the Republic and his small team. Of course, this is how the Fifth Republic was conceived, but recognize that while our fellow citizens have never been so trained and informed – a great revolution in our democratic history – since the creation of the Republic, they have never been so wary of policy decisions. It is our duty to strengthen a sick democracy. If we had not been a large country with law enforcement forces, the yellow vest crisis would have led to an orange revolution: that is the reality, because our country is democraticly fragile. Therefore, we need to completely change the way in which we work with our fellow citizens and generalise it, and establish it everywhere. Citizens' conferences already exist, but the challenge is not to make 150 of our citizens smarter; It consists of creating collective intelligence by organizing round-trips between the decisions of the legislator, the legislative will of the Government and public opinion. Let us draw inspiration from many countries in Northern Europe, but also from the European Parliament, which has an independent body responsible for impact assessments, which has the freedom to retaliate with the ideas of the Commission or the Council of Ministers: "Your proposal is not subject to consultation, we do not understand the impact assessment, return to square one". This should be the role of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council tomorrow: to ensure that all the necessary debates are organized, but also that they are synthesized and incorporated into a legislative framework. Otherwise, the big debates are only big bluffs. In fact, the great national debate was a big bluff. Thousands of public meetings have been held – I have moderated some of them – and this has been entrusted to a survey body! There's something to laugh about! What happened to public opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u72	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u73	Public opinion first believed in it and wanted to make it a useful exercise, but nothing came out of it, because this debate, although useful, was not accompanied by true methods. The reorganization of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council must remedy this: it must strengthen the place of our fellow citizens, not to mention organised civil society, those intermediary bodies that we will seek to rescue when we need them, after having wanted to do without them. It is also important to ensure that the dialogue between the general public and the intermediate bodies goes well, it is not so complicated; It was, in a way, the Grenelle method of the environment. Finally, Parliament must be considerably strengthened, particularly its means of expertise, so that it can carry out essential impact assessments. [[Mr. M的jid El Guerrab and Mr. Stéphane Petit applause]] Under these conditions, we will succeed in the democratic revolution that we all expect for our country, whose democratic functioning is very ill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u74	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u75	Let us start with the end: I have no opinion – or at least I will abstain – on extending the term of office of EESC members. Nevertheless, I take advantage of this forum to address a central, major issue: the deep crisis of our democracy and our institutions, which it would be careless to underestimate. It's a bad time. Recently, municipal elections were held, which some described as "elections close to people". But their participation rate has been so low that it must encourage us to sound the alarm: it demonstrates the shortness of breath and even the undemocratic nature of our institutions. I apply this comment to myself, as to all of you: I myself, Member of Parliament for the seventh constituency of Seine-Saint-Denis, elected almost 60% in the second round, actually represent only some 20% of the registered voters; So, 80% of the people in my constituency didn't vote for me, and you're all in the same case! A few days ago – you were a winner of this reshuffle, Mr. Keeper of the Seals – we discovered a new Prime Minister whom no one knew in the country, appointed by the President of the Republic alone. The Members of the majority, particularly those of the LaREM Group, voted for confidence in this gentleman, simply because the President of the Republic trusts him. Ultimately, our institutions are based only on one election: the presidential election, which still has a relatively high turnout – although the latest elected candidate has been nominated more by rejection of her competitor than by membership of her own person. That is the root of the problem: we must stand by the reform of the institutions. The Members of the Group of the European People's Party have had the will to do so for some time now. We do not intend to organise this reform ourselves with DIY measures, by simply involving the EESC differently in Parliament, for example, but by reshaping the institutions from bottom to bottom, consulting the French, calling them to participate and thus resuming our history: let us convene a Constituent Assembly! Behind the hemicycle is a magnificent bronze of Jules Dalou depicting a scene of the general states of 23 June 1789, when Mirabeau retorted to the king's envoy, the Marquis de Dreux-Brézé, whom the representatives of the people now held sovereignty. "We are here by the will of the people, and we will come out only by the force of the bayonets" – true or not, the quotation has remained in history, affirming loud and clear an act of sovereignty. We must go back to that: it is up to the people themselves to appoint representatives to discuss, draft and draft a new Constitution. I hear President Macron wants to consult, consult and consult again. By force, the French will feel that they are being taken for consultancies! They're sick of it! Of course, there was the big debate – or rather, according to Bertrand Pancher, the "great blabla." Of course, people were given the floor, but a large majority of our fellow citizens did not attend, and the many interesting ideas of the participants were never made public. There has just emerged a desire for citizens' initiative referendum. The only conclusion drawn by the President of the Republic was that he was prepared to lower the threshold for the popular initiative referendum to 1 million petitioners. A few months later, when we had gathered 1 million signatures against the privatization of Paris airports, the President of the Republic returned to the only decision he had seemed to have taken from the great debate, and decided not to consult the French on this privatisation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u76	The project has been stopped!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u77	In the absence of a buyer, the project may not take place. Let us stop weaning the French with so-called consultations and so-called debates without a filter, so knowing that as soon as a decision could change the capital-labour distribution a little bit or demand an ecological effort, the President of the Republic removes it! Each time, it further degrades the relationship between our citizens and the institutions. We must return to fundamental principles: the people have sovereignty and must be consulted! He's the one to be summoned! It is up to him to decide the fate of the EESC, not the President of the Republic! The President was not elected for this, and it is not up to him to take his decision out of his hat, as the magician comes out of it a rabbit. It is up to the people to decide, because this institution concerns them. If we don't, we'll go into the wall once again. A few ideas to conclude: we must create the conditions for citizens' initiative referendums, offer new rights to our fellow citizens – why not to remove elected officials during their term of office – or even introduce compulsory voting, taking into account white ballots, or lower the right to vote to 16 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u78	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] These constitutional reforms would aim to remove power from the hands of the President of the Republic in order to give it back to a people's assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u80	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u81	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u82	As Alexis de Tocqueville writes: "Democracy extends the sphere of individual independence [...]. Democracy gives every man its full value." This theorist of democratic society, the thinker of social change, believes that democracy is more than a political regime; For him, it is a social state capable of reconciling the demand for freedom, the sovereignty of the people and the desire to organize the civic community. Thus, citizenship is not only defined from the legal point of view, by the possession of nationality and of civil and political rights; Rather, the concept of citizenship refers to active participation in the public life of the State, which makes it possible to strengthen democracy every day. Increasingly, French citizens are calling for active participation in the public life of the State through appropriate consultation tools and proposals. This will, heard by the Government and the majority, is illustrated in particular by the undeniable successes of the great national debate – in this I do not agree with you, Mr Corbière – and the Citizen's Convention for the Climate, unprecedented initiatives of participatory democracy. The EESC, the third assembly of the Republic, advises the Government and Parliament on the development of national policy. To this end, it produces opinions, reports and studies. Despite the desire of the population to participate more fully in the public life of the State, this assembly is struggling to play its full role because of its composition and its working methods. The proposed reform of the EESC, aimed at making it play a role in the development of participatory democracy, should contribute to better involving civil society in public action. By revising its composition and modernizing its functioning, it should enable it to become the hub of public consultations and thus better fulfil its objectives. As a Member of Parliament for the ninth constituency of the French abroad, I must draw your attention to the need to take into account an important part, I would say essential, of the French population, as part of the reform of this noble institution. The recent ministerial reshuffle was completed this weekend by the appointment of eleven Secretaries of State. Among them, it is essential to mention Mr. Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, in charge of tourism and the Francophonie, but also and especially of the French from abroad. The French abroad now have an interlocutor with the Government, which was not the case in previous governments; This appointment demonstrates the will of the executive to facilitate the integration and participation of French citizens residing abroad in the public and political life of our country. The French abroad also have their own consultative assembly: the Assembly of French Abroad. We support the idea that these structures should be rationalized and that public policies should be made more visible by involving the Assembly of French Foreigners in the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. It would thus become a sounding board for all the components of the nation, including the 3.5 million French people established around the world and all too often forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u83	Good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u84	Thank you, Mr. Pancher. French abroad are often the focus of attention before the elections; In those moments, they are recognized a thousand virtues – the thousand virtues of expatriation. Of the 3.5 million of our citizens living abroad, almost 2 million are registered on consular electoral lists. I call on everyone to have consideration, outside of election periods, for our compatriots living abroad. They would become an extraordinary competitive advantage for our economy if France knew how to use them, if it knew how to rely on these women and men to develop. That is why we must sincerely imagine a significant participation by them in the new EESC, in all its components: economic, cultural, associative and social. The Action Together Group will, without reservation and throughout its consideration, be part of a logic of acceptance of this text. Victor Hugo said: "Democracy is the great homeland. Let us consider, within our institutions, all our fellow citizens, both in France and abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u85	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u86	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u87	On 7 July, the Keeper of the Seals introduced a draft organic law on the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, and a draft organic law extending the term of office of its members. It is this second text that we are now considering, in an accelerated procedure. As regards a purely technical measure, we obviously have no serious reason to oppose this extension. Although the covid-19 has a good back: it seems that it has become a habit of adopting texts extending mandates... However, let us say at the outset, the vote just now will in no way prejudge our position on the forthcoming reform, which raises many questions. The EESC represents organised civil society: trade unions, associations, employers, mutuals. Heir to the National Economic Council, which was set up in 1925 as a centre for public opinion, the EESC remains an institution largely unknown to the general public and, when it is known, is the subject of many criticisms. These criticisms are of several natures. Its cost of operation is one of the first expressed: the EESC represented almost 40 million euros of expenditure for the State in 2017. Another criticism is that the lack of attendance of its members seems abnormally high. This absenteeism would confirm the idea that the institution would too often be used as a back-up base for former elected officials or people in difficulty, little motivated by the EESC's own work and little mobilised in its favour. This low level of mobilization would also be the result of the very small number of EESC requests from the Government and Parliament. In practice, 80% of the EESC's work is self-referral. As for the petitioner power, which had to make the EESC the receptacle of citizen speech since the 2008 reform, it is limited by the threshold of 500,000 signatures – which was reached only once, in 2013, on the opening of marriage to same-sex couples. The use of EESC productions can also be questioned: on average, between 15 and 25 reports and opinions per year. Yes, this institution should be changed, and I hope we will have a great and beautiful debate on the subject, which should not be examined under the budgetary prism alone. On the contrary, time should be given to consider how to facilitate referrals by means of petitions, how to develop the use of drawing lots in order to diversify, in particular from the social point of view, the public involved, how to combine intelligently, instead of opposing them, the consideration of the citizen's word and the valuable contribution of organised civil society, so as to foster convergence and joint construction, and how, finally, to ensure that this innovative participatory work really nourishes legislative work and informs the Government's action. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In all these areas, the Communist Members will, in due course, carry proposals. For the time being, we will vote in favour of extending the term of office of EESC members.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u88	Mrs Emilie Guerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u89	We are gathered here to address the difficulty of the expiry of the mandate of the members of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council on 14 November. Following the profound demands of citizens, reflecting a desire to change the democratic life of our country and the functioning of our institutions, as well as the Government's commitment to make them more representative, accountable and effective, a major national debate, allowing everyone to express themselves, was launched at the initiative of the President of the Republic in 2019. On that occasion, the vast majority of participants considered that the Economic, Social and Environmental Council was suffering from a lack of recognition and that its views were not sufficiently taken into account in the formulation of public policies. Indeed, while the Economic, Social and Environmental Council fully fulfils its role as a forum for exchange between the representatives of the economic and social interests of the nation, it struggles to find its place in the institutions of the Republic and to ensure the visibility of its work. This institution is also competed with a myriad of advisory bodies that sometimes have superior expertise or a more flexible organization. Although the constitutional reform of 23 July 2008 has modernized the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, it has not been possible to reaffirm the position of this advisory body within our institutions. As a result, the Government has initiated the preparation of a draft organic law to bring new breath and visibility to the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. Its will is to make this body a veritable crossroads of public consultation and the singing of the direct participation of citizens in the life of the city. This reform, which we will be discussing in September, is also intended to radically change the composition of the Council, in order to return to its vocation of representing civil society. It appears, however, that this draft organic law cannot be finally adopted by Parliament and promulgated until the current term of office of 233 members of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council ends, since this five-year term is due to expire on 14 November 2020. Therefore, in order to preserve the functioning of the EESC in a transitional manner, this draft organic law tends to extend the term of office of its current members until the organic law reforming the Council enters into force and no later than 1 June 2021. This extension is essential since, on the one hand, it will enable its members to ensure the Council's missions without interruption until the reform enters into force, and, on the other hand, it will avoid the inconvenience of appointing the next members of the Council on the basis of the former composition of that institution. Such an extension is not new, since this solution has already been used several times. In 2009, the Constitutional Council had admitted the extension of the term of office of EESC members pending reform of the institution. In its opinion of 25 June 2020 on the draft organic law, the Council of State confirms that the extension of EESC members' mandates does not encounter any constitutional or treaty obstacles. At its hearing, Patrick Bernasconi, President of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, stressed the importance of this transitional measure and recalled that the representatives of the 18 groups of the Council all agreed on the need to extend their mandate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] Given the very limited purpose of the text – I would remind you that there is no need to comment today on the future composition of the EESC since its reform is part of another legislative vehicle, which was tabled before the National Assembly's Bureau and which Parliament is due to consider at the beginning of 2020 – the Republic on the move Group will support this extension, which is in the public interest and which is both necessary and justified. To oppose this would have the effect of abandoning the very possibility of reforming the EESC, a measure which appears to be an overriding necessity. I therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, that you adopt this essential and consensual organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u90	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u91	The crisis of the covid-19, which we are still facing, has upset our country in its every aspect: our health system has been put to the test, our economy will face its strongest recession since the Second World War, our democracy itself has experienced a period of arrest with the postponement of the second round of municipal elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u92	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u93	Parliament assumed its responsibilities by continuing to sit at the heart of the crisis, in order to minimize its consequences and to take the necessary measures: the establishment and extension of the state of health emergency, the adoption of three amending finance bills and the extension of certain provisions of the Act of 30 October 2017 strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism. Today we are gathered to draw the consequences of this crisis on the Economic, Social and Environmental Council by extending the term of office of its current members for one year. This five-year term expires in November 2020; It is therefore proposed to extend it until November 2021. As the EESC is a consultative chamber, we can afford to wait until the coronavirus epidemic is behind us to launch a campaign to renew its members. There would be a lot to say about the EESC: we started discussing it two years ago during the constitutional review, which was aborted for reasons unrelated to the fact that it was moving in a dangerous direction for our institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u94	Yes! It was the Benalla case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u95	We will have the opportunity to resume this debate in September, thanks to the organic bill tabled in the House on 7 July. The Group of the Republicans will remain very attentive to the balance of our institutions as it has been thought for our country, with two parliamentary chambers, elected, and a third chamber, consultative, which, because of the method of appointing its members, cannot take a place other than that which it already occupies. While last year's yellow vest crisis, the crisis of the covid-19 this year, reminded us of the importance of the link between citizens and their elected officials, giving more importance to a chamber made up of appointed members would only throw a little more trouble in the minds of our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] Twelve years ago, during the 2008 constitutional review, I was rapporteur on the current EESC section, which we then had on its environmental side. Things haven't changed so much since then. When I hear the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic talk about the three chambers by putting them on the same footing, it makes me jump in my chair! I would like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that as I speak to you, the EESC remains a cheese from the Republic; To the right, to the left, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the left, to the right, to the right, to the
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u96	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u97	Don't make us illusions: that's how it is. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] However, we must not be mistaken about the debate. We will be able to discuss all this at the beginning of the year; It is best to give us time to do so by extending the mandate of economic, social and environmental advisers for a further year. Thus, the adoption of almost an anime of this text in the Senate should not prejudge in any way the position of the various groups in this House with regard to the September text. In order to avoid an institutional disturbance and to take into account all the consequences of the crisis that we are going through, the Republican Group will therefore vote in favour of the text presented to us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u98	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u99	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u100	We have completed our review of the articles of the Organic Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u101	I put the whole organic bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u102	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u103	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u104	The next item is the debate on the bioethics bill (No. 2658, 3181). The Conference of Presidents decided to apply the scheduled legislative time procedure to this discussion, on the basis of time allocated to the 25-hour groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u105	It's tyranny, speaking time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u106	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u107	The bioethics bill arrives in the Chamber at second reading, i.e. without resorting to the accelerated procedure, because the issues discussed are complex and time-consuming. We all remember the high-quality exchanges that began a few months ago – the sincere questions and doubts that have passed through the House, as well as the convictions that are emerging there. It was almost a year ago. Everyone on these benches will recognize that the debate at first reading was a serene debate, rich and respectful of each other's positions, far from the caricatures and invectives sometimes experienced in the course of our work or in the debates of society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u108	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u109	Beyond the traditional divides, I think I can say that, with regard to matters that affect what we have most intimately, there are as many sensitivities as there are representatives of the nation. More than any other piece of legislation, bioethics laws are not well suited to voting delegations and group instructions. It must be said: few bills can take pride in bringing everyone back to their own conception of life, as is the case with the bioethics bill. This highly subjective relationship to the text has advantages – the enrichment of certain provisions at first reading is proof of this, for example those concerning children with variations in genital development. It also has disadvantages, which are due to the difficulty of concluding on what the law accepts from science. But I am sure that, if we retain the humble, curious and constructive state of mind that prevailed at first reading, we will give the text the balance it may still lack to achieve the widest possible support. The bioethics bill contains many societal advances. It is a text expected by families, of course, but also by researchers, scientists and doctors. It was therefore essential that the parliamentary shuttle should continue. In this regard, I note that, while there are still differences on the extension of the MPA – reproductive medical assistance – to women's couples and single women, they focus more on its care than on the extension itself. That said, the expansion of access to MPA techniques has not yet been fully achieved, and the fight for equality remains to be pursued. My fight to recognize the family in its diversity is not a new fight. Socialist deputy, I was from every forum to ask the then Government to open the right to the LDC – medically assisted procreation – to all women. I am proud to be at the rostrum today, as Minister of Solidarity and Health of the Republic on the move, to finally open this new right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u110	What about euthanasia?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u111	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I don't know if the family is a landmark; She is, no doubt. What I know is that it is always a starting point: the starting point of an individual's life, the starting point of a citizen's construction. The only starting point that counts when you are thrown into existence is the love of those who welcome you. This is the only balance we should be concerned about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u112	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u113	As Michel Serres said, "we are only parents... if [we say] to [n]our child "I have chosen you", "I adopt you because I love you, "I have wanted you". That's the point. The French family is growing, strong because it is rich in its diversity. It is not a frozen and locked entity. She has the face of a school outing, with parents who come to pick up their children and who are not asked if they are homosexual, heterosexual or single, because all this seems to be accessory. The only thing that matters is that the kids are happy. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u114	All right! We agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u115	I remember the debates that preceded the passage of the same-sex marriage bill in 2012. At the time, the issue of opening the LDC to women's couples had been addressed without being included in the legislation. I was very impressed by an audition in which a young man who was barely a major said: "All my childhood, I was raised by two mothers who raised me with love and tenderness. All my existence, I considered my situation to be perfectly normal. Then, at the turn of the sometimes extremely hard debates that accompanied the text on marriage for all, he was made aware that he might not have been raised in a normal way by a loving family. He said to me: "This kind of words, this kind of debate can hurt us. » I have been very attentive at first reading, during which these words and phrases that can hurt have been avoided on both sides of the House. I invite you to keep this spirit for second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, LT and Agir ens. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] We must not hurt, we must not hit; We can debate our differences – the Chamber is made for this – provided we do so with respect for individuals and human beings who are behind each of the words and sentences that we will deliver this week. The Government had made the choice, which had been welcomed by all, not to initiate the accelerated procedure. This means that we are taking the time for debate, but also that several readings are needed before the bill is finally passed. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I want to cut short the noises that claim that we're putting the text in catini before summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u118	Yes, I do! Assume it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] That is not true: the proof is that we are here for the parliamentary debate to take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u120	You don't have any better things to do with the health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u121	How many members of the majority are there? Not even 5%!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u122	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – New exclamations on the banks of the LR group]] Mr President, everyone is free to mobilize his group to defend the interests he believes are right. I will not fight you to count the number of parliamentarians present at your side to harangue me, but know that Parliament is open, that the majority is there, solid, and that it will remain so until the end of the week. Work continued in a special committee at the end of June. I thank all those who have come back to the saddle to defend their beliefs and proposals, and the Government is now ready to discuss the measures adopted in the context of this work. But a second reading cannot be a "return match".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u123	Is that why you intend to go back to the text voted in special committee, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u124	By tabling amendments, the Government intends to preserve the balance of the text it has always defended before each of the two chambers of Parliament. A balance between social progress and the preservation of the principles attached to the gift, whether it be the donation of gametes or the donation of blood; we will have the opportunity to come back to this during the discussions on the ROPA method – receiving oocytes from the partner – the donation of blood from HSH – men who have sex with men – and the donation of blood from minors. A balance between the openness of the techniques allowed by scientific advances and the commitment to respect for human beings in their application; I am thinking here of the extension of the IPR – pre-implantation diagnosis – to the search for aneuploidies or neonatal screening. The advent of genetic techniques questions our relationship to medicine, to the patient and ultimately to the human. Moving forward without fear is not going forward at any price, no matter what. We will have an opportunity to debate, I am sure, but there is not morals on the one hand and immorality on the other, there is not necessarily conservative and the other necessarily progressive. The same political group can be crossed by different ideas. This is what makes the debates about bioethics laws rich: everyone must be able to assert their convictions with force. The Government made the agreed choice to propose a return to the balance of the first reading, as it believed that it had been built through high-quality debates, during which everyone had been free to explain himself/herself. That's how our principles are solid and they don't change in a few months. The main principles at the heart of the bill are the dignity of the human person, the autonomy of everyone and the solidarity of all. We will have to make the right choices so that these principles are not abstract incantations, but demands of every day. I know the road is very narrow; We are on a ridge between possible and desirable, between sometimes painful individual journeys and acceptable collective consequences. This second reading should allow us to turn the ridge line into a roadmap for the coming years. Having lived the first reading as a Member of Parliament on these benches, I know it only too well: there are no irresponsible apprentice witches on one side and, on the other, cracked reactionaries on the other; There are only parliamentarians who want to exchange and defend convictions, with ardour but always with respect. As a member of the Special Committee, I myself formed convictions during the examination of the text – which is not always the case – thanks to the richness of our exchanges, and the positions I have adopted have been strengthened by the exercise of the parliamentary debate. This is the beauty of the review of bioethics laws. It is Parliament's honour to discuss such important issues: the principles of gamete donation, the continuation of the MPA in the event of the spouse's death, access to personal origins, genetic testing, blood donation, prenatal diagnosis extended to aneuploidies, neonatal screening and embryo research. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Every voice must be heard, and will be heard. At the end of the discussion, I am convinced, we will find together the right balance and nuances for a text of which everyone can be proud, a text that will open up new rights without yielding anything to our values. The debates are going to be rich and I propose, without further delay, to start them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u125	It's a reverse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u126	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u127	What's he gonna do as a sonage?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u128	I am pleased and proud to present at second reading, alongside my colleagues Olivier Véran, Frédérique Vidal and Adrien Taquet, the bioethics bill. The Assembly has already had an opportunity to discuss the text at first reading last autumn; for following up on your previous debates, I know that the exchanges have been of great quality and that, as such, they are a way forward for the next few days. Indeed, Minister of Solidarity and Health, words are sometimes weapons. I will be the guarantor of the balances that have been found. That is the promise I made to my predecessor, Nicole Belloubet, who had made a great deal of commitment to this text. Tonight, we're not leaving anything. The balance reached by the House, and by the majority in particular, is for me an agreement that I intend to respect. I would therefore like to thank you for the work already done. But I also know that it is now my job to defend this text before you, in this case Articles 4 and 4 bis, and I hope that our discussions will be just as rich as the previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u129	Yes, Article 4 bis must be restored!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u130	The debate – the contradiction, as I often say – has always been the salt of my professional life, and I hope to find it here with you. From what I read here and there, I understand that I will not be disappointed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u131	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u132	But let us keep the objective in mind, the only one that must animate us: to advance together our rule of law so that it remains inclusive and protective. First of all, as my predecessor had done, I would like to point out that what we are discussing is not intended to reform the law of filiation. It is the consequences of bioethics choices that lead us to deal with filiation. Article 4, in particular, draws precisely the consequences, in terms of filiation, of the opening of new rights to women, whether or not they live in a couple: that of resorting to reproductive medical assistance and that of being recognized as mothers of the child from birth. It is a considerable step forward in the long journey towards equality of rights to enable families to be fully recognized by law. They've been waiting for this for a long time. If it could be said that dealing with bioethics was not intended to ensure equal rights but to question medical techniques in accordance with our ethical principles, it must be noted that what you have done – and I hope will confirm – will enable women's couples to use the LDC in our territory and to become both mothers of the child; This is a remarkable step forward for the principle of equality on the frontispiece of all our town halls. The same article also provides for the proclamation, in a new article 6-2 of the Civil Code, of the complete equality of all children, regardless of their mode of conception. I know that some of you are more reserved than I am on this issue because they fear that this law will weaken a more traditional model of the family, a model to which they are attached and which they think threatened. I want to tell them that I respect their convictions, be they moral or religious, and that I firmly want our debates to allow everyone to express themselves, to be heard, and, of course, to respect everyone. But I want to make it as clear to them that it is not the law that is behind the evolution of society and the family.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u133	Exactly! She's following the company!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u134	It is not by voting this text that you are going to give women's couples the opportunity to raise a child together since this possibility, in fact, already exists: children are there, sometimes even already large!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u135	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u136	[[Caroline Abadie applauds]] Therefore, by voting on clause 4 of the bill, you do not open the door to new practices but, on the contrary, you give rights and legal certainty to both mothers and children, to families that already exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u138	Indeed, you protect the mothers, starting with the mother who did not give birth to the child and whose place next to him now depends on the only good will of her companion, and also the mother who gave birth to the child and who, tomorrow, will be able to rely on her companion, in case of separation, to take care of the latter's education and maintenance; Last but not least, you protect the child from the risk that the separation will permanently deprive him of one of the mothers who raised him. To this end, your assembly voted on first reading a simple and effective mechanism: when consenting to the LDC, the two women will make a joint recognition before the notary which will devote their joint parental project and, at the time of birth, this joint recognition will establish filiation. This system is as close as possible to that applicable to couples formed by a man and a woman, without discrimination: equal rights are guaranteed and the steps to be taken do not require more formalities than those required for a couple formed by a man and a woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u139	Not quite...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u140	I am therefore pleased that your special committee has returned to this solution and has not retained the mechanism for the adoption by the Senate. There is no need here to subject the establishment of filiation to the control of a judge – it is a different matter with regard to GPA made abroad, I will return to it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I also fully agree with the two amendments to Article 4 made by your Special Committee. First of all, she drew a distinction, for the establishment of filiation, between the woman who gave birth, the mother of that act alone, and the other woman whose filiation was established by the effect of joint recognition, thus raising an ambiguity in the text adopted at first reading, which gave rise to the reproach of denying the reality of childbirth. Secondly, your special commission has intended to provide solutions for women's couples who have used a LDC abroad before the entry into force of this law: they will be able, for three years from its promulgation, to establish filiation through joint recognition. These two amendments bring real improvements to the text. That is why I would like to thank the chairman of the special committee, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, the rapporteur Coralie Dubost, and her other members, including MEP Aurore Bergé, for the excellent work done. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group. – Mr M的jid El Guerrab and Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applaud]] I come to clause 4 bis of the bill. There is, of course, a link between LDCs and GPA, since both involve the use of reproductive health assistance techniques. However, as you know, GPA has been banned in France since 1994, and the Government does not intend to revert to this ban today. However, it cannot be denied that some children are designed by GPA abroad to circumvent this prohibition. And these children also have the right to a secure legal framework. The European Court of Human Rights also requires us to allow the bond of filiation between the child and his or her parents of intention to be established once this bond has materialized. Until the end of 2019, the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation had balanced the fate of these children. It allowed the foreign birth certificate to be transcribed to the civil registry in respect of the father and, in parallel, admitted the establishment of the bond of filiation in respect of the intending parent through adoption. However, despite the conformity of the French system with the European Convention, the Court of Cassation, by judgments of 18 December 2019, amended its jurisprudence to allow the transcription of all filiations in foreign civil registration documents, provided that this is in accordance with the law of the State where the GPA was practised. This new case law therefore allows for the recognition of filiation with respect to the parent of intention, without any control of the child's interest or of the conditions under which the surrogate mother renounced her rights. Some argue that in some countries this is going very well, and in others, the conditions of GPA are much more questionable. I refuse to enter into this debate: the prohibition of the GPA remains a red line for the Government, which therefore wishes to return to the state of the case law prior to this reversal: no more, no less. This implies that, for the control of foreign acts, the conformity with the reality of the statements contained in the act is assessed in the light of French law and its criteria: in France, when a woman gave birth, she is the mother of the child; the civil status document which designates another woman in her place is not in conformity with reality and cannot be transcribed. I therefore fully agree with the wording of Article 4a, which, as adopted by your committee, amends Article 47 of the Civil Code to indicate that the facts of the references to civil status documents must be assessed in the light of French law. In accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, filiation with respect to the intending parent may then be established by adoption. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the MODEM group. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you have understood, what we are going to discuss this week is the translation of a joint work with Members of Parliament and with senators on all political sides: it is an illustration of our ability to move forward together! That is why I invite you to vote for this secure, realistic and legally sound text, which will give all children the same rights while giving their parents, again, the same rights and, I stress, the same duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u141	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u142	This text, which I had the honour of defending for the first time before you in the fall of 2019, transcribes strong commitments of this government, commitments that have never been discussed to neglect or betray. Our presence here before you, for this second reading, is the most obvious example. But while this text carries commitments, it also gives hope to our fellow citizens and, with regard to Title IV, which concerns my ministry in particular, to the scientific community. The health crisis has highlighted the extraordinary work and quality of our research, and I would like to acknowledge the unwavering commitment of our researchers who have been working hard for weeks to help us understand and stem this pandemic. The multi-year research programming bill, which I tabled in the Council of Ministers last Wednesday, will provide them with the means to continue this tremendous work with an unprecedented investment of €25 billion over the next ten years. The bill we are discussing today also responds to a specific need of our researchers, that of supervised freedom, defined strictly by law: it is the very principle of our right to bioethics to enable them to produce the ideas and knowledge we need and to provide them with the necessary levers for that purpose, but within the strict framework of our principles and values. Looking back at this bill with you, I want to believe that this troubled period that we have just been through will strengthen the bond of trust between society and the scientific community. For in essence this is the whole issue of a law of bioethics: it carries questions and questions that we all share, which are not the hunt kept by specialists, lawyers or scientists; And that is why the periodic review of this law, which is the specificity of our country, is so essential and so remarkable. Each of the laws passed since 1994 has brought together society and advances in science. I believe that this meeting is more necessary than ever; I will even say that it is indispensable. Many questions have emerged at first reading, in your assembly and then in the Senate, which voted on the text last February and amended it in large part. All the questions asked are not yet resolved, but collective reflection is progressing, whether in embryonic research, embryonic stem cells or induced stem cells. Again, I have heard the reservations and fears of some, and I will, of course, try, as I have done in our previous debates, to give them all the guarantees that underlie the provisions of this bill, and in particular its Title IV. But, in spite of the divisions and oppositions that have so logically been heard, the discussion has always met this dual requirement of dignity and respect that we owe to our fellow citizens when we address such issues. I know that the National Assembly will once again meet this requirement, as it was when the text was discussed at first reading. The ambition of this bill, the progress and the developments it brings for our fellow citizens and for our researchers, you know them well now, ladies and gentlemen, since we had high-quality debates last autumn and you still had some, a few weeks ago, in a special committee. And I would like to pay tribute to the work of this commission, chaired by Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo: it has enabled the great balances of Title IV to be restored as it was voted in the National Assembly at first reading, before being amended by the Senate. However, I would like to go back to a few fundamentals, reminding you first of all that this bill sets out a renewed legal framework for our research, based on nearly two decades of experiments in laboratories as well as by the Biomedicine Agency and also on the latest scientific progress, which now allows us to address these issues differently. Questions about embryo research remain. They are nevertheless updated by the latest scientific breakthroughs, whether they are new techniques for the derivation of embryonic stem cells, the discovery of induced pluripotent stem cells – IPS – or experiments on chimeral embryos. In the field of embryo research, the text provides for the authorisation of researchers to conduct studies including the editing of the embryo genome which, no longer being the subject of a parental project, are intended to be destroyed. This research brings knowledge essential to understanding the role of our genes in cell differentiation mechanisms during development and in other physiological or pathological processes. Recent developments in techniques now allow these embryos to be observed in longer phases of their development. That is why we have proposed setting a limit of fourteen days for this observation – a limit which I am pleased that the National Assembly adopted at first reading. This duration, I would remind you, is far from arbitrary: it is based on an international scientific consensus. The Senate wished to introduce an exemption from this limit by increasing it to 21 days for research into embryonic development. I take note of the re-establishment of the fourteen-day limit, which was voted in the special committee at the beginning of the month. I would also like to reiterate very clearly here the major prohibitions that the bill confirms: the creation of embryos for research purposes is prohibited, as is the modification of the genetic heritage that is transmissible to progeny and the integration of animal cells into a human embryo. This text protects our model, but respects and updates embryo-specific questioning, while preventing any possibility of cloning and modifying the genetic heritage of an embryo intended for implantation. However, it allows us to set aside spaces for therapeutic innovations that we could develop if we better understand the mechanisms of cell development and differentiation. The therapeutic expectations raised by embryonic stem cells require a change in the legal regime to which research on embryonic stem cells is subjected. The latter is confused with the one who oversees embryo research. However, we master advanced techniques to derive very long and sometimes very old stem cell lines: stem cells used in our laboratories are mostly derived from lines derived more than twenty years ago and therefore no longer result from the destruction of an embryo. What ultimately questions is therefore less the origin of stem cells than our ability to derive current lines without altering them and maintaining their pluripotent potential. That is why we are proposing to reduce the regime applicable to stem cell research, which would now be subject to a reporting regime with the Biomedicine Agency. This bill also provides an account of how legislators can address the latest scientific news through the issue of induced pluripotent stem cells. While embryonic stem cells may evolve to a very close stage to embryonic stem cells, embryonic stem cells may become any other type of human cells, such is not the case of induced cells, whose evolutions are, at present, more limited in our knowledge. In other words, while the discovery of SPIs is a major scientific event, these cells are not an alternative to embryonic stem cell or embryonic research. It is therefore a new territory of knowledge that we must integrate into the renovated framework of this bill. Our ability to derive stem cells naturally does not exhaust the need to continue research on the embryo: researchers will need to produce new knowledge. That is why it is essential that we continue to work in these areas. It seems fundamental to me to come back for a moment to the question of the so-called chemeric embryos. These experiments, I know, are calling. They raise questions, and sometimes fantasies, about the work actually done by researchers. The "chimers" do not correspond to genetic manipulations: in no case is it a question of modifying the genome, of crossing the barrier of species, or of producing conscious animals or other human faculties. The aim is to observe in a different context the mechanisms for understanding normal or pathological development and proposing new therapeutic paths. The current legal framework clearly prohibits the introduction of animal genetic material into a human embryo and this absolute prohibition remains, but the law does not say anything about the inverse manipulations necessary for research when it comes to agglomeration of human embryonic stem cells to an animal embryo. We have made the choice to clarify this situation and finally to define an intelligible legal framework for these techniques on which many hopes are based – notably that of producing animal models that will allow to better understand certain human pathologies and develop treatments – in order to guarantee society's confidence in the scientific community. As you can see, it is by opening new paths, by drawing new limits, but also by reaffirming red lines that this text draws the contours of a search that is both free and responsible. The Government's intention is that the debate will continue under the conditions of serenity necessary for us to achieve, with the Senate, a balance on these various issues. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] As you will have noticed, there is no shortage of subjects for debate. We will once again have the privilege of exploring them together and pulling out all the threads and consequences throughout this week.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u143	Mr Jean-Louis Touraine, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u144	Many of us are delighted to finally be able to consider this beautiful bioethics bill at second reading. Some dream of further delaying adoption – those who do not want it. Of course we can understand and respect their different opinions, but the method of invoking one day the summer or the last months of a health crisis and then trying, the next day, to empty the text of its meaning or to reserve it only to wealthy women, is questionable. In fact, this law, which is wanted by the largest number of people, supported by the majority in our assembly, expected by many women and set out in the presidential programme as well as in that of many deputies, will indeed be voted on. We can be proud of that and we will all have contributed to it, members of the Government as deputies of the majority and the opposition. It is a law of reasonable progress, a law of balance, and above all a law of defence of the rights of the child. I would almost say that it is a law of love: love in all families, regardless of parental sexual orientation; love given by parents to their children; filial love at last. We parliamentarians have an obvious priority: to defend the rights of the weakest and weakest. The priority interest of children is the concern that has animated us throughout the work on each of the articles of the text, in particular on article 1, which opens the LDC to all women. How can we better defend the interests of the child than by allowing him to be born within a family that has desired, hoped for and waited for him and promises to pamper him, love him and educate him? All studies confirm that the various types of families can provide good conditions for development. Some, I've heard them, would like to establish a right to father for every child. Apart from the fact that this right is not requested by the children concerned, it cannot exist legally, nor does the right to the child exist for the parents. How, moreover, can we impose on all women who raise their children alone the presence on their side of an unwanted father? How can we force a child who has two mothers to forget one of them, who gives her all her love, to replace her with a foreign father? All these fantasies must of course be ruled out. Without a preconceived ideology, we must pragmatically analyse the few improvements to be made to the text proposed ten months ago by the Special Committee, drawing on the spirit and serenity that prevailed at first reading. The national solidarity of the AMP routes – medical assistance for procreation – without distinction based on the sexual orientation of the parents, is necessary. The AMP is already supported for non-sterile heteroparental couples. The opening of this practice to married women and single women requires the same treatment if we want, as the Council of State calls for, to respect the tradition of solidarity of our health system. We also allowed the double donation of gametes again, allowing single infertile women to carry out their parenting project. Interesting discussions will resume on the surviving LDC of will, a strong symbol of the recognition of women's right to extend the parental project conceived with their husbands, in the wake of the right they were able to conquer forty-five years ago with the freedom to pursue or not a pregnancy. The possibility for a woman to pass on her oocytes to her wife without fertilising oocytes was adopted by the special commission. It has, curiously, given rise to surrealist comments. I will not dwell on incomprehensible contrasensions or abuse of language, such as the fact that the ROPA method, the reception of oocytes from the partner, to a GPA, while it is precisely the opposite – there can be no gestation for others when pregnancy involves both parents: it is indeed a gestation for the family itself and not for another couple. On the other hand, the argument that the donation of oocytes would be dangerous for one of the mothers of the child to come but not for a woman foreign to the couple is considered hypocritical by the president of the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français, Mrs Belaisch-Allart, who sees no reason other than ideological to oppose this practice. All professionals of the procreation, like all the couples concerned,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u145	Please conclude, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u146	... wait for this natural progress as they also expect the IPR-A – pre-implantation diagnosis of aneuploidies – a measure of common sense also adopted in the special commission and on which we also hear words confining to absurdity. As the rapporteur responsible for this part of the text will explain better than I do, the word "eugenics" is used here totally in contradiction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u147	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u148	I conclude by expressing to you the pleasure that I have had – and will still have all week – to confront various points of view with my colleagues, regardless of the benches on which they sit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u149	He exceeded his speaking time by more than a minute!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u150	Let us be constructive collectively and adopt the medical and societal advances that bring only opportunities for development to our fellow citizens...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u151	It is time to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u152	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... without risk of drifts, and with appropriate framing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u153	Mrs Coralie Dubost, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u154	Freedom, equality, fraternity: this law is perfectly structured around our motto, precisely because the encounter between science and society questions the ethics of our Republic. Is this a law of equality? Let's be frank: from the point of view of the couple, no. The equality of the carnal experience in the couple during an AMP is not possible because, in a parent, heterosexual or homosexual project – forgive the familiarity of the words that will follow, but the real is so – there is no equality between the one who, every day at the same time, must lock himself in a bathroom to sting in the bottom of the belly and the one who awaits him in the living room; no equality either when you take hormonal treatment that makes you juggle, both physically and from the point of view of your temperament; No equality either when you are the one who, for 15 days, every morning before going to work, has to take a blood test and an intravaginal ultrasound to monitor follicle growth and hear one morning say: "It's today that you're being picked up, cancel all your appointments, we're going to the O.R. » On the other hand, fairness and justice are possible in the intimate sphere; But that is not the case with the law. What is in the field of the law is the fact that we can accompany these women, these couples, these families, in the most respectful way possible. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] With this in mind, I propose that you evacuate from the debate certain inept assumptions made in the special committee. Let us no longer hear the words "caprice" or "fancy" of women in these places. On the other hand, I agree that this text represents a legislative block of equality between heteroparental and homoparental families: equal access to the GPA for all women, equality of children from giving regardless of their parent's sexual orientation or equality of rights between parents and their child. If there are many accents of equality in this law, we must not hide them, we must be proud of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u155	So yes, equality is imperfect. This bill does not provide for a comprehensive reform of the law of filiation. This is due to the very nature of our text, which is confined to the field of bioethics. Personally, I am very much in favour of going much further on the reform of the law of filiation, but by democratic method, not cavalierly. Let us already defend with dignity the measures of progress contained in the bill entrusted to us by the Government, on the basis of the commitment of the President of the Republic. Allow me to pay tribute here to the tremendous work done by Nicole Belloubet and Agnès Buzyn at first reading. Freedom, then: that of determining oneself by forming a couple, by building a family and first of all by defining one's identity. The purpose of this bill is to address major issues of personal freedom. Because the foundation of societies will always be the family, it was time for ours to recognize all of its families. These are so-called classics, recomposed, homoparental or even single-parental. They are plural, perfectly diverse and all similar in one point: they constitute the core of the identity of each individual, which is vital to be built, to be located in the world, to take his place in society. Identity can be seen in an essentialist way, starting from oneself, from what one is – or at least from what one thinks to be. However, we would only be a sum of self-centered and isolated individuals if we were to limit ourselves to that. Identity obviously includes a relational dimension. It is defined by our relationship to others: our parents in the first place, siblings, schools, friends, work, the state, religion for some, science for others, in short, our environment. The part of the intimate and the public can then meet or even shock each other. This will certainly give rise to fine debates. But one thing is certain: the right to determine one's identity is an irreducible part of the right to respect for one's privacy and dignity. In this sense, asserting that the State must obstruct the knowledge, by some, of its personal origins would constitute an infringement of this free will. I will therefore firmly defend the balance that we will have to find in order to respect the full dignity of each and every person who comes from an MPA with third-party donors, with respect for the latter. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, Active ens. and SOC]] Fraternity, at last. She goes through the gift. What more generous act than that of the donor or the gamete donor? Even though this is not the central point of this text, I would also like to greet all the donors and donors in France who have allowed parents to come, families to become. To become a parent is to accept self - disentanglement in order to devote oneself to others. Of course, there are parents who may be reluctant to take care of others or refuse to make them independent. But this is not the case with the families we are talking about. By accepting the gift of a third party to make their plan of life happen, these parents had to upstream abandon a part of themselves, disentangle themselves from their flesh and accept that of others to concentrate on the essential: the subject to come, the child. An extraordinary maturity is acquired during this parental journey. One day, perhaps during the next bioethics law, we will be able to debate the creation of a donor's status and give it societal recognition – I know that some people are interested in it. This would mark the end of the taboo of origins.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u156	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u157	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, Active ens. and SOC]] The collective recognition of the gesture of gift would be the sign of a mature society, which grew up to find appeasement about the myth of begetting. No matter what the nature of the act, whether carnal, medical or legal: as long as the gesture unfolds in responsibility, respect and love.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u158	Mr Hervé Saulignac, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u159	The bioethics bill will therefore be considered before the summer truce. I welcome this because it enshrines new rights. If the crisis that is going on in our country obviously calls for the mobilization of all our forces, it must not impose putting in brackets what was initiated in August 2019 by our assembly, unless it instills doubt about the intentions of those who defend this text. Let us beware that the parliamentary shuttle will continue as soon as possible, so that our work will be completed by 2021. With regard to the title of which I have the honour of being the rapporteur, the text adopted by the Senate has resulted in significant improvements that must be welcomed. I will not dwell on the few differences that remain at this stage between our two assemblies. I would rather like to welcome the fact that in the special committee, we have chosen to adopt several articles as they were written in the Senate or with some editorial adjustments. This shows that the text we have reached has reached its right balance. This second reading was, above all, an opportunity for our special commission to explore two important issues that have been introduced into the Senate through additional articles. First of all, I am thinking of section 7 bis, on blood donation, which the Senate has opened to 17-year-olds and some of the majors protected. Moreover, our special commission, after exciting debates, made the choice to solemnly reaffirm the principle already laid down in the law in 2016, which states that "no one can be excluded from the donation of blood because of his sexual orientation". Despite this provision, everyone knows that, in practice, a specific period of abstinence is still imposed on men who have sex with other men. Since last April, this deadline has been reduced to four months, which is obviously a step forward. But discrimination remains at a time when its foundation has been eroded over time – if it is possible to admit that discrimination is well founded. How can we explain that a man, a couple for many years with another man, is excluded from the blood donation if he has had sexual intercourse with his spouse in the last four months? Since sexual behaviour poses an identical risk to a donor, whether heterosexual or homosexual, how can the pre-donation questionnaire treat each other differently? Mr.Minister of Solidarity and Health, you did the same analysis in 2013 in a report. I quote: "The mistake is to limit ourselves to sexuality, even though it is sexual behaviour that can be at risk, regardless of sexual orientation elsewhere. I am, of course, unable to agree with this statement. Of course, the precautionary principle must be respected. The donation of blood is not a right and it is our duty to ensure the safety of recipients. It is this double requirement that the legislator must satisfy: to seek the universality of the gift and to ensure the health security of the recipient. We must rely on scientifically proven facts. A note published last April by Santé publique France estimated the consequences of the alignment of the criteria. The residual HIV risk for donations would be 1 in 4.3 million, a level of security three times higher than 20 years ago. The same study also estimates that this alignment would correspond to an additional 3122 donors. The time has therefore come for national representation to say that this risk is now so low that there is no longer any objection to the removal of the specific abstinence period for homosexual men, in accordance with an inclusive rule of law that you called for earlier, Mr. Keeper of Seals. We have adopted very broadly in committee an amendment jointly signed by some 100 Members and supported by five group presidents. I thank them all and invite you to confirm this vote in a few hours. On a completely different subject, the Senate also adopted an additional article on the donation of the body to science, following the macabre scandal that tainted the centre of the donation of the bodies of the University Paris-Descartes. This Article 7b fills a worrying legal gap. Indeed, while the law strictly regulates organ donation, it says absolutely nothing about the donation of the body to science. In committee, we went further than the simple administrative authorization provided by the Senate, with the objective of ending certain practices, at least heterogeneous according to the centres. Thus, nothing is provided for by the law on the fate of the given bodies. In particular, not all centres agree to return the ashes to the family. On a less fundamental subject, but also of importance, many institutions seem to involve donor families by charging them participation fees, which in fact correspond to the cost of transporting the bodies to the institution. The Special Committee adopted, on my initiative, an amendment in the direction of greater clarification of these issues. [[Applause on the SOC benches as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] New and exciting debates await us on all these issues. So it is with enthusiasm but also, you understand, with a form of hope that I approach this second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u160	Mr Philippe Berta, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u161	We are now discussing the second reading of the bioethics bill in the House. First of all, let me hope that our debates will remain of the same quality as at first reading and in the special committee. I am pleased that, despite the timing changes that we are all experiencing, we have succeeded in organizing the examination of this text before the summer truce, because we must move forward on the various issues covered by this law. You have entrusted me with the responsibility of Titles III and IV which relate, on the one hand, to the articulation between our ethical principles and scientific progress and, on the other hand, to research on embryos and stem cells. Title III covers the dissemination and use of scientific and technological progress. The use of genetic testing remains, and should remain, limited to medical and scientific fields only in order to avoid their use for industrial, commercial or simple purposes, with the risks involved. Furthermore, I would like to point out that in the special committee we have reached a balanced wording to ensure the use of algorithmic treatment of massive health data. As for the use of recordings of brain activity, it seems to me that my colleague Jean-François Eliaou has tabled an amendment in line with the one I myself tabled in the special committee, which I can only rejoice at. Title IV deals with embryo and stem cell research. On this subject, this bill pursues several objectives, including reorganizing and clarifying, but also consolidating, the legislative framework for this type of research. In the opinion of all specialists, innovative, cellular and gene therapies have had first great successes and have led to major therapeutic hopes and ambitions for the future. They are the basis of the era of personalized medicine in which we have entered. Multiple, the pathologies involved in this research concern all of us: rare diseases, cancers, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, cardiovascular diseases or hearing or vision disorders. This research is an opportunity, not only for the patients of today and tomorrow, but, overall, for the whole of our society – and to combine increased longevity and better health. So, what is the bill doing to encourage research, better organize it and better frame it? First, it aims to free up research by introducing a distinction between the legal regimes of embryonic research protocols on the one hand, and stem cells on the other. Although the embryo does not have legal personality, it is not considered merely an experimental material and the ethical issues that arise are simply not the same as those related to stem cell research. Research on the embryo remains governed by a legal authorisation regime and by the principles and prohibitions laid down in the Civil Code and the Public Health Code. They are, moreover, explicitly distinct from research on embryos intended to be implanted and to be born, which are part of research involving the human person – RIPH. Stem cell research, whether embryonic or induced pluripotent, is now part of a reporting regime. These cells are not embryos and are not intended to become embryos. It is therefore logical to include them in different management schemes. The bill also clarifies research on so-called transgenic or chimeral embryos. The major prohibitions are obviously maintained: prohibition on the creation of an embryo for research purposes; prohibition of changes in genetic characteristics likely to affect offspring; prohibition on the modification of a human embryo by the addition of cells from another species. [[Applause on many benches of MODEM and LaREM groups]] Through these different developments, the bill encourages and supports cutting-edge research, while ensuring that our fundamental ethical principles are respected. The text that we are starting to review takes into account the progress of science, enables it to be achieved for the benefit of patients' health – and the crisis that we are going through cruelly reminds us of the importance of health innovation – while strongly reaffirming the ethics that guide our society and define the framework of possible and desirable. I welcome this balance to which our work, and that of the Senate, have contributed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u162	Mrs Laëtitia Romeiro Dias, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u163	Like our colleagues before me, I would like to welcome the progress we are preparing, I hope, to confirm at second reading: access to a medical technique such as the LDC for all women regardless of their sexual orientation or marital status; opening up access to origins within the framework of the LDC, a subject that has caused so much pain for too long, pain that finally has a chance to be soothed by our choices; progress in the care of intersex children; but also the possibility of keeping gametes for men and women; Finally, the development of the framework for embryo and stem cell research. For the articles that concern me, namely, sections 29 A to 34, the special commission has reviewed several of the amendments proposed by the Senate. I will mention from the outset, and out of courtesy, the measure that seems to be a consensus in the House and in the Senate, namely, the narrowing of the period of review of the law to five years, in order to better adapt to the rhythm of science.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u165	With respect to section 29, the Special Commission has amended the composition of the National Ethics Advisory Committee, the CCNE, to include six representatives of patient associations and users of the health care system. We looked for the right wording at first reading, we found it in second reading. This balance must reinforce the doctrine that we have been pursuing since the beginning of the mandate: putting the patient back at the heart of the health system. With regard to Article 30, on the Agency for Biomedicine, the committee has come back to the missions and the organisation we wanted, together, at first reading, and has re-established the Agency's information mission on neuroscience, which I welcome. In addition, the Special Committee confirmed the first reading choices on the expansion of the Agency's tasks relating to the establishment of rules for the allocation of gametes and embryos. The aim is to harmonise the practices of the centres for the study and conservation of eggs and human semen, the CECOS, throughout the national territory. Finally, I come to section 29A, which created a parliamentary delegation to bioethics – an idea that I had defended before you and with your support – and which the Senate simply removed. I take note of this decision and regret it. This was perhaps one of the measures that had achieved the widest consensus on all the benches. Given the legal risk posed by the introduction of a delegation to the National Assembly alone in the 1958 Order, it does not seem appropriate to re-establish Article 29a in its original wording. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] However, I remain convinced, as I believe, of the value of a permanent structure devoted to bioethics. We need to have a permanent watch, to conduct continuous reflection on issues related to bioethics, to encourage parliamentary ownership of these sometimes complex issues, to increase their expertise in this area, and to monitor the implementation of the law. I will therefore present to you the arrangements for exercising these functions during the examination of Article 29a, in order to respond to the wishes expressed in a large majority at first reading, both in special committees and in sittings. The Assembly will have its delegation, perhaps in a different form, on the basis of its rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u166	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u167	Human weaknesses are many that make novelists or filmmakers happy – minor weaknesses that make us choose ease, to heavy weaknesses that lead to culpable betrayals. The legislator's task, if not to avoid them, would be presumptuous, at least to make them harmless or to make them acceptable. Being aware of our weaknesses pushes us to imagine and appropriate limits to progress. That is the purpose of bioethical laws. But above all, it is not a matter of limiting only; It is also a matter of opening up, hoping, progressing: narrow path, demanding path, path that we have taken together with seriousness and a lot of work. I am grateful to you, colleagues, for having done this hard work with honesty and respect. The rapporteurs – and I wish Jean-François Eliaou a speedy recovery which we hope will be back at the end of the week – have presented the essential provisions to you, and I thank them for them, as I thank them very much for their hard and patient work: it has allowed us to step by step in listening and respecting. The administrators have also contributed to the quality of our work, and I also thank them very warmly. Between the "bio" of biological knowledge and the "ethos" of human values, the legislator had to draw up texts sufficiently precise to exercise medicine and research safely while evolving within an ethical framework, accepted by the greatest number, while at the same time encountering an evolution of scientific techniques not following the pace of legislative revisions. The review we are looking at today leads us to make excessively difficult decisions, guided not only by concrete and scientific data, but also by meetings, discussions, our respective experiences, our education, all things that forge our intimate conviction. This one could become a mortiferous pitfall, but it can also serve as a compass if it is illuminated with the ethics that are so dear to us. There is only progress in balance, and we have worked towards that balance. Bioethics was born out of indignation at abuses or novelties experienced as transgressions. After the Second World War, trials in death camps have been stifling, research progress has been rapid and biomedical research has increased. Then, in line with 1968, the cost-effectiveness requirements of laboratories questioned the relationship between bioethical requirements and the freedom of researchers. Later, questions focused on how to reconcile the principles of the Declaration of Human Rights with medical research, particularly in its practical applications. Finally, more recently, legislators have tried to make these principles more concrete in order to standardize scientific practice. This is the object of the bioethical laws told to the French. These are structured by three main principles: first, dignity – the primacy of the human person, respect for the human being from the beginning of his life, lack of the heritage character of the human body, inviolability and integrity of the human species – and, second, solidarity – in particular, that manifested by compulsory health insurance and equal access to care – and finally freedom – which aims to preserve the private part of life, thus the autonomy of the individual in his choices. These principles guide our bioethical laws and, of course, have guided our discussions for this multi-faceted review, whether they concern advances in genetics, developments in the field of artificial intelligence applied to health and developments in the field of neuroscience, or concerns related to social aspirations, with issues such as the relaxation of the current legal framework for access to the LDC for couples of women and single women, the possibility of taking and retaining its oocytes or the opening of new rights with access to the identity of the gamete donor for children born to LDCs with third-party donors. The aim was also to strengthen and support solidarity in the context of the donation of tissue organs and cells and to continue to improve the quality and safety of bioethics practices. Bioethics requires broad and collective reflection. It makes indispensable the doubt that must be confronted with our certainties, without ever forgetting the human behind the technological prowess and the strength of desire. It is a question of creating a bridge between research, medicine and society. The increase in the possibilities that science offers us encourages everyone to question what they think is acceptable. That is why the question of the world we want to have for tomorrow is fundamental to bioethics. It is therefore very important to have a plurality of views on the world to decide, together, what we think is right. Revising the laws of bioethics is a sign of the great vitality of a democracy: one must be sure of the quality of the democratic debate in order to embark periodically on a project of which one knows that it will raise passions and emotion. It is a difficult, enriching and delicate exercise, which requires a great deal of confidence to organize sometimes heated but always rich debates, appeasement to discuss without invectiveness and respect to admit the expression of opposing opinions. It also takes a great deal of humility to agree to see our points of view discussed or, at times, to wave over certainties acquired from a long time, the fruits of an education, of a experience, of experiences essentially based on feelings, convictions, feelings and, finally, rather little on reasonable and scientific certaintys. In fact, it is rather vertiginous to revise a law that will be binding on all French people, with the help, but not only, of his personal experience. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] With modesty and humility, but also with great determination, colleagues, we will therefore legislate on bioethics because it is our duty, but also and above all our responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u168	I have received from Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor, Mrs Ménard, for a period of not more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u169	"Man's hobby is only a perpetual and universal demolition undertaking. Chastisement or simple observation, these few words question at a time when some of us would like to make believe that the LDC for all would be the marker of the "after world", a world in which man, driven by his ambitions alone, would be almighty, where the natural laws that were thought to be eternal would be ringarded and rejected, a world in which the deprivation of a father, organized within the walls of this House, would be seen as progress, a world in which no parliamentary group has tabled a motion of rejection to oppose such monstrosity. As if this collapse of the very idea of a family – conducive to the development of a child – had become a fatality, not to say a non-subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u170	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u171	It must be acknowledged that we are gathered here at the end of the special session to discuss an equally extraordinary text. Not because he brings something to our society, but because he will give life to voluntarily programmed children without a father – without a father!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u172	But happy children!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u173	Extraordinary, it is also because it affects not only the intimate of the adult in his/her sexuality and ability or inability to generate, but also the fragility of the child in his/her relationship with his/her parents and his/her vital need to build up himself/herself in the face of otherness, a man and a woman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u174	[[Smile]] You question the dogma of the immaculate design!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u175	All of us should be seized by this text, which commits even those who will abstain from voting in favour or against. Why? Because he will leave an indelible trace in our society: that of the banishment of the fathers, of those against whom we have risen or with whom we have grown up, of imperfect fathers, but who have existed, of the fathers of flesh and bone. So let us not be mistaken: it is neither a text on tolerance, nor a text on living together, let alone a text on progress. In reality, what is being played here is a deep, anthropological rupture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u176	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u177	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u178	This text does not happen by chance. It is the result of a long sape work that has succeeded in making some of us believe that participating voluntarily in the destruction of the family, embodied by a father and a mother, was a source of development for the child. There is, moreover, a kind of malaise, a form of tetanus, in the face of this text. The ministers were brilliant at their absence from the special committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u179	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u180	Only 15% of the 577 Members tabled amendments at second reading. Some have done so to go further in the transgression by using the bill to open the doors to the GPA within a couple of women,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u181	She's right! It's the GPA Trojan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u182	[[Multiple benches exclamations]] ...to extend the research on embryos, to freeze its oocytes and give itself the illusion of eternal fertility, to create animal-human chimeras, to legalize the post-mortem LDC, the baby-drug, the transgenic embryo and I pass it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u183	All this doesn't grow up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u184	For others, it was a matter of remembering common sense: the one who sticks to the real, who is carnal, who does not hide behind the selfish desires of adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u185	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u186	It's still very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u187	[["We're here! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] This common sense is sadly lacking even before we begin this discussion, since, I would remind you, we are going to vote for a text in catini, in the middle of July, in scheduled legislative time, which makes us unable to defend all our amendments, all without the French being able to demonstrate. What a contempt! Confess it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, please let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u189	At first reading, the then Minister of Health, Agnès Buzyn, had just recalled Hans Jonas' words inviting us to humility in the preface of the principle of responsibility: "The permanently unleashed Prometheus, to which science confers forces never yet known and the economy its unbridled impulse, demands an ethic which, through freely agreed restraints, prevents man's power from becoming a curse for him. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, our greatest dignity must be to limit us, not out of fear, but by a healthy alliance between humility and audacity: humility, since we are inscribed in a history, in a descent, in a humanity; audacity, to erase us, adults, behind them, children. I ask a simple question in this motion of rejection: is that right? Is it fair to deprive, in the space of a vote, thousands of children of their father for generations to come?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u190	Stop it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u191	[[Applause on many benches in the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill and Mrs Valérie Six also applaud]] I appeal to your conscience. I appeal to your courage. Forget partisan strategies, think about the depth of the upheavals that such a law will bring and resist! Resist the ideologies of a handful, and dare answer this question in your soul and conscience: who am I to inflict this on a child?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u192	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u193	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Government is against the motion to reject. Mrs Ménard, it is also said that humility is above all about listening. We are gathered to listen to each other by avoiding saying words such as "monstrosity", which can hurt and hurt. Every word you say may concern families who hear your words and sometimes suffer from them, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u194	[[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, the floor is for Mrs Aurore Bergé.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u195	I intended to say in the general debate how the Members of the Group of the European People's Party hoped that our debates in the House would remain calm, calm and respectful. Our group will stand by this attitude; However, I doubt the serenity of our debates when I hear, at the time of the motion for rejection, that we are working for a demolition enterprise. We have been working, for several years, in the sight and knowledge of all, not in catini, in accordance with a commitment made to the French by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u196	It wasn't in his profession of faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u197	We made this commitment in the parliamentary elections, and we want to respect it. All this is perfectly transparent: bioethics general statements have taken place, the National Ethics Advisory Committee has delivered an opinion, and the special committee of our assembly has been working on the subject for more than a year. You would know, Madame Ménard, if you had participated in her work at first reading – you were not there, but we missed neither a minute nor a second.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u198	You were the one talking about raising the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u199	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. In substance, the majority is proud to have kept a calendar that allows thousands of women who, for some, no longer have time to wait, to create the families they deserve. We are committed to this timetable and, for these women, we consider it urgent to take action. It is our responsibility as legislator to enable them to create a family, and we are proud to defend and vote, tomorrow, the LDC for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u200	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u201	[[Applause on the benches of MODEM groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Our assembly has already done important work in reviewing the text. The periodic review by Parliament of bioethics laws, preceded by broad consultations with society, is a French specificity of which we can be proud. The debate, which has already begun largely, continues this week in the Assembly and will continue in the fall in the Senate. If we can collectively regret that this second reading comes so late in the public sitting, we can only be satisfied that this text is advancing our rule of law, in order to respond to the current societal and scientific challenges, while ensuring that the legislative framework remains inclusive and protective. In other words, the status quo is not appropriate and the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u202	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u203	[[Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] Mrs Ménard, I do not believe that the LDC is a mark of the world: it is a reality of today's world. As legislators, we therefore have an obligation to address this issue. Defending a motion of prior rejection means that there is no point in discussing the issue: we cannot understand this approach. Not even to mention your voluntary caricatural remarks – I know that when you want to, your analyses can be much finer – the Socialist and related group rejects this motion of rejection beforehand and will therefore not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u204	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u205	The word "respect" has been spoken on several occasions this evening, both by the members of the Government present and by a number of colleagues. It must be the thread of debate for each and every one of us. In this way, Ms. Ménard must be given the right to defend a motion of rejection in advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u206	That's right, she's got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u207	She has the right to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u208	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] The majority is the majority; it will have the text adopted, but it can recognize that there is a problem of timing and method. We are in a special session. There were other priorities than this very sensitive text, of which you know it is a debate because it affects the intimate, the conception of life, the family, the relationship between science and reason, between science and beliefs, and the desire to transgress a number of human impossibility. You know that these debates should not cause fractures in society. By placing this text on the agenda of our assembly from 27 July, while a large part of our citizens are on holiday...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u209	We're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u210	We too are here, but many of our fellow citizens are on holiday and, even when they are not, they are mainly wondering about their future in the economic crisis following the ongoing health crisis. It is in these circumstances that you take responsibility for maintaining the fractures that I was talking about. [[Applause on many benches in the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, Mrs Agnes Thill and Mrs Blandine Brocard also applaud]] Freedom of vote is complete within the IDU and independent group, as I imagine, within all the political groups. So each one will determine himself as he wishes. As far as I am concerned, I will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u211	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u212	I want to say in a few words why I will not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand. We debated at length, at first reading, in a special committee, and, despite sometimes divergent views, we have always ensured that we respect each other, listen to each other and do not use hurtful words. I regret that many families were injured in defending the motion for rejection. I am thinking of all those women who have been waiting for this bill to pass for more than a year to complete their parenting project, and of all those families who have to travel abroad to do so. I think it is time and even urgent for the legislator to take on his responsibilities and to legislate to give them the rights that the bill entails. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] There is now a real break in equality between women and couples who can go abroad and those who cannot. Our assembly must therefore ask itself questions. Respect and dignity must remain the key words, but we must conduct some difficult debates – the ministers have mentioned a number of points on which we will discuss. For my part, I want to discuss it. I know we will have differences, but it is time to move forward in peace. The French are waiting for our assembly to debate calmly and they are counting on the deputies to vote in their soul and conscience. That is why I will not vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u213	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u214	I said at first reading: you have to pay attention to the word you use, because they can hurt. Madame Ménard, a heterosexual couple can raise a child without a father who, at the age of twenty-five, will be perfectly fulfilled; I can introduce you personally. Let us be careful, this whole week, about the vocabulary we use not to offend those who follow our debates – know that, despite what is sometimes said, they are very followed. [[Smile on many benches]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] I do not often make this kind of clarification and do not intend to abuse it, but the people who follow our debates who are not familiar with the functioning of the National Assembly, I would like to point out that unlike the ministers, who were not necessarily in office at the time of the first reading, the rapporteurs – and especially the rapporteurs – have remained the same. Whether we agree with the text or not, it must be recognised that since the first reading they have done a lot of work on it. We should therefore avoid making people who follow our debates believe that the rapporteurs have been appointed because we do not know who they are! I am making this clarification about my speaking time because these allusions are abject and should cease. Please note, therefore, that, unlike some ministers, the rapporteurs were already in office at the time of the first reading of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u215	Thank you for that clarification, Mrs. Fiat. Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u216	The Acting Together Group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. [[Michèle de Vaucouleurs applauds]] The bioethics bill deals with a topic of equal importance only in terms of technicality. A great deal of work has been done, under the leadership of the Chairman of the Special Commission, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, by the rapporteurs and all the Commissioners. More than a year has passed since the work began. Today, therefore, it is not a question of turning the bill into a catimini: it is not the first text to be voted on in the middle of the summer, and if we oppose it as a matter of principle, we may as well delete the special sessions! A great deal of work has been done by all of the colleagues and the debate, expected by the families and more broadly by the French, cannot be caught up. Indeed, the LDC is not the alpha and omega of this bill which also deals with the donation of blood – open to all, without discrimination – and organ donation, now possible regardless of the donor's situation, if he consents to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u217	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u218	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] Without suspense, the GDR Group will reject the motion to reject it beforehand. I would like to join colleagues in stressing the extent to which our debates, although often heated and confrontational, have taken place in mutual respect, but above all – because it is much more important – with respect for all our fellow citizens. They prove that parliamentary deliberation can be of high quality. May their wealth make think those who, sometimes, are engulfed in salient presidentialism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u219	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u220	We know how much this text is expected today. The extension of the right to the LDC – because it is an extension rather than the creation of a new right – is expected by many women and families, but also by professionals, scientists, doctors, nurses and nurses. Many feared that this text would be pushed back to the Greek calends, sacrificed on the altar of the crisis. We are glad that this was not the case, even if, let us say, I would have preferred this second reading to take place two or three weeks earlier. The concern that the deferred bill was being examined was all the more acute because, with the crisis, many parental projects had to be pushed back as a result of the closure of the borders. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Maxime Minot also applauds]] In the meantime, this text is also because it corresponds to a reality that has existed for decades; It is our obligation to protect whole children and families. It is with pride and responsibility that we approach the examination at second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u221	In the general debate, Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u222	Called to vote at second reading on the bioethics bill, which has been the subject of many consultations since January 2018, we will measure how much our world, in a few years, has changed profoundly, generating hope and concern. While the law does not restrict ethical thinking, the pandemic reminds us that we need to think about the world and face many challenges based on principles of justice, fairness and solidarity – solidarity that the French demonstrated during confinement. At a time when we must come together and find the path of trust, the bioethics law strengthens our conviction that every law must take root in these very principles. According to the philosopher Hans Jonas, creating a bridge between ethics and politics means ensuring the "responsibility of the human future". We cannot for a long time ignore the realities of our society: one quarter of families are single parents, 2000 to 3,000 women cross the border, if they have the means, for what we refuse them. The opening to all, without discrimination, of medical assistance to procreation, taken over by the health insurance, is a response to a deep desire to create a family, to a parental project, a love project. In this desire, we must also discern, in a hollow, the suffering connected with it; but it cannot be the expression of a right to a child comparable to the purchase of the last household robot. While the societal issues addressed in this law ask us about the definition of the family, facing the realities of today, other important issues require legal guidance and question us about the notion of progress, the technically possible and the ethically desirable in order to avoid any shift towards eugenics. Let us recall here our total opposition to the commodification of women's bodies and to the exploitation of poverty, and our attachment to the gift – selfless, even self-telic. Today, the scope of possibilities, in terms of gene therapy for example, opens up therapeutic prospects that have not yet been hoped for: advances in the treatment of lung cancers, melanomas, myelomas. That is why the research teams, which are part of a medical purpose, expect our law to guide and accompany these new research potentials. Submitting embryonic stem cells to a simple declaration when research on the supernumerary embryo – not being the subject of a parental project –, with consent, remains subject to authorisation, lifting the ban on the creation of transgenic embryos for research purposes, opening the way for gene therapy in particular, is to give the possibility to French research to keep the world's first place. As the rapporteur has pointed out, the law also lays down prohibitions in order to avoid any drift: prohibition of reproductive cloning, prohibition of the creation of an embryo de novo for research purposes, in compliance with the Oviedo Convention which we have signed. Containment has also taught us how digital has gained an indispensable place in the field of health, opening up to a predictive, personalized, participatory, preventive medicine, where the use of algorithms requires information and free and informed consent of the patient. It has also been, as I recalled, rich in solidarity, that we find in the law that will bring about a positive change in organ donations and blood donations. At the time of the vote, let us also have in mind opinion No. 102 of the National Ethics Advisory Committee – CCNE – which reminds us: "A society incapable of recognizing the dignity and suffering of the person, child, adolescent or adult, the most vulnerable and the most deprived, and which removes it from the community because of its extreme vulnerability, is a society that loses its humanity. » Today, ethics is challenged by the international dimension and the globalization of practices; revising the law every five years, in connection with the acceleration of knowledge, must not lead us to avoid a future debate on the interest of a common European ethic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, as at first reading, the La République en marche group will vote in favour of the bioethics bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u223	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u224	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We are coming to a new and important stage in the review of the proposed revision of bioethics laws. Each member of the Republican Group will once again have absolute freedom to vote and will vote in conscience. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] That being recalled, we regret this imposed timetable: the text is being considered at the end of last week's special session, in the middle of the summer, so that our fellow citizens cannot mobilize or be informed of its new version, far worse than the previous one. We also deplore the manner in which the examination took place in a special commission, in a time forced, on a forced march, with the presence of the Government for a single article out of thirty. This allowed the text to overflow and the crossing of new red lines, as on the ROPA. In a context of deep-seated economic, social and security difficulties, which recent news has cruelly reminded us, is this not a way for the Government to make a diversion? In any case, it is wrong to meet the expectations of the French because, according to a recent poll, the inclusion of bioethics on the agenda is not part of their concerns and this bill deeply divides French society. We also regret that the Senate's amendments were swept one after the other, without any consensus being sought.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u225	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u226	This revision of bioethical laws, which is not limited to the least developed countries, so much so, claims to respond to advances in science and to changes in our society. But we have to ask ourselves: science is evolving, but is it still progressing? Is the technically possible always humanly desirable? Can we not fear the effects of artificial intelligence, predictive medicine, neuromodulation? Aren't we going to the increased man? Are genomics, sequencing, the molecular chisel CRISPR-Cas 9, and even today CRISPR-Cas 13, leading us to more ethics? The expansion of access to the LDC will create resource problems, starting with budgetary resources with access to social security reimbursement, which is currently subject to a therapeutic criterion. Is it for the health insurance to finance the creation of orphans of a father, orphans of a second parent? The vast majority of French people do not wish to do so. Do we measure the effects to come on the doctor's relationship, thus being diverted from his duty to treat? It will also pose a problem of biological resources, because we will face the lack of gametes, especially with the planned lifting of anonymity. How are you going to handle this shortage? By importing gametes from countries where donations are paid? The expansion of the LDC will generate tensions, weakening respect for the principle of freedom, and inevitably lead to market drift. Today, 96 per cent of LDCs are made with the couple's gametes, without major problems. As a result, reproductive medical assistance with third-party donors is very much in the minority. However, it raises persistent ethical questions, since it causes the ill-being of children wishing to access their origins. This project tries to avoid this by providing for the planned lifting of anonymity to the majority of the person who emerged from the donation. The boundless enlargement of the LDC with donor will have the consequences known: lack of biological link, lack of parenting, lack of parenting or shortage of gametes. Ethical thinking seems biased. There is a deliberate confusion between disparate objective realities: the LDC's slogan for all tends to mask the reality of a new LDC, which is quite different from the current one. Does your concern to respond to the desire of very minority women to have access to the LDC without a father justify removing the current LDC therapeutic criterion, the consent of the donor's spouse or the condition of a biological connection with at least one of the parents? In fact, you are also changing the deal for heterosexual couples, making it more difficult for them to access the LDC with third-party donors tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u227	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u228	Does your concern to respond to the desire of very minority women, to access the Fatherless LDC, justify to upset filiation, to create artificial gametes, transgenic or chimeral embryos? Will there no longer be any limit to the omnipotence of the will of adults? Is our society no longer able to respond negatively to requests for access to technology, if these are not humanly desirable? Now, with the proposed enlargement and the possibility of double donation, there may no longer be any biological link. Aren't we going to amplify the ill-being of children in search of their origins? Are the future effects on families of removing the spouse's consent for the donation of gametes measured? Do we measure the effects on these children? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, The studies cited are all partisan and without sufficient scientific basis. However, the child and his or her best interests should be at the centre of the concerns of this law. Unfortunately, we're far from it. What risks do we take for future generations? So we're going to create children without a father, who won't have a second parent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u229	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u230	Is this the child's interest? 82 per cent of the French are hostile to it. Don't we create new inequalities between children? Aren't we hurting children? Isn't society going to create ab initio vulnerabilities? We don't order children: they're not good, they're good, they're good, they're good. Why did you also put the brakes on the GPA by the Senate? Admittedly, pregnancy for others remains, for the time being, prohibited in France. At the same time, however, the Government and the majority do not really want to deter our fellow citizens from renting the body of women abroad. Some of you might even wish to facilitate their return. What hypocrisy! In essence, Mr. Minister of Health, won't you soon be in favour of a GPA, which some here dare to call ethical, when our society will give up opposing it? Mr. Keeper of the Seals, are you really going to do everything possible to ensure that in the future there are no children conceived by GPA abroad for French people?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u231	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u232	These are important issues. Moreover, the artificialization of these reproductions puts us at great risk, such as the right to the perfect child. Two devices adopted in special committee want to lead us there: the IPR-A, which amounts to sorting embryos according to their genome,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u233	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u234	...and the enlargement of prenatal diagnosis. Can you imagine the eugenic drift? The pressure of some laboratories is strong because the interests are enormous even if the reliability of these devices is weak and their scientific results challenged. But one of their unconfessed motivations is the systematic rejection of certain handicaps such as Down syndrome 21. We're talking about an inclusive society, we're even going to visit a Café Joyeux. At the same time, we would allow a sorting of the unborn children... Stop the fakes! In bioethics too, a little consistency would not hurt. What is the signal given to persons with disabilities and their parents?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u235	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u236	Where's the most vulnerable? The cost of these examinations is very high. Rather, let us keep these resources for research to cure these diseases and infertility. What consideration is also given to a child who is designed to become a baby medicine? Transhumanistic drift is also present in this text: creation of artificial gametes from IPS cells; creation of transgenic embryos – for the time being – only for research purposes; creation of chemeric embryos with the insertion of human embryonic stem cells into an animal embryo that is inserted into the female. These manipulations transgress the boundary between species. Is it annoyance to destroy embryos to do research? If not, why always relax the steps until they are reduced to a simple declaration as your project provides? Aren't embryos becoming beings? Hasn't each of us been an embryo? The integrity of the human embryo should be respected. The pressure of the reproductive trades should not lead us to overcome all these ethical barriers. The end does not justify the means. Respect for human nature, human ecology and the precautionary principle should take precedence. Why wouldn't these principles valid for our planet be valid for man? Ecology, to which the French attach increasing importance, should respect the nature and dignity of man from his conception. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very concerned about the consequences of the ethical transgressions contained in this draft. With a President of the Republic and an above-ground majority, are you going to make humans out of the ground by chimerism or transgenesis until you make them believe in a new world where the human would be perfect through prior sorting? I don't want this new, deeply inhuman world. Like the vast majority of French, I am against this text which means the end of bioethics to French. [[Applause on many benches of the group The Republicans. – Mrs Blandine Brocard, Mrs Valérie Six and Mrs Agnes Thill also applaud]] Let us hope that our debates, in a respectful manner, will enable us to straighten the bar by promoting the ethics of vulnerability, the best interests of the child and the unconditional respect of the person. Then, but only then, we can be proud of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u237	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-27-E1019.u238	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the second reading of the bioethics bill. The meeting is adjourned.
