ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u1	The next item is the discussion, after the accelerated procedure has begun, of the draft law on the programming of research for the years 2021 to 2030 and containing various provisions relating to research and higher education (No 3234, 3339 corrected).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u2	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u3	I have the honour to introduce the research programming bill for the years 2021 to 2030. Opportunities to speak about science in Parliament are not so frequent: it has been fourteen years since any comparable text was debated by national representation. The revision of bioethics laws has recently offered us the possibility, but from a very particular perspective: that of the concordance between the advances of research and the expectations of society. To come to Parliament to talk about research is, in essence, to return to the very essence of democracy. What is the basis for the vitality of public debate and the legitimacy of collective deliberation, if not the sharing of a common foundation of knowledge and the exercise of reason? Science is rarely debated for itself. However, all the discussions that you conduct each week take place in a hemicycle that is reminiscent of an academic amphitheatre, under the eyes of the learned community of Raphael's School of Athens, recently restored and resettled on the wall behind me, which invites us to seek the truth. Beyond the eminent scientists she camps, this reproduction of the Gobelins tells us something important and unalterable about what a scientific community is. It shows what still makes its strength and vitality: a blend of disciplines and personalities; intertwined times of solitary reflection, collective work, teaching young generations and peer-to-peer controversies; a veritable agora at the service of the city. The Republic has made a special connection with its scientists. Our higher education and research community is proud, and for this reason: if our country is still able to advance the knowledge front in all fields, it is above all because of their unwavering commitment, their passion for knowledge and their sense of public service. This intimate functioning of research, this science being done, we saw it at work during the most acute phase of the health crisis triggered by the covid -19 epidemic. Everywhere in France, all those who support research have mobilized. I am naturally thinking of researchers from the REACTIng consortium, those from the Institut Pasteur, who have sequenced the genome of the virus in record time, those from INRIA – the National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Automation – who have developed StopCovid, but also to the hundreds of teams mobilized through the ANR – the National Research Agency – throughout the country, in our universities and national organizations. I solemnly wish to pay tribute to them before you. With them, I would like to thank all those who, for several months, have been committed to ensuring the continuity of the public service of higher education and research, by leading a university re-entry marked by the health crisis. Their commitment is decisive, because, at this very moment, in the amphitheatres, the laboratories, the works rooms run and the libraries, the emergence of new generations of scientists, who will make our country's future in the coming decades, is being played out. Yet, despite the commitment of our scientists, despite our history, despite our robust scientific institutions, our research is stifling. Twenty years ago, the Lisbon Strategy set the deadline for 2010 to reach 3% of GDP dedicated to research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u4	It's far from reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u5	But the account is not there. In universities, in organizations, at the heart of laboratories, the observation is known and shared: we can talk about a lost decade. Behind the reforms of apparatus and structures, what has been happening over the last twenty years in France is the continuous decrease in the number of doctoral enrolments, the dwindling of recruitments, the decline in attractiveness of all the professions of public research. Nevertheless, France remains a great scientific nation, thanks to the legacy of the courageous choices that have been made, from the creation of the CNRS – the Centre national de la recherche scientifique – to the Chevènement law, but also and above all thanks to the commitment of the women and men who have been able to make our research live despite the drying up of funding and the lack of recognition for their work. Of course, there have been attempts to reverse the trend, such as the Goulard law and the national research strategy, which have failed both on the dyke of realities. In 2010, funding for public research in France, within the programming scope of programmes 150, 172 and 193, amounted to EUR 11.42 billion; In 2016, they were 11.52 billion, almost a decade of stagnation, in a changing scientific world that did not wait for us. The weariness and sometimes the anger expressed by certain fringes of our scientific community find there their deep roots. She feels misunderstood or even abandoned. There have been many white papers, recruitment plans and structural reforms, but not enough investments, resources and visibility; There has been too little time for research and too few posts, while the administrative burden is always greater. From now on, we can no longer retreat; We're back to the wall. Despite the emerging economic and social crisis, guaranteeing the future of our country, its prosperity as well as its promise of republican emancipation requires an unprecedented effort by us to give our research back the levers to meet the scientific challenges of our time and the future. In the face of countries that have been able, in recent years, to complete the choices that now allow them to pursue an ambitious research policy at the international level, we must assert ourselves and maintain our position. By nature, knowledge has no boundaries, research is international and cosmopolitan. Yet there is no great country without great research, no prosperous economy without dynamic research. I will go even further: at a time of global health risk, artificial intelligence and quantum – to name but a few – there is no sovereign country without research at the best international level. The President of the Republic has decided to take up this challenge with arms. Since 2017, the Government has closed the accounts of the past: one billion euros of debt owed to ESA, the European Space Agency, has been repaid; we gave the ANR the means to enable it to get out of the marasm in which it had been left; we have launched a constant policy of strengthening the capacity of laboratories; Above all, we have worked to create new levers to mobilize and better fund our research, be it priority research programs or presidential plans – I am thinking particularly of the national plan for AI – artificial intelligence – announced in April 2018 by the President of the Republic. It is now a matter for national representation to begin a new chapter. The cycle of impoverishment of research is behind us. The President of the Republic announced this on 19 March, the Government has made the choice to commit an additional €25 billion over the next ten years to restore our scientific sovereignty. In 2030, the annual budget for research will be 20% higher than 2020, or €5 billion consolidated. What is happening through the programming of the research funding that I have the honour to present to you is to chart the prospects for the next decade and, above all, to give organizations and universities new means and tools to bring out the next generations of scientists that our country needs. This programming is first and foremost the product of broad consultation. For more than three years, I have been in their institutions and laboratories to meet the women and men who are doing the research in our country. Three working groups have been set up, in which some of you have been actively involved. A consultation resulted in nearly 1,000 contributions from more than half of the country's laboratories. Unpublished, seventeen bodies were consulted before the bill was presented to the Council of Ministers, all of which gave their opinions. Above all, this text is the one that was adopted by CNESER – the National Council for Higher Education and Research – on June 19th: this is the second bill ever passed by this body after that on the orientation and success of students. What I have learned is that the state has a duty of truth vis-à-vis the scientific community. My department's shelves are full of ideal programming that has become more free from the realities as our research is going through a decade of fiscal drought. EESC opinions – the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – are also prominent. My commitment is to propose real programming, sustainable, achievable and realistic programming, which we are going to set the stage for so that it can flourish beyond institutional and political time. We can afford it, I am all the more convinced of it after the debates in committee: political consensus is there, we are all in favour of giving back resources to our researchers, all aware of this need. It is therefore up to us to put in place the framework that will allow us, over the next few years, to reaffirm the central place played by research in our country. By submitting the research programming bill to national representation, the Government proposes to our country, in essence, to make a choice: that of anticipation rather than reaction; that of clairvoyance against the temptation of ease; that of mastering our destiny rather than subjecting ourselves to the pressure of current events or other nations. To make this choice is to strengthen the robustness of our democracy by helping it to keep its promises: a future for our youth; a more inclusive, independent and ecological society for our citizens. In the service of this ambition, the programming of this bill is based on four pillars: reinvesting heavily in our public research to meet the major scientific challenges facing us at the knowledge border; restore the attractiveness of scientific professions; make its place in science in our society; Simplify the lives of all those who make science live in our country. First pillar: massive and unprecedented means to advance the knowledge front in all directions. It was at the crossroads of zoology and archaeology that we understood the mechanisms of spreading the black plague at the end of the Middle Ages. It is because we have discovered by chance micro-organisms living in geysers that we may be able to make a breakthrough tomorrow in the face of certain rare diseases. The complexity of the climate issue implies involving all disciplines in a holistic approach. In this regard, the tools and methods of the social sciences and humanities, in particular, are indispensable. Research is not a miracle solution that would only be activated on an ad hoc basis, in an emergency; It is a work of patience and long-term, a continuous and comprehensive process of which we must never break the thread, under penalty of being, some day or another, very deprived to ensure our future. Indeed, no one can predict what is in store for us, nor where the unexpected will arise. Serendipity is at the heart of the scientific approach: knowledge must be recognized where it is rather than where it is thought to be found. The next crisis we will have to go through is an unknown one. If we want to give ourselves every chance to understand and overcome it, we must cultivate the whole field of knowledge, without stalemate, to draw from it, in due course, the most relevant solutions to the most unexpected questions. Making science a pillar of our democracy and an engine of our society is to give research a great responsibility. If our scientists, heirs of a long tradition of excellence, have the capacity to assume it, they cannot afford it. The ambition of programming is therefore clear: it is above all a text of means, with an additional €25 billion to reach the 3% of GDP target for research in 2030, the largest investment in science since the late 1950s. This programming will guarantee the freedom of action of our researchers. The Government has, moreover, chosen free, non-flashed, cross-cutting programming, because it is in the cross-section of disciplines that we will find the answers to the challenges of the coming years. I will give one example: in the area of health, it is not only a question of strengthening the capacity of researchers in medicine and biology, but also of adopting a comprehensive approach, for which all aspects of our research must be mobilized, from the humanities and social sciences to the technological sciences. Ensuring interdisciplinarity requires strengthening or even creating a new link within research teams and putting an end to false oppositions. In 2006, this House was talking about ending the opposition between basic and applied research. Today, the challenge is to end the barren opposition between call-for-project funding and core funding. Our research does not suffer from an excessive call for projects, but from a lack of general funding. The National Research Agency ANR will play a central role in the coming years – this is the whole purpose of Article 12 of this text – because there is no large scientific country without a large research agency. The objectives are very clear: to increase the success rate of calls for projects to 30%, and the rate of the additional free-to-use share, called "precipit", to 40%. Behind these rates, it is a question of providing all teams whose projects are scientifically robust with real access to funding, including through calls for white projects, open to all disciplines. It is also a question of taking better account of the needs of everyone, those of the very basic sciences as well as of the humanities and social sciences. With the new allocation rule on the additional share, the programming will truly reward all those who participate in the success of a team awarded a call for projects, namely the entire laboratory and the entire community of its establishment. The profound transformation of the National Research Agency planned under this programme will enable each university to see its basic resources strengthened globally, while at the same time having the levers to build its signature on research policy. At the end of the period covered by the draft law, more than €450 million of additional core funding will be redistributed to laboratories, thanks to this rethought, without taking into account the rearming of the resources of the bodies and universities through the implementation of the contracts of objectives and means. As of next year, there will be a 10% increase in the recurrent laboratory budget, which will be increased to 25% by 2023. It is not a question of concentrating resources in a few flagship institutions or for the benefit of a few researchers whose work is in the air of time, but rather of allowing each and every territory to build its way towards a policy of research radiating at the best world level. The bill, I have already had the opportunity to say, does not undertake structural reform. It is a text drawn up as close as possible to the community, for the community. The second pillar of the programming thus has as its ambition a new dimension in the attractiveness of scientific careers, with the priority of better valuing staff and their careers. Our country does not recognize their talents and what we owe them. Remuneration is not a trivial matter; It says a lot of the priorities of the nation. However, the salaries paid by research staff are not commensurate with the work provided or with the ability to encourage younger generations to take over. Programming will open the largest plan to upgrade the treatment of research staff in several decades. Over €2.5 billion will be spent over the next seven years. Seven cumulative tranches of €92 million each year – or 644 million per year in 2027 – are planned in order to put an end to the compensatory differences between the bodies of the ministry, and then to start a convergence phase that will finally allow the personnel who make the search live to be treated with the same consideration as the other agents of the state by 2030. Social dialogue is at the heart of this process. On 31 August, I presented to the trade union organisations a draft agreement on the prospects opened up by career and remuneration programming. At the negotiating table, we are making an unprecedented effort to raise the profile of all the staff involved in research in France. Behind this movement for more justice and recognition in remuneration, the stakes are very concrete: in 2021, the treatment of lecturers will be upgraded by almost 1000 euros; the average number of research fellows of 1300 euros. I made a commitment: there will be no career reversal; EUR 26 million will be spent on increasing the remuneration of all those who, in recent years, have been integrated into the bodies of research officers and lecturers. If we want to ensure the future of our research, we need to send a very clear and strong signal to the new generations, who are reluctant to choose a scientific career. Research programming is the first plan to restore all its letters of nobility to the third cycle. Convince a master's student to embark on a doctorate when this diploma leads to an uncertain future is difficult. Down from this leap into the unknown, the bill plans to secure the first steps in research, by increasing the number of doctoral contracts by 20%, systematizing and increasing their funding by 30%; creating a public and private post-doctoral contract to facilitate the transition to a permanent position. The number of CIFRE grants – an industrial research training agreement – will be increased by 50%. Of course, secondary school teachers pursuing a doctoral project will not have to choose between their teaching service and a doctoral contract. For all others, we will work with local and regional authorities and associations, so that all those who wish, in all disciplines, can find a funding solution to accompany them throughout their third cycle. In the same vein, the entry into the careers of young researchers will be supported. Research staff and lecturers will no longer be recruited below two SMICs. They will receive an average of 10000 euros to start their work. In addition, their career prospects will be improved through fund-raising on promotion mechanisms in the bodies of research directors and university professors. At the same time, other recruitment channels may be proposed by institutions that wish to do so to attract different profiles, rich in atypical pathways or rare skills, and thus highly contested internationally. With the creation of the junior professors' chairs, we give our institutions the means to play on equal terms with the great scientific nations. I say again clearly: the chairs of junior professors will not replace the statutory jobs. They represent an additional route to access it; they will not narrow the horizon of some to widen that of others; They will open the field of possibilities for all. As a guarantee of this principle, I have decided, in consultation with the trade union organizations, that every recruitment to a junior professor's chair must be accompanied by at least a promotion of a lecturer in the body of university professors. Consolidating, diversifying and opening up research communities is another objective of the bill. In addition to the creation of junior faculty chairs, it plans to ensure the level of recruitment of faculty-researchers and researchers regardless of the needs of student demography, and to create nearly 5200 additional permanent jobs, including in the field of technical support for research. These additional positions are essential to compensate for the lack of engineers, technicians and administrative staff in our laboratories. Their know-how is also essential to the development of research projects, and we need to better value and preserve them. [[Laughs and comments on the FI benches]] The creation of the CDI de mission scientifique is part of this ambition. When a laboratory recruits a technician necessary for the success of a research project, it is often forced to separate before the end of the project because it is unable to renew its CSD; Everyone loses. By synchronising the duration of the project and the duration of the contract, the CDI de mission scientifique is part of a win-win strategy: laboratories will retain the skills they need and staff will be better protected from insecurity. Too often, I've seen these people leave their teams while they have gold in their hands; they will now enjoy all the guarantees of the CDI of public law and associated rights. I am not afraid to say this: the scientific mission CDI is an immense social progress. This new contract will change the lives of thousands of agents in the coming years. It is intended to be a concrete response to a concrete problem. In this way, it perfectly illustrates the spirit of the third pillar of the bill: facilitating the life of laboratories, in order to give a better breath to research. The research is based on two essential ingredients. The first is talent – I have explained to you what we plan to value and attract them. The second is time. However, laboratories are asphyxiated under the burden of administrative and legal constraints. Our researchers see the time dedicated to their work being reduced as the skin of grief. This programming therefore begins a vast simplification project, which is far beyond the legislative framework, in order to overcome with pragmatism the difficulties which affect the daily lives of our laboratories. This requires measures that appear to be very modest, such as the abolition of administrative authorisation prior to cumulation of activities. Behind the removal of this form, we are moving towards a less bureaucratic search, towards a more modern administration, at the service of academic missions. I am convinced that the great laws, those that really change things, are those whose ambitions apply to the smallest details of life on the ground. To restore time and freedom to research is also to introduce into the careers of teachers-researchers more breathing, more periods devoted exclusively to research, thanks to the increase in the number of leave for thematic conversion, the increase in the capacity of the Institut universitaire de France, or even delegations to the CNRS. To increase the time and visibility of researchers, it is necessary to adopt a single portal at the National Research Agency in order to refer all calls for projects, to synchronize their schedules, to harmonise their specifications, to simplify procedures, to give researchers the time taken to fill out forms and files in recent years, too often for too few results. This time, this budget, this visibility of research are as many ways that our country can look forward to the coming decades with confidence and enthusiasm. Other ministers have said this before me here: investment in research is not an investment like any other. It's our passport for the future and it's our best chance, because it's not about chance, it's about knowledge. It is no longer enough to call this conviction loud and clear. Parliament now has a tool to share this ambition of optimism with society as a whole and to translate it into the daily lives of our citizens. The bill will put research at the heart of our country's social, cultural and economic life. This ambition, which is the third axis I wanted to mention, is in fact the keystone of the text. Research, because it enlightens the world, is in itself a very strong societal commitment, which needs no other meaning or justification than the production of knowledge, provided, however, that this knowledge goes beyond the laboratory to circulate very widely in society. Open science, data sharing, training are privileged channels, but they alone are far from exhausting the full fecundity of research. Paths such as innovation, scientific, technical and industrial culture, or the involvement of citizens in research activities need to be taken further, because that is how science will penetrate our daily lives, fuel public debate and stimulate the growth of our businesses. More than ever, science and the scientific community must meet society, and society must claim its place with scientists. Everyone has everything to gain. In contact with citizens and the economic world, research gains new questions to identify, problems to solve, avenues to explore, reflexivity and a new look. In contact with public research, the company is gaining a more ambitious innovation culture, oriented towards breaking rather than improving the existing one. With a view to economic recovery and industrial renewal in our country, our companies need this renewed creativity and audacity. It is therefore essential that their relationships with public research change in scale over the next decade. This is why the bill plans to stimulate partnership research by doubling the funding of the ANR for industrial chairs, joint laboratories, Carnot institutes, and by increasing the number of CIFRE theses by 50%. In order to encourage companies to search campuses for the ingredients of their future success, we propose to label sites that have made their transfer offer more readable and reduce their contracting times. Conversely, in order to encourage researchers and teachers-researchers to start a business or to participate in its development, the text tends to facilitate mobility, establish a genuine doctoral contract in company and open an innovation path to the Institut universitaire de France. Similarly, dialogue and interaction between science and society must be intensified. What citizens gain from contact with research is tools to better think the world. It must be noted, however, that while science does have the status of common good, it is far from having acquired familiarity and found its place in all homes and minds. For this to change, it is essential that its body of knowledge be more accessible and that its method, based on experimentation and controversy, be better understood. In return, it is equally essential that it be more responsive to society and that it involve citizens more in its orientations. In order to promote this dual movement, the bill includes the promotion of participatory research, the acceleration of the dissemination of scientific culture, the development of outreach operations of the type "one class, one researcher" and the initiation of work for a better recognition of this mission in staff careers and research projects. This link between science and society is a vital artery of our democracy. We need science in sharing, because it is the common core from which we can come together, debate to understand the complexity of the world around us and decide by relying on facts rather than opinions, a rational approach rather than passional impulses. We have to do science to make society, we have to do science to block, as we have learned from the crisis we are going through. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] To debate, through this law of research programming that we want, is also to debate, in substance, the democracy that we want, and I know how committed you are to making it ever stronger, more open, more creative. I have no doubt that this requirement will set the course for the debates that are taking place today and will make it possible to draw up an ambitious law with confidence in research and inspiration for the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u6	Mrs Danièle Hérin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u7	"There is no great country without knowledge, research and strong higher education," said the President of the Republic in his speech on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the CNRS. The bill aims to end ten years of chronic underinvestment in research. Indeed, between 2006 and 2017, the share allocated to research remained constant, at 2.2% of GDP, even though the Lisbon strategy committed us to reach 3%. The aim of the bill is to enable France to maintain its position among innovative nations, by strengthening this strategic sector in the service of its independence and sovereignty. Thanks to him, finally, the women and men who do the research will have the means to work, will see their remuneration improved and the attractiveness of their careers strengthened. This text is a real law of progress for research itself, but also for the growth of enterprises and jobs. Finally, it will help to make research a guarantee of the preservation of the environment and health. The aim of the bill is to enable France to maintain its position among innovative nations, by strengthening this strategic sector in the service of its independence and sovereignty. Thanks to him, finally, the women and men who do the research will have the means to work, will see their remuneration improved and the attractiveness of their careers strengthened. This text is a real law of progress for research itself, but also for the growth of enterprises and jobs. Finally, it will help to make research a guarantee of the preservation of the environment and health. This bill addresses three main challenges: better funding public research through multi-year programming; strengthen the attractiveness of its trades through the upgrading of remuneration and the creation of new contracts; open up research to society. On the budget side, this bill echoes the recommendation we made, Patrick Hetzel – here –, Amélie de Montchalin and I, in 2018, at the end of a research funding assessment mission: we concluded that multi-year funding was needed to give visibility to researchers. This budget-programming bill therefore commits us over ten years, to take into account the long duration of the research. As the Minister has indicated, the fiscal trajectory foresees an increase in funding from $400 million to $600 million per year for ten years. In 2030, regardless of any other funding, the research budget will have increased by more than €5 billion. As a result of the health crisis, the considerable financial effort foreseen by this bill will be complemented, from the next two years, by the recovery plan and the fourth strand, of 3.2 billion, of the IAP – the investment programme for the future – to a total of 4.4 billion more for research in 2021 and 2022. The second challenge of the bill is to strengthen the attractiveness of all scientific professions. The previous laws on higher education and research, of 2006, 2007 and 2013, have mainly created legal structures: groups of institutions, the AERES – Agency for the Evaluation of Research and Higher Education – and others. These new structures, although necessary, have led to an increasing involvement of research teachers, researchers and their teams in administrative tasks. To meet this challenge, the bill values women and men who do research, by raising their salaries, improving their working conditions in laboratories, reducing their administrative duties and consolidating teams. First, to improve career development, junior faculty chairs are created to gain direct access, through a three- to six-year contract, to the faculty of universities or research directors. At the moment, I would like to point out that the average age of entry into the bodies of lecturers or research staff is 34 years, and the average age of entry into that of university professors is 45 years! These chairs will, I hope, help to reduce delays, especially when post-docs accumulate. They will speed up the beginnings of careers for some of the doctors, retain young talents who are tempted to pursue their careers abroad or in large companies, particularly in the field of computer science. The creation of a clear legal framework for the doctoral contract in private law and the post-doctoral contract will also help to secure the early stages of the careers of researchers and teachers-researchers. In addition, a better adaptation of human resources management tools is planned to adjust them to the current terms and conditions of research projects. It is in particular the meaning of the CDI of a scientific mission, which the Minister has also told us about, that will prevent the use of CSDs, which are too precarious for agents, and will encourage their participation in projects throughout their duration. The reception of doctoral students and foreign scholarship researchers will also be facilitated. The aim of these schemes is to reduce insecurity. They are complementary to the Government's announced effort to promote scientific careers. Thus, as early as 2021, it was announced that no researcher or teacher-researcher would be recruited with a salary lower than twice the minimum wage, and that new recruits would receive an average allocation of 10000 euros. The next few years are also expected to see a marked increase in the recruitment of statutory staff, in particular lecturers. In addition, the bill expands the scope of institutional evaluation, which will now cover all of their missions. It clarifies the concept of research units, in order to clarify and unify the place of these units within institutions. A stronger financial framework is also ensured through the revision of the precipital contours attributed to the institutions involved in a research project funded by the ANR. The bill addresses a third challenge, namely to facilitate exchanges between science and society, by expanding opportunities for public officials to participate in, or create, a company's life when it comes to valuing research, and by relaxing the system of cumulation of part-time activities and provision for researchers and teachers-researchers. It also promotes the rapprochement between researchers and economic actors, but also between researchers and citizens, through cultural life in the territories, thus putting the researcher at the heart of society. It is therefore researchers, their teams, society and the economy that will benefit from the funding committed in this law of programming. All these provisions make the bill a piece of progress, in favour of scientific research, the dissemination of knowledge, the improvement of the careers of researchers and teachers-researchers, and in the service of future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u8	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u9	The examination of the text in committee has already enabled the deputies to clarify and enrich the provisions proposed by the Government on several points. The 10-year programming path will result in updates at least every three years, in order to assess the different arrangements and the financial commitment, with possible revisions to the key. The conditions of recruitment for pre-titularization contracts and the composition of commissions were specified. With regard to the evaluation of research, the Commission has taken on a long-awaited development by dedicating HCERES – High Council for the Evaluation of Research and Higher Education as an independent public authority. Finally, with regard to science-society exchanges, we have discussed participatory science and the incorporation of a better gender balance in bodies and arrangements. The health crisis that we have suffered and continue to suffer must unite around this bill, in order to strengthen the means of research. I hope that the debates that are opening will bear the mark of this unity, around the urgent need to support the development of science in the next decade, at the service of society and of future generations, respecting the ideas of everyone. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] I would like to thank the rapporteurs and administrators, with whom we worked for several weeks, including weekends.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u10	Mr Philippe Berta, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u11	Our research is our ability to understand, create and innovate. From our laboratories are the innovations that will result in our future lifestyles. Tomorrow's jobs will grow there. They will lead to new therapies that heal and heal patients, or solutions that will make lifestyles sustainable and protect – urgently – the biosphere. Our ability to understand is the product of our research. The global rise of knowledge about the planet, the human body, physical and chemical phenomena, social interactions, our history and our culture, is part of the present of living together and of economic and social development as well as in the future and our ability to draw it, to make it possible, to make it better. By measuring its so crucial nature, we can rejoice at the undeniable quality of research and the commitment of its actors. France is and has been, throughout its history, a great scientific nation. We can also want the best for her and, to this end, to become aware, with benevolence and lucidity, of the phenomena of erosion at work: a decline in France's place in global research, a decline in the attractiveness of scientific careers, despair in laboratories, lack of funding, blockages in the processes of valorisation and in the bridges between the public and the private, a marked inadequacy of the scientific and technical culture of the population – with its corollary, the explosion of fake news, which has not spared the actuality of the pandemic. Too many young researchers leave abroad, who, after being trained by our education system, will not participate in the influence of our country. In different ways, Esther Duflo and Catherine Dulac offer examples, revealed this year, of this phenomenon, which more generally testify to a lack of attractiveness of the research profession in France. But the challenge is to attract the best of a generation to these professions. This is not only due to financial issues, whether they are too low in remuneration or lack of resources to conduct the work. No, the malaise seems to me partly due to a sense of blockage fuelled by complex, sometimes opaque procedures, a perfect coordination between universities and public research organisations, or between public and private structures, and an overly timid openness to the business world, to which the discoveries of our researchers should lead naturally. Our challenges are therefore numerous to make our research, neglected for so many years, its place at the heart of our society, but also at the international level. And it is to point out that the multi-year research programming bill that we are starting to examine is moving forward. It focuses on the long time, the one that research needs. Indeed, the bill has the merit of charting medium-term prospects, ignoring immediate political deadlines. If this point has been criticized, it shows, in my view, a real desire to emerge from a purely institutional timetable, to think about tomorrow's research. Our laboratories need visibility over time, beyond the electoral deadlines, which are speeding up this House, and fluctuations of majority. I am pleased that the programming law finally gives it this breath and the associated resources, alongside the recovery plan, the investment programme for the future, the European programmes and the State-region plan contracts. The bill tends to bring both a vision, that the attached report is explicit with conviction, financial means and improvements on all the identified blocking points. Even if it may appear modest, the removal of bottlenecks will be decisive in the medium to long term. These simplification measures are included in Titles IV and V, of which I am rapporteur. Title IV of the bill seeks first to improve the relationship between the world of research and society as a whole, including the world of business. I know how much, especially in health research, an area in which I can have a few skills and which is dear to me, this issue is crucial for the work of our researchers to be translated into well-being for our patients. Article 13 thus expands the possibilities open to public officials to participate in the life of a company, or even to create one, when it comes to valuing research. Article 14 allows researchers and teachers-researchers to share more easily between an educational activity, a research activity and a part-time job in an enterprise, thanks to the relaxation of the system of cumulation of part-time activities and provision of services. Article 15 provides, in particular, that research organisations, like educational institutions, may create mechanisms of interest which may involve researchers even more financially in the results and applications of their research. Our work in committee has been part of this process of fluidizing the exchanges between the research community and the private sphere, devoting not only the notion of relationships but also that of interactions between them. It has also opened up the possibility of creating or participating in a company, and of valuing its research, including for hospital public servants. It included contracts concluded with local authorities as one of the valuation situations. He authorized research personnel to participate in an existing business as a partner or executive. It allowed a private employee to benefit, without breaking his employment contract, from a leave of absence for a period of up to one year, to teach or participate in a research activity in a higher education institution. These measures will encourage exchanges between the world of research and the whole of society and the economy, to the greatest benefit of all, I hope, and first of all to that of researchers. It is also a matter of speeding up the mutual knowledge of these actors. The last title of the bill contains various simplification and reorganization measures. Here are some examples. Article 19 replaces with a simple prior declaration scheme the current authorisation regime to which public officials are subject when they wish to carry out an ancillary activity which falls within their statutory tasks. I am in favour of this measure, although it seems to me that this cumulation must remain reasonable. Is it necessary to impose a ceiling on him in the law? Or should it require their connecting body to fix one? The first solution presents the disadvantage of aligning very different situations with the line, when the second could create inequalities between researchers according to their place of origin. After reflection, I preferred to remain a call to wisdom. Article 20a, which I have introduced by way of amendment, allows the competent authorities to adapt, in the event of an emergency, the nature, number, content, coefficient and conditions of the organisation of the examination tests, which may in particular be carried out in a dematerialised manner. It thus draws the consequences of the health crisis of the covid-19, by persevering, in the event of force majeure, the authorization given to the competent authorities to take any measure to adapt the arrangements for the awarding of diplomas in higher education. Article 22 provides for a review of the rules for the opening and operation of private higher education institutions "in order to strengthen the monitoring of the conditions required of management and teaching staff and to combat fraud and breaches of public order". These include private higher education institutions which are likely to follow a community-based or even sectarian approach. However, other institutions should not be adversely affected. Finally, section 24 establishes a territorial health research committee at each university hospital centre, where universities, other health institutions, liberal health professionals, research organizations, local authorities and, why not, industry representatives will be represented. The poles of competitiveness must have their full place there. This would be coordinated by the CHU and the university. Title V, with its round lists at the Prévert, has the red thread of lifting various barriers, in order to simplify, fluidize and even better coordinate. It thus complements the previous titles usefully and gives impetus in terms of budgetary effort, human resources, financing, organisation and openness to the economy and society. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] With this bill, public policy for research has developed a course and a concrete roadmap for our scientific community and our common future. How can we not rejoice?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u12	Mrs Valérie Gomez-Bassac, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u13	Student fellow, student employee, individual contractor, ATER – temporary teacher and research assistant –, contractor under external principal contract, contract, qualification after first failure, job search, difficult hiring with young children, and finally recruitment. This route is that of many young people; This journey, it was also mine. The reality of our system is this: precariousness at all levels, unequal opportunities in the preparation of a doctorate, difficulties in obtaining a qualification, discrimination against women. Some courses end well, but others are thanked after having chained up about ten years in CSD at all levels. It is therefore with real pride that I present myself before you as the rapporteur of Title II of the bill, which includes measures to attract research professionals. Indeed, the whole stake of the articles that make up this title is to make these careers attractive, especially their beginning. The first tool is the Junior Professor Chairs, which represent a new opportunity to recruit in research atypical profiles and people who have had experiences in the private sector or abroad. Previously disadvantaged in traditional recruitment systems, these candidates had for years been pursuing their careers abroad, sometimes in more attractive and often more suitable systems. By creating a new access to tenure – because yes, the primary objective of these chairs is tenure –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u15	...the bill ends the years of short contracts that, for those of us who come from the academic world, we knew during our careers. Let us be honest: a system in which tenure is obtained, on average, at 34 years and after years of precarious contracts is not worthy of our country. These Chairs do not call into question the current qualification system. I register falsely against speeches that would make it appear that their creation would harm public research. First of all because the job path plans to increase the number of recruitments through qualification, as the minister committed herself to it: for each creation of a junior professor's chair, an additional promotion from a lecturer to the faculty of university professors will be opened. In addition, the device is not mandatory; This is an opportunity for institutions. In committee, we have better supervised the chair system, limiting the recruitment ceiling to 20% and changing the composition of the recruitment and tenure commissions, in order to avoid localism and strengthen equality between women and men. These chairs are an opportunity for our country. The text is also concerned with doctoral and post-doctoral contracts. The new private doctoral contracts are more adapted to the specificities of the doctorate and above all provide greater security for the career and recruitment of doctoral students in the private sector. The strengthening of the link with the business world does not, however, imply a lack of supervision. In particular, the work carried out in committee clarified the need for a match between the contract and the subject of the thesis, or the organisation of time between work and research. These contracts will be one of the keys to improving the relationship between research and business, facilitating the professional integration of researchers and strengthening the link between knowledge and innovation. Post-doctoral contracts provide a framework for in-between periods, in order to combat the current precarious situation, which many thousands of young doctors suffer, one can only see. Let's be honest, what have we been offering them so far, except for precariousness? We secure and provide all the necessary legal guarantees, creating a post-doctoral contract in public law and a post-doctoral contract in private law, each responding to a specific situation. These contracts will offer solutions to post-doctoral students who find themselves without any solution adapted to their situation. The second major issue in Title II is the continuity of research projects. It is all the ambition of the CDI's scientific mission, which will record careers in the long term. The chaining of precarious contracts was no longer acceptable. The scientific mission CDI responds to this situation by means of a contract adapted to the duration of the research project for which it will be concluded. This contract is intended to limit the massive use of precarious contracts currently known in the research world. This major progress will prevent us from having to worry more about the type of contract hosting the research work than about the work itself. The CDI of scientific mission gives a solid response to precariousness, because it is a classic and long-term contract, with all the guarantees that this implies. Here again, the Commission has strengthened the scheme by securing situations of breakdown and by clearly defining the arrangements for accompanying employees. Finally, the attractiveness of careers is linked to the international attractiveness of research. Beyond the Chairs, which will, I repeat, be an important tool to attract young talent, the bill provides a framework for research visits, in order to better welcome doctoral students and international researchers who come to France. These research visits will give doctoral students and researchers more protection, including by improving their social coverage. They will also enhance the attractiveness of our institutions. Beyond these measures, the text reinforces essential aspects of our research, from advancement to cumulative activity, from the attractiveness of talent to the pursuit of research projects. These measures aim to simplify and better support career development in research. As you have said, Madam Minister, they will rely on unprecedented financial commitments to raise salaries: for example, an additional €92 million will be allocated each year to research and higher education staff. As of next year, no more research fellows, no more lecturers will be recruited at a salary less than twice the SMIC. As of next year, all conference lecturers without exception will earn an extra 1000 euros per year and all research fellows without exception will earn an additional 1300 euros per year. The bill also provides for a 30 per cent increase in the remuneration of doctoral students and a 20 per cent increase in the thesis funding in all fields of research. It also plans to create 5000 posts in the next 10 years, an unprecedented effort in the current context. These measures will be reinforced by a memorandum of understanding on careers and remuneration in higher education and research, currently under discussion with the social partners. No government has done so much for research. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] I am convinced that this text responds to identified needs and corrects the limitations of the current system. It gives French research the keys to being more competitive at the international level. It represents progress in researching and providing the means and tools that no other government has provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, this text gives scientific careers the attractiveness and recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u18	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u19	When you love your country, you invest in research. No great nation can be achieved without a demanding ambition, visible both in its place in its political priorities and in its support for the excellence of its science. In fact, investing in research amounts to believing in its future, in its youth, in the victorious outcome of the challenges that we collectively face. I am talking about the major current transitions: environmental, health, technological and political. France has always been a great research and innovation nation; Thanks to this text, which supports a vision that meets the challenges, it will remain so. The difficult period we have just experienced collectively has shed light on the need to know, that is, to understand, what is happening, what needs to be done, what needs to be explained. We have found that uncertainty generates concerns and tensions, which fuel the debate. Knowledge, ignorance and controversy now seem to be taking hold; This creates a vicious circle that feeds doubt, including to science itself, yet charged with dispelling it. Research and science are used to describe things or events, to propose interpretations and to give meaning to them. They help us to evolve in knowledge and practice, while measuring their ethical consequences and defining a clear and rigorous method. Finally, they provide answers about the past and discover ways to live better in the future. Our society needs to better value its science and disseminate it better because it is one of the last democratic ramparts. No one is unaware, for example, of the stakes of technological development for work, especially with the rise of digital technology in all its aspects. No one should ignore the role of technology in information, with the spread of false news, favored on the one hand by knowledge of the functioning of our attention and, on the other hand, by its ignorance. No one can ignore the risk of a low place given to scientific culture in our general culture. We must therefore be aware of the role of research and the place of its leaders in society; the role that political, economic and cultural decision-makers must play in promoting progress and the role that everyone can play in participating and interested in it. Sharing content and methods is fundamental. Science progresses in a non-linear way, and often invisible to most of us, although the actors are working to make their work accessible. It also progresses thanks to the interdisciplinarity, which allows the sharing of knowledge as well as meaning. On the part of researchers, obstacles such as the influence of another bureaucracy in the organisation and evaluation processes, the uncertainty of the sustainability of funding and the difficulty of disseminating their work massively should be removed. For all these reasons, the multi-year research programming law represents a necessity for our country, beyond being a strong commitment of the majority. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] France excels in this area: even in our assembly, some of our colleagues have been great ambassadors – I am thinking of Cédric Villani, winner of the Fields Medal of Mathematics.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u21	It embodies the value of our researchers and provides an example of the role they have to play for society as a whole. [[Smile]] Science is everywhere, it leads to discoveries and innovations, and it inspires the pride of our country. The list of examples that illustrate it is long; We tend to forget it, but when we dive into it for a few moments, we better understand the scope of French research and innovation in our daily lives. The musicians know that the metronome and the electric organ are French inventions. Students should not forget that ball pens have been invented in their country. The barbecue enthusiasts – I know there are in this Chamber – will never forget that the match was invented in France. Doctors and medical personnel, to whom we pay tribute, know that the stethoscope is French. The feruses of the Tour de France – there are also some –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u22	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u23	I know this is your case, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u24	But unfortunately this is not the case for everyone...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u25	The feruses of the Tour de France, I said, keep in mind, at every moment, that the rustine and the K-way come from our home. The lovers of the image will have an emotional thought for the invention of photography and the cinema projector. Citizens will consider the discovery of BCG, rabies and tetanus vaccines, as well as, in another registry, the automobile, the microcomputer, and Roland Moreno's smart card in mobile phones, access cards and payment cards that flood the world: so many inventions in our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u26	Long live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, live France! Nor should we forget that the greatest French champions and champions – Jeannie Longo, Teddy Riner, Kylian Mbappé, Amandine Henry or Delphine Cascarino – benefit from daily research to improve their performance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u29	In other disciplines, we would not have advanced or improved our knowledge of our own behaviours without investing in projects, whether basic or applied research. I am thinking of Henri Savall, who has worked for more than forty years on our report on the work and socio-economic consequences of management methods on our daily lives. I am also thinking of the contributions of the research in medieval history, which you have mentioned, Madam Minister, particularly with regard to the consequences of the black plague on society, which inform us about the effects of pandemics. I am also thinking of Audrey Dussutour and his research on blob, a unicellular organism that has very high learning and problem-solving capabilities, which can inspire an ideal model for future bioinformatics tools. Finally, we note the importance of investing in research projects related to our travel patterns through public-private partnerships. A French first took place in Saclay last week, with a demonstration of a tele-operative ship, which revolutionizes our relationship to maritime autonomy; This innovation will even save the lives of our soldiers in the future. Airbus offers another example, by announcing 100% hydrogen aircraft. The research will therefore continue to question us, to upset us, and will allow us to address the great challenges of tomorrow with greater confidence and serenity. The twentieth century was that of quantitative; the twenty-first century must be that of quality. We have done our utmost to enrich this already ambitious text, thanks to a very high quality of listening to the Minister and the Government. From Article 1, we clarified that the 3% of GDP target for research funding was a minimum and that at least 1% of GDP would be spent on government expenditure. We have introduced measures to inform and monitor Parliament, asking the Government for a budget implementation report prior to the annual public finance policy debate. This provision has been supplemented by a so-called "review" clause to update programming every three years, in order to ensure that the resources, in particular financial resources, are appropriate to the objectives set. In addition, in Article 10 we have adopted several amendments aimed at strengthening the credibility and integrity of science, at deeply redefining the legal framework governing the High Council for the Evaluation of Research and Higher Education, in particular by dedicating it as an independent public authority and revising its governance. Because we don't have to have a priori on excellence, we had to ask ourselves about the relationship our society has with science. As such, we proposed to strengthen the means for better dissemination of science in society and to better link scientific research projects with citizen participation initiatives, as well as with participatory research. Some projects of this kind already have some success, such as FRIPON and Bakery, as well as initiatives, such as JEDI, which connects researchers, citizens and companies around technological subjects at the service of the great transitions. We have also strengthened the definition of the vision of French research, specifying a number of points in the attached report. Many of us have wanted to guide French scientific excellence by putting it under the ground key of the 17 sustainable development goals, which we celebrate this week every 5 years. This means that we still have ten years to achieve the goals of this road map. Beyond that, we have ensured that young doctors who have completed part of their professional career abroad are followed up and that they are better represented by the sexes in research, in order to promote equality. We have focused on a variety of themes that research will need to consider, such as forests and oceans, and on improving human resource management procedures. We have given a better impetus to the fiscal trajectory by mobilizing a significant share of the resources of the Recovery Plan and the IAP4, which is expected to increase by about 40% for the period 2021-2030, compared to the previous IAP funding in 2020. Science has contributed to changing our worldview and improving the living conditions of all of us; We must therefore use all means to support it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I cannot finish this intervention without mentioning the exceptional Edgar Morin, who invites us collectively to develop a rigorous method, not to sink into ease, but rather to develop a complex thought at the service of anthropoethics, humanity, the planet and the living. Recognizing our responsibility to future generations, we will vote with the greatest pride for the multi-year research programming bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u31	Mr Frédéric Reiss, rapporteur for the Committee on Cultural, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u32	It may seem incongruous to be a rapporteur for a law that has not yet been passed. However, in view of the difficult gestation of this text and the current health crisis, one and a half years before the presidential election, it is logical to be concerned now with the implementation of much-anticipated measures. Delayed because of covid-19, the research programming bill is criticized by a large part of the scientific community. She agrees on the urgency – that is the consensus, Madam Minister – but not on the method. Researchers fear that competitive research will become selective and create more insecurity in their profession. A Strasbourg lecturer warns: "Research performance is a bad thing. Good science is done if you don't lie; If we're forced to produce, we're going to start lying massively. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u33	It's got a nerve!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u34	In this period of health crisis, when the billions injected into the economy are turning around, we can only approve the substantial increase in appropriations for research. The draft programming law foresees an increase of €5 billion in research funding in 2030, including €1 billion for the ANR as early as 2027, thus consolidating its place in the field of research. The upgrading of careers is a titanic project that must take into account all staff and public institutions, not just those of MESRI – the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. The research programming law for the years 2021 to 2030 must cover all French research. In my view, the effectiveness of applied research in business is one of the issues. While the priority of the programming law must be to make progress in basic research, these two approaches, although different, are complementary. It may be necessary to promote, through new means, a new proximity between the university and companies in the field of research, resulting in a strong synergy with socio-economic actors. One of the main objectives is to provide financial margins for French research. However, the proposed ten-year budgetary programming will probably not be sufficient to achieve the Lisbon objective. At least one fiscal ambition that takes into account inflation and the development of national GDP will be required. Amendments, some of which have been discussed in committee, are in this direction. The duration of programming of this law is unusually long, which creates the risk that this programming will not be respected by the governments of the next two quinquennats.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u35	In its opinion of 23 July, the Council of State stressed the mediocrity of the impact assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u37	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u38	It contains a list of six indicators covering only part of the research activities. Since we cannot include these in the body of the text, I will suggest some suggestions for improvement. Bibliographic indicators are increasingly controversial and do not apply to disciplines that primarily publish books and not articles. This impact indicator would benefit from a more comprehensive analysis by France in global scientific publications. It could be added with an indicator of ethics and scientific integrity set up by the OFIS – Office français de l'integrité scientifique. It would be useful to set up an independent observatory on scientific employment, in particular to monitor the differential between the employment ceiling and the opening of posts by establishment and by discipline. The High Council could draw on this in its evaluation work and go further than the biennial report on the state of scientific employment. Adding to the impact indicators an indicator of the simplification of the administrative burden in public research, taking as a reference the barometer of the simplification of laboratory life, would also be useful. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and LT groups]] Unfortunately, France does not have the culture of evaluation, which is necessary, if only to assess the impact of this multi-annual research programming law on the attractiveness and quality of the French research and higher education system. The main issue raised by this bill is its respect, including its budget, in the coming years. The implementing rapporteur undertakes to be vigilant on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u39	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u40	[[Protests on the benches of the commission]] Minister, your multi-year research programming bill was very much expected for at least two reasons: first, because it is only the third since 1982, which is in your honour; and above all because it aims to catch up with France's backwardness over the last 15 years in terms of investment in research, particularly compared to the other major world economic powers. However, this bill has given rise to great disappointment, in the unanimous opinion of the research community.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u41	Unanime?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u42	Yes, unanimous, with the possible exception of the Collège de France, whose representatives explained this morning that this text was better than nothing. All the others – and I weigh my words – said they were very disappointed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u43	Even the National Council for Higher Education and Research?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u44	Even the voters told you yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u45	Because this disappointment is great, that we love research and that we consider that "the Republic needs scientists", as Pierre Mendès France reminded us in this rostrum on 3 June 1953, because we believe that research should be a strategic lever at the highest level of the state and that the level of resources allocated to research in France is no longer acceptable, we have decided, together with my group, to completely review the budgetary trajectory that you are presenting to us, by providing for a line-based costed counter-budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u46	Well, let's see. Why didn't you do it during the five years you were in power?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u47	We have calculated this fiscal trajectory by assuming, which you did not do, that it reached 1% of GDP in 2027. In fact, that objective was not included in your bill: it took an amendment from the rapporteur to add it. And above all, your fiscal trajectory is not based on that objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u48	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u49	You can repeat the calculations as you want, or even ask our colleague Cédric Villani to help you, you will not find that your fiscal trajectory reaches 1% of GDP, neither in 2027 nor in 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u50	Not ever!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u51	Of course, we agree: France spends less on its research than the other rich countries, and its delay is even greater in terms of research financed by public actors. In 2007, our country played an equal role with Germany. Since then, the budget allocated to public research has reached almost 1% of GDP, which is not the case for us. Besides, I agree that you are not responsible for it,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u52	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u53	... as this situation has been going on since 2007.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u54	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u55	Secondly, France has fewer researchers than Germany: for every 100,000 inhabitants, public research employs 173 researchers in France, compared with 207 in Germany. Finally, our country pays researchers less than its counterparts: 35% less at the beginning of their careers and 15% less at the end of their careers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u56	It's gonna change.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u57	Yes, the disappointment with your programming bill is great, because of the fiscal trajectory you are proposing. I repeat: it was not until the amendment tabled in committee by the rapporteur, Pierre-Alain Raphan, that the 1% of GDP target should be mentioned in the text, which does not mean that it is the focal point for the construction of your budget path.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u58	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u59	[[Exclaims on the MODEM benches]] We have therefore recalculated the calculations according to a fiscal trajectory aiming at 1% of GDP in 2027, which leads us to obtain, for 2027, 9,2 billion euros more than the finance law for 2020, when you propose, for 2027, 3.3 billion euros more than in the finance law for 2020. These figures are on page 28 of the impact statement you signed, but perhaps you forgot them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u60	You're forgetting the recovery plan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u61	It goes without saying that I have included in this calculation the sums included in the recovery plan, do not be afraid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u62	That still means 6 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u63	[["Yes! »on the benches of the SOC Group]] Moving from this target, the additional annual investment to reach 1% of GDP in 2027 is 1.315 billion euros more per year, when you stay around 500 million to 600 million euros. This means that, to reach 1% of GDP in 2027, you're missing €6 billion. You can review the numbers. We'll send you all the paintings. You will see that they are set, contrary to your fiscal trajectory, which is not based on a target of 1% of GDP in 2027 or even 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u64	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u65	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u66	Another equally great disappointment concerns the proposals you make to improve the situation of researchers. Let's start with hiring. You are planning to create 5200 positions by 2030, which would raise the number of public researchers to 182 per 100,000 inhabitants. I repeat that, in public establishments, Germany has 207 per 100,000 inhabitants. At the same time, the Government plans to increase contractual staff by 15,000 posts over the period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u67	Good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u68	... whose distribution we don't know. To mask the inadequacy of these hirings, you are inventing three statutory ways: the chair of junior professor; the doctoral contract in private law; the contract for an indefinite scientific mission. The three have one thing in common: no minimum wage is defined; no minimum duration is fixed, except for the junior professor's chair; Finally, you do not foresee any specific provisions, all of which are referred to a decree. You justify these creations by the fact that it is necessary to make the profession of researcher attractive and to facilitate bridges with the private. Seriously, do you know many fields, in France, where, when a permanent post is opened, it raises between seven and twenty applications for recruitment to baccalaureate +8 for 1,700 net euros per month? This situation is probably unique in the world. Yes, young people want to join public laboratories because they love research and France still has a power of attractiveness, despite the notoriously low level of wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u69	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u70	[[Applause on the SOC benches, as well as on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Therefore, your three contract proposals are a false answer to a real problem. Worse, this so-called answer will worsen the problem. From the working conditions of the researchers and the evolution of the real time they devote to research, you say nothing. In public institutions, half of the researchers are teachers-researchers who have to provide 192 teaching hours per year, plus the preparation of courses and the increasing administrative tasks associated with them, which have become increasingly time-consuming over the years. In the face of this situation, you don't propose anything. For our part, we suggest freeing up research time by reducing teaching time in front of students by 25% and to compensate for this reduction by hiring 3,000 teachers-researchers per year from 2021 to 2025, which represents an annual cost of 170 million euros. Finally, your proposals for upgrading constitute only a commitment for 2021 and, in the future, intentions that only involve programmers. The only truth we will see is that of the law of finance. However, you did not consider it useful to draft a real financial projection. On this point, we are making another proposal: an average increase of EUR 1600 per year for the period 2021-2025, at an additional annual cost of EUR 200 million. With regard to the quarter of the 73500 doctoral students, who do not receive decent funding for their thesis, you do not propose anything concrete. You have an intention – to increase the number of PhDs funded by the Ministry of Research by 20% – without providing anything for current PhD students who are deprived of decent funding conditions. We propose to ensure for each 1.5 SMIC per month, at a catch-up budget cost of EUR 150 million. Nor do you say anything about those who, among the 130,000 individual contractors who teach in the superior, find themselves in a precarious situation. You also remain silent on the necessary bridges for the doctors. Each year, 14,000 students receive their doctorates; Only half of them can be recruited in public institutions. Finally, in a more cyclical way, you do not make any real commitment to allow students in the thesis affected by the coronavirus crisis to benefit from an additional year. As regards the conditions for the exercise of the research profession, you are undertaking a first step, which I welcome, through the start-up allocation. The general view is that this should be extended for a further two years, which would amount to three times 10000 euros, instead of the 10000 euros you propose. Finally, there is no mention of any investment in premises in the programming bill. Joël Giraud, then rapporteur-general, who has since become Secretary of State for Rural Affairs, alerted you to this in his report on the Regulation Law for 2018. As part of its steps, I propose an additional annual investment of 150 million euros for the period, in addition to the 777 million already allocated. If we add them together, all our proposals are worth $975 million. As I said, we are starting from a budget base of 1.315 billion more per year, leaving an average of 340 million for projects. That's what I was trying to get at. You don't explain where you want to take the search. You are introducing a ten-year programming law, however less precise than the targets set out in the 2013 law, which was not a programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u71	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u72	However, addressing research in front of us parliamentarians, politicians, is an opportunity to confront progress and, I hope, enthusiastically. To cite an example, on September 14, 2015, the experiment showed the existence of gravitational waves. France, Italy and the United States were at the origin of this major breakthrough. To discover gravitational waves is to give an illustration of the theory developed by Einstein in 1905 on general relativity, which states that gravitation is at the bottom a curvature between space and time. One could draw a philosophical dissertation, but let us sum up by saying that, if we compared two identical clocks, the one that would have stayed in one gravitational field would delay compared to the other. This is one of the examples of extraordinary, almost magical advances made in the scientific field and resulting from programs that, for many, were decided before 2010 and funded in past years. We will be accountable to future generations for what we decide or do not decide today. To vote for a research programming law, it is necessary to project into an unknown universe, which is by definition dizzying. But one can still approach vertigo seriously and rigorously. To do this, I repeat, we must at least establish a budget scoping based on serious assumptions, which you have not done. As mathematician Henri Poincaré, dear to our colleague Cédric Villani, said: "Mathematical discoveries, small or large, never arise from a spontaneous generation. It does not exist in research, where only the researchers' efforts, their work, their enthusiasm and their will count. For this enthusiasm to shine in the country, it must be brought to the highest level of the state. Legend has it that Barack Obama received every week the U.S. Chief Science Advisor to take stock of major research issues. In France, the Office parlementaire d'évaluation des choix scientifiques et technologiques, where some of you sit, which I welcome, deplored, in its 2017 report, the low commitment, at the highest level of the state, regardless of the majority in power. That is why we advocate cultural change at the highest level of the state. We propose the establishment of a Strategic Research Council, like the Defence and National Security Council; It would be chaired by the President of the Republic and would meet at least twice a year to discuss major arbitrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u73	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u74	These arbitrations, Minister, you refused to return them in your research programming bill. All the actors we met confirmed it to us: "She doesn't want to decide. In my eyes, it is a weakness; Worse than that, it's a breach of the law. Article 15 of the Act of 22 July 2013 provides that the national research strategy shall be reviewed every five years. This means that the strategy should have been reviewed by 2018 at the latest, which was not the case; It should, at a minimum, have been revised in the context of this programming bill. The national research strategy had ten challenges, which are still relevant: sober resource management and adaptation to climate change; clean and safe energy; Industrial renewal; food security, etc. The last point I wish to raise before you concerns the protection of our research. Any invention, some day or another, escapes its inventor, if only because it constitutes progress for humanity and, therefore, it is destined to benefit all humans. However, we are not forbidden to value what we do. I will mention the case of photovoltaic cells, which are largely based on research carried out in France on silicon. However, there is no industrial sector in which large-scale photovoltaic cells can be manufactured here in France, and we buy them in China: this means that we have paid for the research of the Chinese. This kind of pitfall must be avoided. For this reason, we propose that, once a year, the Strategic Research Council, chaired by the President of the Republic, define the advances in research for which an industrial extension is necessary, in order to prevent others from becoming aware. There is a very concrete case of topicality: the hydrogen industry. As you will understand, the proposals put forward in the research programming bill do not, in our view, answer the questions posed to you by the researchers. Above all, the trajectory you are presenting here is, I repeat, a fiscal lie, because spending does not reach 1% of GDP, neither in 2027, nor in 2028, nor in 2030 – unless you establish, in your calculations, a collapse of GDP due to the health crisis, and I hope that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u75	It's possible, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u76	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] We will hand over a trajectory built on the target of 1% of GDP in 2027. Take it! In the immediate future, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u77	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u78	Mrs. Rabault, I listened to you with great attention. I wish your proposals would have been made at other times,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u79	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u80	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ...because past governments could have just as much promoted these ambitions, which I fully share. But we are the first government and the first majority to act in this way. Let me take up a few important figures. The allocation of programmes 172 and 150 amounted to EUR 10116 million in 2012 and EUR 10081 million in 2016. [[The chairman of the committee applauds]] I hear, of course, the doubts expressed about the oppositions about the ability to reach 3% of GDP. This commitment dates back to the years 2000; The deadline was then set in 2010. I am extremely proud that the current majority is the one who finally takes the first steps towards 3%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u81	As if it all started with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u82	With you, is the day getting up?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u83	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We can claim to love research, but this love requires proof. What did you choose to invest when you made the budgets? Your ideas would probably have been appreciated – and I am speaking here to both the right and the left of the Chamber. At one time, 5,000 more jobs were announced, resulting in 3,500 fewer jobs in reality... [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] As for the observation of gravitational waves, I would like to know what disciplinary strategy of the NRS – a national research strategy – could have placed the funding of their research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u84	What an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u85	In the explanations of vote on the motion for rejection, the floor is Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u86	As the minister has just explained, it is difficult to give lessons when we have been to the responsibilities and have a liability: the lack of results in supporting our country's research policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u87	You've been in charge for three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u88	But let's not pollise. A text is submitted to us: we must get into the heart of the matter. The Action Group wants to act in the general interest and wants the opposition to be able to defend its arguments, proposals and counter-proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u89	We will!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u90	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why we will reject the motion to reject beforehand: in order to advance research in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u91	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u92	The bill is substantially the same as the one that challenged the world of research last December. No lessons have been learned from the health crisis, while chronic under-investment in basic research is at the root of the fragility of our knowledge of coronavirus, as one researcher, Bruno Canard, points out. Nor has any teaching been drawn from the EESC's opinion, which deplored the fact that the bill is not up to the challenges, even though it considers it: "The scientific position of France is now under threat. That is why the group of La France insoumée will vote in favour of the motion to reject beforehand tabled by our colleagues in the Socialist and related group, with the wish to remind the Government of some obvious facts. No, minister, the additional $5 billion promised for public research is not budget commitments, but promises...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u93	We keep our promises!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u94	... based on the goodwill of future governments, so your replacements. No, it is also not a scientific policy to devote the logic of calls for tenders to public research. The search for attractiveness at all costs is an outdated policy in the knowledge economy of the 21st century. All major global players prefer massive investment, as wide as possible. Finally, no, your project is not eagerly awaited by the academic and scientific world, on the contrary. A few steps away from here, in front of the National Assembly, trade unions, students, researchers, faculties, laboratories and journals are demonstrating to oppose the privatization of research, the growing precariousness of staff and the disorganisation of laboratories. Let them be sure to find the FI group at their side in front of your destructive project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u95	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u96	I would like to point out, in the preamble, that the EDS Group considers that the budgetary effort provided for in the research programming bill is significant. But it must be acknowledged that ten years is a long time, and the question of budgetary sincerity arises cruelly. As a reminder, the military programming law is planned for five years; the Law on Programming and Reform for Justice as well. We have far-reaching promises, particularly regarding university research – the 150 program – since 40% of the effort is focused on the 2028s, 2029s and 2030s! This problem of trust, Madam Minister, you cannot ignore it. The extremely poor impact assessment adds to the problem. Extremely poor because the projections on the new statutes are non-existent. What budgetary impact will all these new professions, these new career forms, have? In the current state of the text, it is not known. Minister, the research community has no confidence, and we are waiting for your input. We will not vote in favour of the motion for rejection because the budgetary effort is real, but in the course of the next debate we expect explanations of the problems raised by Mrs Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u97	On the motion of prior rejection, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u98	The GDR Group will vote in favour of the rejection motion tabled by the Socialist and Related Group because, as we have detailed at length in committee, the bill does not meet the expectations and needs of an environment that has been exsangued by years of underfunding. In addition, as several colleagues have pointed out, the bill is spread over ten years. Ten years of engagement, if they start strong, why not? The problem is that it is difficult for us to see your commitments as such, since they are, for the most part, focused on the end of the ten years. They should therefore be described as promises, and promises commit only those who formulate them. Moreover, even assuming that we trust you, it is just as difficult to imagine that in eight years' time you will still be Minister of Higher Education and Research. Many studies show – and those who support daily research – how harmful chronic underfunding in higher education and research is. Crisis situations, like the one we're going through, highlight it: in this new year, it cracks at university. It cracks because many places have not been created; It cracks with burn-outs for the teachers-researchers, who have to put teachers in front of the students, and who, down from the missions they want to carry out in research, come to manage the shortage and precariousness by going to look for precarious, paid to the SMIC, four months late, and whose travel costs are not even covered. Now, what you are proposing in this bill is not massive tenures; No, it is also precarious, with mission CDIs, tenure tracks and other devices derogating from the status of the civil service. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] For us, it's no.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u99	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u100	If the law on the programming of research does not result in spectacular budgetary efforts, efforts are made to do so. The text does not show particularly strong ambitions in the short term, but ambitions. [[The chairman of the committee applauds]] It raises a number of questions and is controversial, particularly with regard to staff and researchers. We do not consider it to be the subject of broad consensus in the research world, but we look forward to discussing it. That is why the LT Group will not join the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u101	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u102	The observation is widely shared: French research, for too many years, has not received support commensurate with the excellence of its researchers and the ambition of their work. While we are committed to rearming research in France, the Socialist and Related Group wants to reject a massive investment of 25 billion euros. Where's the logic? Some expressed doubts about the sincerity of the PBDA and the intentions of the majority. To these, I would like to recall that we started, as early as 2017, through successive financial laws, the upsurge in funding for our research, with a much more sustained effort than under the previous quinquennium. In addition, this text expresses the desire to strengthen career attractiveness, with major salary increases already announced. It is now about creating a set of mechanisms to attract the best talent, including the establishment of junior chairs, and to give stability to our doctoral students through doctoral contracts. To those who denounce a precarization of the scientific professions, I will oppose the desire to secure the journeys by offering conditions adapted to the realities of the field, taking into account, for example, the temporality of the theses and research projects. Of course, concerns may have arisen. But our debates, both in committee, for example on individual contractors, and at the sitting, for example on the 1% of GDP threshold – which should still include investment plans for the future or State-region plan contracts – will, I am sure, help to address these concerns. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] French research has been calling for a budget-programming law for years. It is no longer time to step back, because of a lack of perspective or audacity. That is why the LaREM Group strongly supports the bill and will vote against the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u103	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u104	A law of programming for research is a good thing, of course. But the problem is elsewhere: it is primarily due to the method. You have no strategic vision, as Mr Rabault has clearly shown. What are your goals? I would also like to say that this is only a matter of government communication. There are promises but no commitments, you know that. In addition – we will come back to it during the general discussion – the text contains budget lies, cup manoeuvres. In short, insinicity is real, it must be said. This is not the way to deal with research. It is contempt, and the opposite of what should be done. On the other hand, a programming law requires, if not unanimity, at least a broad consensus. When you realize that almost all opposition groups are standing up against your text neither done nor done, you should still question yourself. What you are doing is obviously not in the right direction. Look at today's statement by the President and CEO of CNRS: "We have a choice between the PBDA or nothing, because there is no Plan B." That is not the way to look at things. In truth, we would like to torpedo this text that we would not do otherwise. Minister, you need to review your copy from bottom to bottom, because the research deserves better!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] That is why the LR Group will vote without hesitation on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u107	So, congratulations on that support, Mrs. Rabault!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u108	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u109	In the face of recent events, including the Covid-19 pandemic, we are all more aware than ever of the need to support French research and its development, so that our society can meet the challenges of the future. As a result, we express our deep disagreement with the socialist will to oppose this motion of rejection prior to the adoption of the draft PBDA, the aim of which is, however, to rearm the French research and higher education sector, which has been suffering from underinvestment for several years. Let us recall that, while research has seen its budget shrink during previous legislatures, while the reforms undertaken by the Socialist Party have not been able to provide sufficient resources to reform this sector in depth, it is now a reverse movement that is starting. Since 2017, MESRI has seen its budget increase by more than €1.7 billion, an increase of almost 7%. As for the PBDA, it will allow a budgetary effort of more than €25 billion over the next ten years. And other mechanisms will make it possible to combine efforts to enable a far-reaching reform of research. The recovery plan will thus provide an additional €6.5 billion, of which €2.55 billion will be allocated over the period 2021-2022 via IAP 4. The text that we are going to discuss must therefore, through the funding it provides and the measures it contains, restore to French research its ability to bring progress and innovation to our society, but also to be internationally competitive. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement reiterates its support for the adoption of the programming law and will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. How easy it is to shoot red balls and draw new shots on the comet when you haven't done much before and you're partly responsible for the delay taken by the research!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u110	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u111	The research programming bill for the years 2021 to 2030 was highly anticipated by the scientific community.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u112	At least since 2012!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u113	It must be noted that he does not reassure them; On the contrary, he worries them. French research is in crisis, due to the regular attacks and the impoverishment that it has continued to suffer for too many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u114	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u115	Whose fault is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u116	Far from reducing the growing precariousness of the research profession, the bill will strengthen it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u117	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u118	More pernicious, for the first time in the history of our Parliament, a ten-year programming bill is being made, as Patrick Hetzel pointed out. You're talking about ambition, long-term; But it's nothing but a budget lie. As Valérie Rabault has demonstrated with talent in defending the motion for prior rejection, in the financial trajectory, he will miss 6 billion euros in 2027, and even in 2030! The budgetary effort to reach the 3% of GDP threshold for research spending and the 1% threshold for public research is only starting very slowly: you expect the largest budget increases for the last three years, from 2028 to 2030. The world of research deserves means, stability and clarity. We propose seven-year programming, with an investment of EUR 1 billion each year. In order to put France back on the track of global scientific excellence, public research must be funded at 1% of GDP, as in Germany, where this threshold was reached in 2019. Minister, you are calling for your enthusiasm. That's very good, but be careful, beyond proclamations and intentions, not to turn the programming bill into Gascon's promise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u119	[[Smile on the benches of the SOC group]] Don't mix the Gascons with that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u120	[[Applause on a few benches of the SOC and FI groups]] The SOC Group will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u121	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u122	No, this bill is not perfect; Yes, we would have liked to know more about the content of the recently presented recovery plan before judging the programming that is before us. The IDU group would also have preferred shorter-term programming, less likely to experience the hazards of time. We also expected more concrete measures in favour of university staff and the reception of students, because when we talk about research, we necessarily talk about those who teach and learn in universities. [[Applause and "Very good! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is precisely to discuss these issues and to improve the text that we are in this House. The future of our researchers, and therefore ours, deserves a debate on the funding, organisation and promotion of our research. We will therefore not vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u123	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u124	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 65 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 15 Against 50
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u125	In the general debate, Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u126	This research programming bill aims to put our country back in the forefront of international rankings, to put us at the forefront of innovation. First of all, it provides new appropriations, amounting to EUR 25 billion over ten years. In other words, on average, an additional EUR 500 million will increase the means of public research each year. The objective is to leverage private research to exceed the target of 3% of GDP by 2030. This requires strong mobilization and synergies between the public and the private sector. Our group welcomes this ambition. The inclusion of these credits in a multi-year trajectory will give visibility to our universities and research organizations, and will strengthen our attractiveness. In addition to these new appropriations, there is the significant effort of the Recovery Plan, which by 2021 has spent nearly 6.5 billion on higher education, research and innovation. It is therefore a two-tier mechanism. This is an immediate boost to research and we preserve employment: the recovery plan clearly stands at EUR 300 million in its favour. We must at all costs prevent the 2020 generation of graduates and doctors who were destined to start a research career from being sacrificed. We register in a long time, that of research, with essential issues. We must succeed in three major transitions: ecology, digital and working methods. To meet the ecological challenge, first of all, in the urgency of climate change and in view of the dangers our lifestyles pose to biodiversity and nature, new ways will have to be found to cope with and increase our resilience. Basic clean energy research – I am thinking in particular of hydrogen and renewable energies – will be decisive. Then there is the digital challenge, while the possibilities opened up by artificial intelligence, especially in health, are dizzying. At the same time, the increasing horizontalisation of our societies, together with the development of these new technologies, has led to regrettable drifts, of which I was speaking in committee last week: the manipulation of information and the discrediting of scientific speech. We have entered the age of suspicion and manipulation, sometimes at the highest summits of States. It is all the more vital for our democracies to place rationality, responsibility and scientific rigour at the heart of our societies. Finally, the challenge of labour change will have to be met. While the previous industrial revolutions had been a source of new jobs, this was not the case of the third industrial revolution, with the emergence of artificial intelligence, blockchain and big data. Reinventing a growth model by integrating these lasting changes will be our greatest challenge. The work in committee has been useful in enriching the bill and in clarifying its ambitions. We first raised our goals for the next decade. Investment in research will have to be above 3% of GDP, this is a strong requirement. Germany, our partner, has already set a new target: 3.5% of GDP. The commission also sought to provide assurances to the scientific community in order to increase readability and clarify the intentions of the Government. I welcome the commitment of the rapporteurs to this. Providing for a re-visit clause every three years will ensure that new credits actually translate into re-evaluations and are not simply compensation for inflation. Because the law of programming is also aimed at researchers themselves. The reality is that, for too long, we have neglected the salaries of scientific staff. By paying particular attention to new entrants, all staff will be gradually revalued. Personally, I will be particularly vigilant about section 22, which provides for orders to update relations between the State and private higher education institutions. In particular, the aim is to better supervise private educational institutions in order to prevent possible drifts, in the continuity of the Gatel law on non-contractual private. Our group obviously shares this ambition, which is fundamental to the fight against separatism. However, we believe it is essential that this recast be carried out in consultation with all the actors concerned, and we will defend amendments to include this principle in the law. September 21 is World Alzheimer's Day. It affects almost 800,000 people in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u127	Some of them are hit here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u128	Currently, and despite significant progress in its management, no treatment is available. In the face of the challenge of ageing in our country, better care and care for age-related diseases are key issues. The fight against Alzheimer's disease is just one example, but it is another reason for us to support your policy, which will allow us to invest in research and improve these public policies. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Taking Together group trusts you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u129	I thank the next speakers in advance for not exceeding their five-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u130	Thank you for your indulgence, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u131	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u132	Minister, at the question-and-answer session of the CNRS seminar on February 4, 2020, you said: "Research needs time, means and visibility: this is the whole purpose of this legislation. This beautiful statement could bring hope for an awareness on the part of the Government and a healthy change in the package, but when the bill is read, it's the cold shower! True to the model of start-up nation and short-term profitability, you continue to develop excessive competition – which you consider stimulating – as well as precariousness, and to organize the flight of public investment to the private sector. Your ideology burys public research even more, yet it is vital at a time when we face many societal, health and environmental challenges. You are announcing €25 billion for research by 2030, but only an additional €400 million is budgeted for the year 2021. What will happen after 2022? We do not know, because we have no certainty as to the policy to be pursued by future governments in this area. At your hearing in committee on 9 September, you stated that you did not hear a "major social conflict" with respect to the PBDA project. You also invited us to anchor ourselves in the real world and promote this bill. But behind the announcement effects and a misleading vocabulary is a liberal project that you are not assuming – which is a shame, because it would have the merit of clarifying the debate. There is no support for your project, as it does not meet the structural needs of research or the demands for improving the working conditions of staff. For example, a survey conducted by the RogueESR platform reveals that of the 2,500 respondents, all from the scientific sector, 81% reject the managerial and statutory part of the PBRA, and 85% believe that the precariousness of part of the staff affects the scientific production of the whole. The proliferation of precarious contracts, with the creation of CDI of a scientific mission, chairs of junior professors and doctoral contracts in private law, tends to gradually abolish the status of civil servant. You create competition between generations, even within the same generation. As for inequalities between women and men, nothing was being done to remedy them. Women are less likely than men to qualify as lecturers or university professors, while only 30 per cent of research directors are women. They are more numerous than men in the humanities – under-educated and poorly considered disciplines. They also publish much less than men in scientific journals. In fact, the higher the university hierarchy, the lower the representation of women. In addition, you proudly announce a considerable strengthening of the ANR budget and, above all, of the operation by call for projects. However, this mechanism of allocation of resources is problematic. Indeed, even if, as you say, the increase in the ANR budget will now make it possible to respond positively to 30% of applications for projects, this funding will benefit only a minority of institutions and only the most prestigious of them – we can already see that. The logic is the same with regard to the preciput granted by the ANR to those who won the calls for projects. Finally, this system limits scientific themes and reduces the freedom of researchers, which is not nothing. You also retain the research tax credit – CIR –, which is often called into question, including by the Court of Auditors. This fiscal niche of several billion euros per year should instead be reallocated to public service allocations, used for the payment of researchers' salaries and the operation of laboratories. With regard to the new evaluation modalities, Thierry Coulhon, adviser to the President of the Republic for higher education and research, declared in 2019 that the HCERES "should allow us to flee from any false appearance, any denial of reality, to face, with precision and objectivity, the quality of the training, research and governance that we produce". The CGT unions of higher education and research institutions deplore "a time-consuming and excessively costly assessment in terms of time and means [and] practiced exclusively by persons appointed and chosen outside of any principle of democracy". In addition, the evaluation does not distinguish between areas of research. It is based on the quantity and notes given to the laboratories, with the aim of improving the allocation to the best rated. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Far from learning from the health crisis, the PBDA strengthens a harmful competitiveness for scientific collaboration. We do not share your vision of the world after, deeply unequal and mortifying for public research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u133	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u134	Research is an adventure against the unknown, an exciting and demanding profession, but also a painful one where one constantly confronts one's ignorance. It is also an activity that bears in it the seed of future society. All the technology we have today, without exception, from high-speed trains to laptops, from new viticulture processes to synthetic images, was one day a research topic. At a time when the clouds are accumulating on our world, whether it is climate change, the collapse of biodiversity and natural resources, or the fragility of social cohesion, and at this hour of health crisis, it is the duty of our societies to invest more than ever in research. In the same way, at a time when nations are all competing for international research, including spectacular new arrivals, it is also our country's duty to honour its great tradition of research. While research is exciting, the lives of researchers have been bleak in recent years, particularly in the public sector. The purchasing power of a beginner French teacher-researcher has fallen: in 35 years, his remuneration has increased from 2.2 to 1.5 SMIC, which represents only two thirds of the average salary of the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – OECD. Purchasing power has declined, but administrative burdens have increased. Success rates for calls for projects are low. The precariousness has increased. Institutional changes have absorbed time and energy. Large private companies and international university giants have captured many of our most talented young people. There is an urgent need to give new horizons and perspectives to our emerging teachers-researchers. To remedy these problems, in an area where investment has been too low for too long, money – a lot of money – was first and foremost needed not only to improve careers, finance long-term jobs, provide more stability and flexibility, but also to grant more missions, to make research programmes more easily funded and better equipped, and to better support research laboratories and universities. With an annual budget increase of €5 billion, the PBDA finally ensures a significant improvement in research budgets. By comparison, in 2016, the abolition and subsequent restoration of EUR 250 million in appropriations was a national case, arbitrated directly by the Head of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u135	Thanks to the Finance Committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u136	Yes, thank you to the Finance Committee for its work at the time. Today, we are discussing a sum twenty times higher. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group welcomes this effort and will support it, while calling for it to last for seven years, not ten, as so many stakeholders have called for. The other aspects of the bill are very technical. In terms of human resources, its two main innovations have caused much debate in the research community. These are, first of all, the junior chairs – called "tenure tracks" in English: requested by some institutions to offer attractive positions to young researchers, these chairs are a springboard to becoming a university professor, or its equivalent. This attractive idea, however, runs counter to the habits of the community, particularly the brewing resulting from non-local recruitment. We are in favour of these positions, but only on the condition that they remain the exception and not the rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u137	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u138	That is why, while noting progress on this subject in committee, we will propose a reduction in the overall quantity. The CDIs are a second topic for discussion. The process of precarization is a bad one: these contracts are intended to replace the repeated CDSs which are intended to cover only imperfectly the needs of temporary contracts. Without a mystery, it is the fact that there are more permanent jobs to be distributed that will reduce the precariousness in this area – this is a major issue, which requires very strengthened budgets. Another strong expectation of the scientific research community is to get more time to carry out the projects. By increasing the success rates of calls for projects and drawing a positive path for CNRS delegations, the bill is making progress. It should be further strengthened through the Institut universitaire de France. The text lacks ambition on the relationship between science and society, a theme dear to our group. There has been some progress in this area in committee, but much remains to be done. Like science academies, we advocate earmarked budgets, both for scientific mediation and for participatory and off-wall sciences, whose importance and diversity are growing rapidly. With regard to scientific integrity, the advice of the scientist in politics, or the sharing and valorisation of science, a very great work remains to be done – a little in the law and a lot in the field. We will be able to make proposals to improve the text in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LT groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the examination of this text in a public sitting is a key step on a long road started 18 months ago when the Prime Minister entrusted a pre-figuration mission to a few parliamentarians and scientists. The path has been so long and sinuous that many of us have been concerned about its completion. At the end of the day, we're there. Soon we will be able to tell our young people tempted by the research: "Go ahead, your salary will be improved, your projects will be more often retained and your valuable reflection time better preserved. I am delighted for the research community and for the whole nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u139	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u140	The chronic under-investment suffered by the university translates into this unprecedented re-entry marked by the pandemic into a particularly difficult situation for students as well as for teachers-researchers. As the scientific and academic world mobilizes to face up to and fulfil its missions, the Government proposes a text that is completely inadequate with the context and demands of this community. This long-awaited research programming bill gives the feeling of a waste, because public research needs a massive and immediate investment, not a ten-year budget promise bill; far from combating the precariousness of many researchers, this text accentuates it; and because there is nothing in it to strengthen an open science, to the organization and access democratised. No real answer is given to the actors and actors of research, who demand sustainable funding for their laboratories, and who have been alerting for so many years to their degraded working conditions, to the growing precariousness and to the freedom of forced research. I was earlier, along with other Members of Parliament, alongside the research staff, mobilized before the National Assembly against a bill that enshrines supposedly effective competition between institutions and between laboratories, while the current situation reminds us of the need for cooperation and transparency. Thus, for humanity, the issue is not the profitability of the covid-19 vaccine for shareholders, but its effectiveness and access for all. Minister, your budget programming is insinuating. As the Council of State has noted, the vast majority of the effort is postponed beyond this quinquennium and over ten years; reducing this time is vital. The promised increase will not even achieve the target of spending the equivalent of 1% of GDP on public research. The bill proposes a substantial increase in RDA funding, i.e., call-for-project funding. Since 2012, this method of financing has gradually replaced recurrent appropriations. However, researchers are calling for a rebalancing of these funds in order to free up time, encourage hiring and give them the freedom to work on long-term, non-solvable research in the short term. Call-for-project funding must become the exception again, not the rule. This implies asking who decides the main directions of research: national representation, but also citizens must have a say alongside the actors in the research world. The precariousness of research workers is a scourge, it undermines women and men on a daily basis with unwavering but little recognition of their commitment. The PBDA accompanies this precariousness by not proposing massive tenure, but by inventing new contracts. The creation of the CDI of a scientific mission is an infringement of the very notion of CDI: to call " CDI" a contract limited to a mission, therefore by nature temporary, is an aberration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u141	It's an abuse of language! And an abuse of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u142	This new contract accentuates the precarisation because, unlike the CSD, it is not accompanied by any obligation of tenure or of precaution of precariousness. Our model suffers from too much reliance on precarious staff. Let us Titularize them, recognize their talents and contributions, do not deprive us of their expertise by forcing them to become ever more unstable! The mission CDI you are proposing is probably the quintessence of the new model that we reject. French research also does not need junior chair contracts, which will weaken the status of civil servant and the promotion of lecturers. Strengthening the attractiveness of our research around the world requires greater financial and professional stability and visibility for teams of researchers. This law must better devote the doctorate, better protect doctoral students and strengthen CIFRE rather than create new contracts that grant fewer rights. We also plead for an open science. The circulation of research and the participation of citizens are the subject of several amendments by our group – we hope to be heard on this point. The same applies to the strengthening of scientific integrity, and we will support the amendments to that effect. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the world of research is watching us, and it expects us to seriously propose to them a model of research with guaranteed credits and protective statutes, giving them the freedom to work to meet the challenges of humanity. This is not the way this law is taking, so much so, that's why the GDR Group opposes this PBDA and will forcefully bring the voice of research personnel, but also of students, who propose another project for our research and our university.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u143	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u144	As we discuss the multi-year research programming project for the years 2021 to 2030, I want to start by thinking for all of our country's researchers, thanking them for their commitment and altruism, and telling them that we really need them. I also have a thought for all French researchers who, over the years, have brought so much to Western civilization. Of the sixty-five Nobel Prizes awarded to French people to date, a large part concerned science – physics, chemistry, medicine and economics. The world would not be as it is now if there had not been these French researchers. They have always been driven by the desire to share their knowledge for the good of humanity rather than by the desire for short-term profits. Today, this bill deals with the financial support of research and, if that is not without importance, because we cannot do anything without means, we must also strive to reconcile soul and money, and ask ourselves about the meaning of science and the reasons for developing research. Otherwise, all the work we can do on the financial side will be meaningless, and we will not succeed in attracting to our country the foreign researchers we need so much. The question of the meaning of research must be raised in this bill. You said, Madam Minister, that science had no other purpose than to produce knowledge. Of course, but what do we do with this knowledge and why do we want to develop it? Do defence research projects have the same meaning as those in the field of health? Do the research projects on transhumanism, consisting of making man a robot with a human face, have as much meaning as those on our interactions with ecosystems? In a time when we need to refocus all of our public policies, it is important that we share a collective message about the meaning of our research – a meaning that I believe must reside in the desire to lead all humanity towards finally human development, that is, not only economic, but also social and environmental. This is more than ever the case during the major crises similar to the one we are currently going through, which can be an opportunity either to do more development or to fall back on ourselves. For my part, I hope that we will work to express very clearly the meaning of the public resources that our country wants to devote to research, with a view to human development. I would like to focus on the concept of research effectiveness: it is not enough to put a lot of resources, but it is necessary to know what they will be used for and whether they will be effective. It is HCERES's thinking that researchers must report their results not only to the government and parliament, but also to the general public – because, failing that, we risk seeing a growing rejection of science. The question of the well-being of researchers and students must also arise, because we will do nothing without them. While our group is pleased to note that this bill includes multi-year programming, this Parliament is already well advanced and it is likely that, in addition to ambitious long-term commitments, other commitments will be made in the near future. We also hope that the research reflections and reforms will be carried out in a consensual manner, with the assistance of all researchers in our country. I conclude by briefly referring to the current lack of career security, an issue on which we are critical, because we must not disappoint our researchers – nor our citizens, who want science to be at the service of development.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u145	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u146	In 2000, European leaders adopted a so-called Lisbon strategy to provide the European Union with the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. This strategy, which resulted in a failure, provided, in particular, that each country allocates 3% of its GDP to the research budget, where France spent only 2.16%. The Europe 2020 strategy has succeeded it, taking on the same objective in terms of the research budget and also achieving unsatisfactory results. If, in this House, we do not all share the same enthusiasm for this bill, we can at least agree on one observation. France made commitments 20 years ago, which none of the successive governments subsequently complied with. International pressure is growing, France is still stagnating around 2.2% and French research is falling behind. The commitment of the President of the Republic, the Government and our majority is clear: to restore resources, time and visibility to research. Strong research is an essential element in guaranteeing our sovereignty. To do this, we must first restore resources. The main objective of this law is to reinject €25 billion in research over ten years, thus increasing the research budget from €15 billion to €20 billion per year by 2030 – without taking into account the funding announced under the Recovery Plan, which will provide a real boost to this budgetary programming. We need to fund call-for-project research, because we need to be able to mobilize research on specific topics at specific times – the pandemic crisis we are currently experiencing is an outstanding example. We also need to fund basic research, and to invest in the basic sciences that allow us to increase our knowledge and knowledge about the world. It is a public good, it is also the soil that will allow the emergence of essential discoveries and technologies of rupture. This basic research is now mainly carried out by all public research institutions and universities. It is the duty of the State to maintain it, which it will do with the increase in the basic appropriations and the precipit put in place in the framework of the calls for projects. It is also human resources that must be given back to research, with the aim of recruiting more and above all better. Beyond the creation of 5200 scientific jobs under the state ceiling over ten years, almost 15,000 contract jobs will be created in public research institutions. We will also recruit better, with an unprecedented movement of salary upgrading for the benefit of all staff – more than 650 million euros – and the promise that, as of next year, no more research fellows or lecturers will be paid below two SMICs. This bill also creates two new recruitment tools available to institutions and organizations, in addition to traditional recruitments: the Junior Professor Chair and the Scientific Mission CDI, which will increase our attractiveness and secure engineering and technical jobs, respectively. Rescheduling time means having a long-term perspective, in order to ensure that research teams have levels of funding and the presence of staff over a long period of time, corresponding more to the time of research than to the time of a fiscal year. This doubles the funding rate for projects submitted to the NRA, so that the time spent by the teams in preparing their files is no longer in vain. This is to coordinate and provide flexibility to evaluations in order to reduce the need for teams. It also involves measures to simplify the day-to-day lives of researchers. Finally, there is a need to restore the visibility of research. Rarely have as many scientists been seen in the media, and rarely have researchers received as much attention from politicians, journalists and the public as during the period we are going through. Yet it has also revealed a great lack of awareness of the basic principles of scientific debate and, more generally, a lack of scientific culture among many of our fellow citizens. The transformation from a purely scientific and medical question into an ideological quarrel, where everyone thinks it is good to have an opinion and to take sides without having the knowledge necessary to do so, must question us, or even worry about us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] More broadly, it is the very notion of truth and objectivity that is put at risk by this culture of post-truth, false news and conspiracy theories. All too often, facts have less influence than calls for personal opinions to shape public opinion. To combat these scourges, the best remedies remain education and communication on science. This bill must help to infuse the scientific culture and bring researchers and their work closer to the rest of society – from citizens to the politicians we are, from associations to businesses to the media. Our country needs rationality, it needs science and its researchers, it needs resources, and that's what we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u147	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u148	French research needs visibility and deserves a multi-year programming law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u149	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u150	However, in order for such a law to be effective, it must fulfil at least two conditions: on the one hand, it must have clear objectives; on the other hand, to be consensual. However, the Government does not know where it is going: no strategic vision, no breath, no perspective intended to show that French research is more strategic than ever to build the future of our country and allow it to remain in the lead of the concert of nations. Where is the strategist state in this text? The Republican Group, like others in the Chamber, is the heir to the programme of the National Council of Resistance. The latter had been able to give a salutary impetus thanks to a State instiling a vision to build France of the future and relying on all its forces, including researchers. Unfortunately, with your text, we are far from all this, because it is above all a juxtaposition of technocratic measures. And that is little to say that it does not bring together, does not create a shared vision. It creates distrust when it should build trust. Experience has shown, however, that a programming law for which the Government has not previously reached a minimum level of consensus is doomed to failure even before it is implemented, since any political alternation may call it into question and the main actors concerned do not adhere to it. As you will have understood, the lack of a true strategic vision and the lack of consensus are likely to seriously challenge your bill. Unfortunately, the problems it poses do not end there. Thus, it is regrettable that programming takes place over ten years, not seven years, like all programming laws to date. In fact, almost all political groups stress this, as does the Council of State. Besides, one can doubt the sincerity of your promise to bring billions in 2027, 2028, 2029 and 2030 since it spans two quinquennats. As regards financing, there is therefore a problem of timing, but also of tempo. If we want to raise the bar for French research, we must put at its disposal important resources from now on. It is at the beginning of the programming, when you are at the controllers, that you must be bold; But you are doing the exact opposite, Madam Minister. In addition, the terms and conditions of funding are added. How much will the budget for Program 172 "Multidisciplinary Scientific and Technological Research" actually amount, once the effects of the special allocation account – CAS – "pensions" have been neutralized? These are, of course, state expenditure to pay for the retreats of researchers, but laboratories will never see these sums. In addition, you are announcing substantial increases in the budget, but we know that with the reform of pensions, the state will see its employer's burden decrease, i.e. its expenditure will be lower. For the scope of higher education and research, these reductions in contributions will be around €20 billion over the period 2021-2030. But you're only announcing $15 billion for research over the same period. It is therefore legitimate to ask whether this is not just a cup operation by which the state will succeed in redistribute less money to research than it will recover, since the difference is EUR 5 billion. Another major problem of your law is that you do not really care about the link between public and private research. By way of illustration, in the life sciences, the annual budget devoted to research by pharmaceutical manufacturers in France amounts to €4.5 billion, while public funding amounts to €47 million, or 1% of the total budget. It is this complementarity of public and private research that enables innovation to develop and patients to benefit from treatment. This issue is all the more strategic with the covid-19 pandemic. Finally, this text is based on a dichotomy between research and higher education, on which I have already alerted you in committee, Madam Minister. You are neglecting the essential role of higher education in general and of our universities in particular in research, a role that has greatly increased in recent decades, and that is a welcome one. The problem is that your text seems to completely ignore it. Another missed opportunity to finally put our universities at the heart of our research system, including in the law. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, you will understand that our group is extremely sceptical about this text, which we believe is more intended to make government communication than to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u151	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u152	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u153	The news – pandemic, apocalyptic sky over San Francisco, floods in the Gard – puts us more than ever before in the face of the scientific challenges of tomorrow. The emergency is here. To respond, we have a key lever: research and innovation. The Government is committed, through this programming law, to an unprecedented policy in favour of the research and higher education sector, rather drowsy in recent years as a result of chronic underinvestment leading to France's drop-out from other OECD countries. The trajectory is long, 2021-2030, and the effort will have to be, we know, lasting. In the face of the questions raised by this timetable, let us remember that research is a sector whose production takes time. A massive long-term reinvestment will not only fill current funding gaps, but also increase the competitiveness of French research. The budget allocated by the PBDA in the early years may seem insufficient, but it must be linked to the arrangements that will accompany it. The France Recovery Plan includes a research component, with an envelope of more than €6.5 billion, including €2.55 billion for the period 2021-2022, via the PIA4. The effort is therefore there, in line with the objective of increasing domestic R & D expenditure to at least 3% of GDP. In fact, the discussions in committee reinforced this ambition by setting a minimum target for the share of internal expenditure on research and development by administrations – DIRDA – in GDP. The expected effects of the PBRA will be multiple: to strengthen the attractiveness of scientific careers in France while the number of PhD students is decreasing; increase the remuneration and recruitment of all those who contribute to research; to give more visibility to the work of researchers in a worrying era of suspicion and conspiracy; enable more projects to achieve a higher rate of success at the ANR; secure research time by introducing flexibility in devices. Thus, in ten years, 1,400 junior professor chairs can be created, particularly in newly explored areas. At the same time, it is all the lecturers who will be recruited by the classical way, against 700 today. These positions are expected by our universities and laboratories to address the problem of insecurity and precarious careers. The introduction of tenure tracks seems to us to bring post-doctoral fellows into the labour market in better conditions and to allow them to find more easily jobs related to their specialty. The MODEM Group welcomes the adoption of the amendment increasing the share of posts available for this new recruitment route in institutions from 25% to 20%. This measure reaffirms our determination that tenure tracks are intended to remain secondary and optional channels of recruitment. However, our group will remain vigilant about maintaining a reasonable balance between long-term and contractual positions and will ensure that the introduction of conditional pre-recruitment contributes well to securing the status of post-doctoral fellows. As regards the increase of the precipitate to 40%, if we hear the criticisms that may have been made, we nevertheless argue that the meaning of such a measure is to support the projects and to compensate for the low rate of selection of the ANR's calls for projects, which will rise to 30% compared to around 16% today. The objective is also to support site policies, through the increase of precipitates, an essential issue for the upgrading of French research: thanks to the precipit, the smallest university research unit will de facto see its budget multiplied by 2.5. This is an effort of importance, probably unprecedented. Since the distribution of this precipitate is left to the institutions, however, we call for attention to be paid to the fact that the allocation of abundance does not create a context of competition between research institutions and units. Finally, we warmly welcome the opening of the possibility of a research stay for doctoral students and foreign researchers. This will be beneficial for the attractiveness of French research and may be very relevant for some work. We also consider it desirable to strengthen partnerships between the private and the public, as does section 24 with the creation of territorial health research committees – CTRS. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] MODEM welcomes the bill in its objectives. Beyond the financial and organizational issues discussed, the key role that ethics must play in tomorrow's research remains. "Science is a powerful tool. The use we make of it depends on the man, not the tool. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u154	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u155	For centuries, from ancient times to the present, science has nourished the knowledge of humanity, providing it with the tools necessary to explore and understand its environment, raise its consciousness and enable it to evolve. In this sense, research, like culture, requires creative sensitivity, sometimes trial and error, and, above all, intellectual freedom. As we face the greatest health catastrophe of our time and a movement of distrust of science is emerging, it is more necessary than ever to give the means to the search to meet the challenges of today and tomorrow, and to reaffirm the principles that underpin it, including scientific integrity. These issues are crucial, and yet, Minister, your programming law is not up to the urgency that French research faces. This is why the Socialist and related group proposes an alternative project that will actually achieve the ambitions displayed. Let's go back to the state of research today. There was unanimous agreement that France was late. It invests less than 2.3% of its GDP in research and only 0.7% in public research, while targets of 3% and 1% were set for 2010 – levels that OECD counterparts have met or exceeded for some. In addition, it has 20% fewer researchers and 50% fewer support staff than Germany. The expectations shared by the entire scientific community, the minister, were known: they were about a massive investment in French research, particularly public research. Yet this law of programming limits it to illusion. Illusion because it is not 25 billion, but only 5 billion that the Government is planning, and still without taking into account inflation or the current crisis. Illusion also because the proposed trajectory does not even achieve the 1% of GDP target for public research. Illusion again because the spread over ten years only postpones the effort and makes the objective uncertain. Illusion, finally, because no precise budget framework is set, apart from the additional billion for the ANR: no means for universities and their students, little for laboratories, increases in pay in trompe-l'oeil, non-permanent, without re-evaluation of the index point, yet so expected. This bill, which devotes only two sections to programming, is ultimately only a pretext for coming to reform the statutes that underpin our French research. When, in the other 23 articles, you talk about attractiveness, what we hear is less integrity, less collaborative work, and more competition. The increasing number of recruitment routes for contract staff, including the new tenure tracks and the CDI de mission scientifique, strongly calls into question the status of teachers-researchers and the French conception of the public service. Under the guise of facilitating hiring, the Government is organizing precariousness, which will put more pressure on women. On the other hand, the facilitation of passages between public and private, without safeguards, further distances us from the notions of ethics and scientific independence. Minister, your bill is not consistent with your ambitions: the members of the Socialist and related groups are proposing alternative programming. My colleague and group president Valérie Rabault detailed how we would achieve the 1% of GDP target for public research by 2027. Our counter-project would provide our researchers with the means and working conditions they need. We propose to free up time for research by reducing the number of teaching hours for teachers-researchers by 25%, offset by the creation of 3,000 teaching-researcher positions per year between 2021 and 2025. We wish to adapt the staffing of support and support staff to those of researchers. We want to increase salaries to achieve a double SMIC salary at the time of hiring and advance careers; grant each young researcher a start-up grant of EUR 10000 per year over three years; ensure that all doctoral students receive at least 1.5 SMICs per month; to put an end to situations of precariousness among individual contractors in higher education. Finally, we recommend investing in and modernizing research facilities and universities to meet the challenges of knowledge sharing. [[Mrs Valérie Rabault and Mrs Muriel Ressiguier applaud]] François Rabelais wrote: "Science without conscience is only the ruin of the soul". Whether in the economic, environmental, social or health fields, the times are more than difficult: let us not let the spirit of French research deteriorate, nor our scientific sovereignty deteriorate. Let us not disappoint the scientific and academic community. Let us look at the links between science and society; Let us invest in a true scientific culture: this is a crucial democratic issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u156	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u157	First of all, I would like to welcome the Government's willingness to introduce a research programming bill and to invest in progress. When we talk about research, we talk about the future and hope. Members of the IDU and independent group will always be on the side of science, scientific progress. While your efforts are commendable, expected and necessary, our group is wondering about the ambitions of this bill. First of all, in view of your budgetary programming: although research is taking place over a long period of time, we are asking ourselves questions about the choice of a 10-year programme; We regret, above all, that most of the investment is concentrated in the last few years. In addition, your recovery plan seems to be investing a significant amount in research for the next two years, which we can welcome, because the needs in this area require an urgent response. However, as we discuss research funding for the next ten years, we still do not know how the money from this plan will be used.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u158	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u159	For its part, our group supports tighter programming over seven years, with a greater effort in the first few years, so that the fine ambitions contained in this bill are not subject to political or economic hazards. On the other hand, we have heard many criticisms about the increase in the RNA budget, which would take place at the expense of more traditional research. For our part, we join in the moderate voices that invite you to distribute funding more equitably between these two types of research. This rebalancing is all the more desirable as the recovery plan foresees an allocation of 400 million for the ANR over the next two years. As a result, by 2021, it will manage a large amount of public money. It therefore seems essential that it transmit a report on the use of its funding and on the progress of the objectives contained in this bill, both in terms of the rates of projects financed and of precipitates. In the interests of transparency, this report should be presented to Parliament. In any case, we are making a proposal to that effect. Beyond programming, this text sets out a set of guidelines: we will return to the importance of environmental, medical or social innovations, which are widely supported by our group. I would also like us to pay particular attention to artistic research, of which there is little talk, but which must find its place in this debate. Similarly, we would like to recall here that our group will monitor and continue to monitor the resources allocated to research on paediatric cancers. It is also important to stress the development of scientific culture and critical thinking from an early age – at school, of course, but also through public audiovisual programmes. Finally, Madam Minister, we cannot talk about research without talking about university. We regret that the subject of precariousness is not more present in this text. I have accepted your commitments, made in committee, concerning overtime or individual contractors: we will remain vigilant on these points. This year, our universities welcome many more students, sometimes or often, in conditions made problematic by the health crisis. Let us not forget that in order to have good researchers tomorrow, students must first and foremost be able to learn in good conditions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you can see, we are approaching this text in a rather favourable way, with criticism, but also with proposals and requests. We hope to be able to work constructively to forge a solid research for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u160	The general discussion is closed. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u161	I would like, in a few words, to go back to the interventions that have just taken place. It is important to put rationality and scientific rigour at the heart of our societies. It is also important that society work much more in interaction with the world of research: this goal, as I indicated, is at the centre of the bill. The question has been raised about the need to work better with private higher education: I take this opportunity to say how much we are actually planning to better recognize its place in France, and to ensure that all private higher education institutions are not tainted by the actions of some, which undermine the reputation of all. Ms. Ressiguier, it was then Prime Minister Édouard Philippe who, in entrusting me with the drafting of the bill, spoke of giving "time, means and visibility" to research. I would like to take this opportunity to confirm this, and I invite you once again to disseminate this information: firstly, when jobs under the State ceiling are increased by 5200 posts, public employment is not destroyed; Secondly, the Precipitate of the ANR is intended to finance laboratories and establishments for the non-winner teams. After all, repetition is a form of pedagogy. Mr. Villani, thank you for recognizing that research is no less competitive than cooperative, and for defending, perhaps better than I can do, the CDI scientific mission. I would like to say to Camille, to Adrien, to Pierre, these master's graduates to whom we have only been able to offer a CDD of fifteen months based on non-existent statutes, while funding exists to pay them, that this text will allow them to benefit from a CDI of mission, for a much longer duration, and a recognized status. With a CDD, indeed, it is not easy to convince a lessor. Mrs Buffet, the Council of State considers in its opinion that nothing in this bill undermines budgetary sincerity, even if the duration of the programming is unusual. I would like to repeat this, because I would not again like the text published by the Council of State to be misinterpreted. On the other hand, you are right to say that we must not rest everything on the ANR; That is why the basic budget of the laboratories is also increasing as of next year, and will rise in power. In the end, with a total of 1.66 billion out of 20 billion, the RNA will represent just 10% of the investment effort in research. It is therefore of course that not everything should be based on it, and I can only join you on this point. Mr Pancher, knowledge is neither good nor evil: it is knowledge. What can be problematic is the use of it; and it is a matter of political, non-scientific decisions. The objective of this text is essential: to enable our country to recover from the production of knowledge. Mr Hetzel, we can agree that, in the past, there have been great laws that had nothing consensual, and ministerial visions misunderstood. I was also a little surprised to hear your colleague Mr Reiss refer to French excellence as a negative judgment. I repeat, research is a matter of competition as well as cooperation: no one will contest it. The term "coopetition" was even invented. I also share your vision of the role of universities in research; This is why, in the long term, an additional 1.7 billion out of the 5 billion planned will be allocated to budget programme 150, i.e. to universities. Article 2 of Title I further states that this figure is understood to be "other than a contribution from Title II to the special-purpose pension account". Ms. Victory, trial error and serendipity are the principles that lead us to believe that we need to refinance the scientific policies of laboratories directly, as close as possible to where knowledge emerges. In general, research irrigates higher education; A text that gives resources to all, to researchers as well as to teachers-researchers, doctoral students and post-doctoral fellows, obviously concerns university research. The law of 8 March 2018 on the orientation and success of students has thus led to a significant increase in the university budget, to which will be added the effects of this research programming bill. There is no point in trying to divide scientists according to whether they belong to a university or a research organization. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, I would like to say that when I see how closely you all here understand the mechanisms and needs of research, I have no doubt that this presidential majority and those that will succeed it in 2022 and then in 2027 will ensure the strengthening of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u162	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u163	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u164	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u165	The first speaker on Rule 1 is Mr Sébastien Nadot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u166	This proposed multi-year research programming bill, which was expected, provides substantial budget responses and addresses the issue of the upgrading of researchers. These are important points, which need to be stressed, but which cannot mask the shortcomings of the text before us. Thus, the ten-year period provided for in Article 1 is highly problematic, especially since the fiscal trajectory foresees an absurd concentration of the budgetary effort over the last three years, that is, from 2028 to 2030 – as if we could afford the luxury of waiting for 2030! All research actors call on the Government to review this period. It is a question of the sincerity of the law and, with it, of the word of the Government and of the presidential majority. Insinuately, the bill is also based on a 3% horizon of GDP spent on research, which has already been exceeded, since Germany is aiming at a target of 3.5% of its GDP. This discrepancy between the stated desire to rearm French research and the reality of the bill is probably due in part to your conception of a research that is essentially reduced to its socio-economic usefulness, too obsessed with Shanghai's ranking and a little too designed by calls for projects that need to present the results that we intend to find. There is something wrong with this bill, as if it were dealing with the details and, apart from the budgetary aspects, forgotten the essential: those that carry 80% of French research, that is, the university and its research teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u167	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u168	[[Marie-George Buffet and Valérie Rabault applaud]] It is not too late to give human thickness to this text, especially given the precariousness of women and their small numbers in the world of research. It is surprising that nothing in this bill – not even in the attached report – is working to remedy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u169	Mr. Francis Chouat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u170	Who would have imagined, a year ago, among those – of whom I am, with Philippe Berta, Cédric Villani and others – who contributed to the preparation of this law, that it would also be powerfully projected at the heart of all the health, climate, industrial, European and cultural challenges that we must face at the same time? The fact that French research is stalled, everyone does. The urgency of catching up, everyone agrees. But deciding to act, with this law of an ambition never equalled, with the plan of revival, itself unprecedented, with the will of France to increase its game in the Horizon Europe programme and with the affirmation of the need to put research back at the heart of the contracts of the State-region plan, it is now that the Government proposes it concretely to the national representation and to the nation, after fifteen years of dangerous stagnation. I enthusiastically share, Madam Minister, your willingness to set the scientific and social objective of this law as early as Article 1e, by means of the rich attached report that we are going to discuss, and I particularly stress, like five eminent professors at the Collège de France, the urgency of creating an ideological and societal environment that is more conducive to knowledge, training, vital issues of the future and to mobilizing citizens for controlled progress. As we look at this law, too many campaigns are being carried out to refuse vaccines, to spread the worst obscurantist and conspiracy theories and to make believe that the danger that the planet is running would be progress itself, which is only making a way through the work of knowledge. The credibility of this law and its effectiveness will, of course, go through the credible and assessed financial commitments that it entails, but they will go as far as the confidence that the French people, and first of all their youth, will find in the passion for discovery at the service of social and human progress. We must ensure that the attached report, which is not well-named, is carried out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u171	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u172	We come to the amendments and start with those relating to the text of Article 1. Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 37, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u173	Although a number of the findings and objectives set out in the attached report are correct, one can only regret the mismatch between the wishes expressed in this report and the provisions contained in the bill. As a result, the fiscal trajectory has increased the effort essentially from 2023, after the current mandate. In terms of human resources, while the report rightly highlights the exceptional quality of research personnel, the bill, far from putting an end to their difficulties, only strengthens a competitive vision of research. That is why we propose the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u175	Mrs Buffet, I hear your concern about the allocation of the budget in view of the budgetary path. Moreover, during all the hearings, the demand was expressed for a budgetary shock which would take place in the first years, in order to quickly catch up with the delay which had been created by previous governments. The draft law foresees an increase in the research budget compared to 2020 – from €400 million in 2021, €800 million in 2022 and €1.2 billion in 2023 – the plan to boost this budget by an additional €6.5 billion in total: €2.4 billion under the PIA4, the fourth investment programme for the future, for the research and innovation component of the acceleration strategies, €3.1 billion under the PIA4 over three years for the structural financing of ESRI ecosystems – higher education, research and innovation – and the support for innovation involving ESRI actors, €300 million to preserve employment in the field of research and development, €400 million to accelerate the rise of the ANR, €35 million to develop hybridisation and university digital equipment and €180 million to create places in higher education. Despite this avalanche of figures, it was worth pointing out that, by 2021, we will add 6.5 billion euros to the budgetary path envisaged in the PBDA, which is of an immediate nature. As far as human resources are concerned, I would like to point out that the law is in the process of being upgraded to an unprecedented level: almost 2.5 billion euros will be used to significantly increase the allowances of all staff and 5200 additional scientific jobs will be financed. Finally, the basic funding of laboratories will be increased by 10% by 2022, or 450 million euros per year of additional resources. It is therefore paradoxical to want to delete Article 1 on the sole ground that there is a mismatch between the means and the ambitions displayed – to which you subscribe. I invite everyone to vote on the mechanism proposed in the funding plan. Opinion against, therefore, the deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u176	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u177	It has three objectives. The first is to reduce the period 2021-2030 to 2021-2027, i.e. to seven years. Indeed, spanning two quinquennats is neither serious nor reasonable. The second objective is to include in the text that, by 2027, domestic research and development expenditure will reach 3% of GDP. The third is to ensure that at least 1% of GDP is spent on public research. If we do not clearly include these three objectives in the text, it will remain to be displayed. The Council of State's analysis, moreover, favours a shorter period than the one foreseen in the text. Too long, it would take a real risk of insinuity – the Council of State remains, it is true, measured on this point. I also hope that we will not have to wait for the 2021 finance bill to know how the Government intends to finance the provisions of the bill. I cannot prevent myself from considering the sums that he will recover from unspent employer contributions for his staff. However, they will exceed the amount to be injected by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u178	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u179	The committee, which rejected your amendment, reinforced the ambition of the financial trajectory by stating that the 3% of GDP target was a minimum, of which at least 1% would be government expenditure. With regard to the duration of programming, it responds to a political choice: the text favours long time, with means provided until 2030, in order to remain consistent with the UN's 2030 Agenda, which sets important sustainable development goals – objectives that Frédéric Reiss, moreover, defends. In this way, we seek to direct research towards its realization. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u180	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u181	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u182	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u183	Mr rapporteur, I identify two problems. First of all, ten-year programming commits only your majority, without committing the following, predictable or not. Then it is now that the need for a shock for research is felt. However, programming only increased in power from 2023 onwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u184	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u185	The Government must tell us clearly why it chose the 2030 date. Never before has a programming law examined in this House covered ten years. Military programming laws also require very long-term investments: the Rafale has not been created in three years! But military programming laws never cover ten years. While the different programming laws, whatever their subject matter, usually run over a period of four to seven years, for the first time, we are faced with a period of ten years. You need to shed some light on this. If, again, the text improved the incomes of teachers-researchers and carried out recruitments over the first five years, and spread heavy programs, such as research on gravitational waves, over ten years, we could understand that. However, this is not the case: the revalorisation of the incomes of teachers-researchers will not begin until after 2025. Madam Minister, we do not understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u186	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u187	The question of duration can only disturb us, with regard to the sincerity of funding. Another question, however, is: Why are the IAP4, which we are promised, and the stimulus plan not included in the programming bill? Mr. Hetzel's question is the right one: where will the money come from? That money only arrives in mass at the end of the period is curious: we do politics, we know what commitments are worth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u188	Yours, maybe!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u189	Moreover, what about the money we are promised for tomorrow in the framework of a PIA4, while the credits of the PIA3 have not yet been all consumed? You have to enlighten us on these different points.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u190	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u191	There are two issues: duration – why ten years? – and that of tempo: it is still incredible that the major efforts will be made from 2028 to 2030, whereas it is today that the question of research arises with a very strong acuity. I repeat my question: why do you consider that the most important efforts should be postponed to the end of the period, when they should be made immediately? Your choice conflicts with your own argument, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u192	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u193	Your commitment is only 400 million: the rest is pure and simple speculation. I repeat: you commit only 400 million and it will certainly not be you who will have to commit to the rest. In fact, therefore, the financing of the text is insinuating. What message do you send to the world of research with such an unserious bill, which is not even built? How do you want the research staff to get involved behind you? Not only does the text go in the way the researchers want, but they also question your real goals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u194	One more word.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u195	We have the impression that you are dumping yourself on a hypothetical future. I repeat: this is not serious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u196	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u197	This was recalled: the United Nations 2030 Agenda, which sets sustainable development goals, was built in 2015. At the time, no one was shocked by a visibility of fifteen years, simply because the research takes place over a long period of time. As of next year, this bill devotes EUR 500 million to the financing of new research projects. However, we need to ensure that these projects will be funded over ten years. This EUR 500 million, consumed as early as 2021, will therefore be used to feed long-term research programmes. In 2022, an additional EUR 500 million will finance new programmes that will enjoy the same visibility over time. It is important to understand that research – on gravitational waves, as in many other fields – needs long time. Our laboratories need to be assured that funding for their work will be guaranteed for more than a year: in terms of research, ten years represent a reasonable period of time. As for the recovery plan, its objective is to give a boost over the first two years, because the period is crucial and we must, more than ever, invest to prepare for the future. This is what we are doing by providing an additional €6.5 billion, with long-term programming as the basis for our trust in research. Stop pretending that the upgrades are only planned at the end of the programming. They start next year, with an additional 1000 euros for all lecturers, an additional 1300 euros for all research staff, not to mention ITRF – research and training engineers and technicians – of category C, technical assistants for research and training. We are currently working on a memorandum of understanding: a memorandum of understanding, ladies and gentlemen, commits not a government but the state. This is my understanding of sincerity in politics. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[Same movements]] When I arrived at the ministry, I found debts that I had not contracted: well, the French State paid them; Memoranda of understanding that I had not signed: well, the French State has kept the commitments contained therein. If the National Assembly passes a ten-year programming law, I wait for the deputies who will undo it by declaring to France: "We do not believe in French research. Not one of you said it on those benches, not one! Who will be there to say it? I'm waiting to see him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u198	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 103, 6, 55, 184, 258 and 447, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 6, 55, 184, 258 and 447 are identical. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u199	I have the feeling that in the area of communication the Government has adopted the Coué method: we have a new, historic text; It's the alignment of the planets. You have come to explain to us, with a democratic go, that the future Members of Parliament will not be able to undo this programming law, but that is not the way it is, Madam Minister! Multi-annual laws or contracts of objectives and means – COM – defeated by governments or majorities, we know of them under each legislature! Do not come to explain that Members still have the hand to ensure that the commitments made are met. I would like to live in such a republic; Unfortunately, the Fifth Republic, as it was practised from its very beginning and as it is now strengthened, does not allow us to do so. The amendment aims to reduce the duration of programming to five years, in order to avoid dilution of commitments. For if we are all for lasting commitments, your text, for the moment, makes them rhyme with distant promises. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Moreover, the bill ignores the concrete functioning of laboratories: even if the success rate of RNA calls for projects is increased, which is indeed very low, the laboratories will not benefit from 100% funding in this context. Laboratories today cannot function properly because of underfunding. You can always tell us about an alignment of the planets, we do not observe it. Your project will not have the lifespan of a planet anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u200	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u201	I'm waiting to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u202	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u203	It also aims to reduce the duration of the period from ten to seven years – until 2027. Minister, you have stated that you are committed to 2021 and 2022 – close dates. However, in the Committee on Finance, for the past three years, we have seen you cancel credits. In addition, each year, program managers are more or less spending, Bercy asking them to tighten the screw. We refuse to be the fools of the budget display, as we know that there is always a gap between the budgets voted and their implementation. This gap, of course, may be legitimate, but it may also prove excessive, especially in research, which requires investment. In addition, for large organizations, it is not uncommon for the Director General of Research to send notes asking them to control their payroll. There are therefore fairly large gaps between the employment ceiling and the number of jobs actually created. You announced just now 5,000 additional jobs: either, but what I'm interested in is whether the payroll is going to follow! If that's not the case, we'll be facing the display again. We can do a lot of things in political communication, but we would like to see actions; For now, we haven't really seen one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u204	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u205	Scalded cat sucks cold water! For years, we have been informed of increases in the research budget, and all majorities are responsible: in 2000, we were told that the research budget would reach 3% of GDP in 2010; We didn't get them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u206	It's not our fault!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u207	This year, the ANR's appropriations are, to a few million, equivalent to those of 2005. Ladies and gentlemen, as you come to the end of your term of office, we would obviously be much more reassured if we could commit ourselves to a shorter programming law. The appropriations for payment of the budgetary programmes set out in Article 2 increase considerably, but mainly at the end of the period. We are not against your efforts, but a shorter programming period would make them more credible. That is why we propose to reduce it to seven years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u208	I call Mr Sebastien Nadot to support Amendment No. 184.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u209	It is interesting to project over ten years, but also to look a little backwards. For the record, in 2016 the share of GDP devoted to research and development was 2.22%. This figure was 2.20% in 2017 and 2018; In 2019 and 2020, it should be – these are projections because the exact share has not yet been consolidated – by 2.25% and 2.30% respectively, i.e. only 0.1% more. The Government has therefore made no effort to conduct research in the first three years of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u210	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u211	Given this past, how can we convince the research community that a ten-year commitment is sincere? It's really a problem. You tell us, minister, that research is a long time. We fully agree! But the funding of research is part of the urgency. There is a great difference between the practice of research and the question of its funding. One final question seems essential to me. You talk a lot about the global competition, but with the fiscal trajectory you are proposing, we are not giving the means to French research to enter this competition, because the real catch-up starts too late, in 2028, 2029 and 2030. The programming period must therefore be shortened. We propose that it be for the years 2021 to 2027 – a time that we believe is reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u212	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 258.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u213	It also aims to reduce the multi-annual programming period from ten to seven years, for several reasons. First of all, to better stick to the European agenda, whose Horizon Europe programme will run from 2021 to 2027. It is a question of allowing France to maintain a funding logic in line with the European calendar – even if I understand, Mr rapporteur, that you are relying on the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations. Secondly, to prevent the PPR from suffering too much political uncertainty, which could undermine its ambition. We are confident that, thanks to this change, every researcher in our country will be reassured and will know that he can count on ambitious and realistic programming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u214	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 447.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u215	Madam Minister, you told us: "If the National Assembly passes a ten-year programming law, I wait for the MPs who will undo it." For my part, I expect to see if next Monday, when the budget is presented for 2021, your commitments will be up to what you are announcing today. What we are voting with this bill is a trajectory. So it only engages you because in ten years you will no longer be there to tell us whether or not it has been respected. On the other hand, last June, when the bill was being considered, you were there. And you cancelled EUR 105.9 million in the budget for higher education and research, because the funds had not been spent in 2019. You didn't think it was right to postpone them to 2020. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] As a reminder, you have cancelled €25 million for student life, €14 million for higher education and university research, €57.9 million for research and higher education in economic and industrial matters, and €4 million for higher education and agricultural research. All this, Madam Minister, is you alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u216	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u217	So you have cancelled more than €105 million of research commitment authorizations in the settlement law, and you are telling us that over the next ten years we would dare to amend the multi-annual programming law that you are proposing today? Don't reverse the responsibilities! Today, it is you who are on the bench of ministers, so it is up to you to sanctify the research budget. Next Monday, your colleague Bruno Le Maire will introduce the finance bill for 2021, and we will see if what you are telling us today translates into the budget. I hope you won your arbitrations; I wish you well, I hope you do, especially for research. But I note that last June you agreed, in a way, that Bercy would cut your appropriations by EUR 100 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u219	On this set of amendments, the opinion will again be unfavourable. To stick to the time of science – we are often accused of not taking account of its lag in relation to the time of politics – the programming law requires a long-term financial commitment. [[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] When we asked researchers if they preferred to receive funding over seven or ten years, they opted for this second option. That seems to me to be quite logical! They also call for a particularly important effort in the early years. As I mentioned earlier, this will be the subject of the recovery plan and the IAP4. The full expectations of the research community and your requests for French excellence are therefore met.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u220	Not at all! The researchers are outside protesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u221	Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u222	We'll scream!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u223	He's been rejected a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u224	I call Mr Chouat to support Amendment No. 640.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u225	It aims to clarify that the explicit objective of the draft law is to increase domestic R & D spending to at least 3% of GDP over the next decade, in particular to strengthen France's place in the Europe of research and innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u227	Mr Chouat, dear Francis, it will always be important and necessary to recall France's place in Europe. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u228	Long live Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u229	Amendments Nos 553 and 554 by Mrs Sonia Krimi are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u230	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 328.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u231	With this amendment, we want to increase the share of internal expenditure on research and development by administrations and businesses – DIRD – devoted to public research, to 1.5% of GDP. First of all, we recall that GDP is not always the most relevant indicator. Indeed, in a crisis like the one we are experiencing today, if GDP falls by almost 10%, the impact can be serious, both for research and for other sectors. In 2016, DIRD accounted for 2.2% of GDP, of which only 0.78% was spent on DIRDA, while business research and development spending – DIRDE – was 1.44%. However, the report annexed to the bill states that "the evolution of business research and development spending over the next few years is of course less directly manageable by the state. For its part, the EESC believes that the objective of raising the GRDIs to 3% of GDP by 2030 is "all the less achievable as the Government relies on a supposed leverage effect of public spending on private spending. However, it is noted that this did not work, as the effort of public spending that contributed to R&D did not change the share of private funding. On the contrary, this has produced a boon effect and, for the greater pleasure of the private sector, the public has borne an even greater share of research funding. Public research suffers from chronic underinvestment. The public effort has continued to decline, and it is time to restore its place. The production and dissemination of scientific knowledge must be entrusted to the public sector, in the service of the general interest, by increasing the expenditure on public research to 1.5% of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u233	Mr President, I believe that in committee you did not hear me well. Can you hear me this time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u234	[[Smile]] Excuse me? Who are you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u235	We have already specified that DIRDA should reach at least 1% of GDP. This threshold seems to us more realistic than the one you are proposing, and I will give an unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u236	We come to the amendments on the text of the annexed report. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 10 and 559. I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u237	So Amendment No. 10...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u238	[[Smile]] Are you moved because your amendment is the same as Mrs Buffet's?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u239	The amendment is intended to delete paragraph 1 of the report, because if the Government mentions a consultation, the actors concerned indicate that it did not really take place. You said earlier, Madam Minister, that it was necessary to be a little scientific: I think the least I can do would be to remain factual. Objectively, given the way things have happened, we cannot talk about a concertation. Therefore, the subparagraph should be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u240	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 559.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u241	Madam Minister, you welcomed the vote of the CNESER earlier. However, we must remember the conditions under which the vote took place, which were widely denounced: the text was transmitted only four days before the vote, the organisation's amendments were not studied individually, the work – which could have been spread over two days – lasted twenty-one hours in a row and ended at six forty-five, and several unions refused to participate or left along the way, considering that the conditions of the social dialogue were very deteriorated. I therefore believe that paragraph 1 does not really correspond to the reality of the facts, as researchers have told us this afternoon before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u242	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u243	Unfavorable opinion. There has been good consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u244	You will give us your definition of the word "concertation"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u246	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Three working groups, involving parliamentarians, who worked actively, hearing more than 300 people; a web platform that has received 900 contributions from more than half of the research laboratories in our country; the CNESER, which I attended from start to finish and during which we discussed with the trade union organisations; a Memorandum of Understanding under development; hundreds of trips and discussions in general meeting with all staff on different sites... Of course, just now, three deputies and researchers present before the National Assembly claimed that they were not satisfied with what we were proposing – you published a photograph illustrating this scene. But tens of thousands of other researchers are not in front of the National Assembly and thank us for increasing their salaries next year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u247	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u248	The expression in this first subparagraph is "closely associated". But if there is one thing that can be contested, it is this close association of actors! All you have to do is talk to the presidents of universities and the principals of the major schools; They bear witness to this and consider that this bill, which primarily concerns research, has not been discussed with higher education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u249	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u250	I'd like the minister to tell us who she's been talking to. Indeed, all those whom we have met, during hearings or among our knowledge – research is passionate about many of us on these benches – have told us that the concertation has been epsilonesque. Who did you talk to, Madam Minister? I would add that your interlocutors, with whom we also exchanged information, told us that you refused to decide, make commitments and make the necessary choices. In 1946, Jean Monnet, the first commissioner of the Plan, had succeeded in reaching a consensus between the Gaullists and the Communists – certainly not on all the subjects, but on five of them, including steel and agriculture – to advance the country. If you consider that research deserves a real commitment, why didn't you create a consensus? Why didn't you bring together parliamentarians of all the sensitivities and all the researchers to organise a real concertation? Perhaps you could then have said that this consultation had really taken place.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u251	I call Mr Chouat to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u252	The amendment incorporates a major proposal from Working Group 3, "Partnership Research and Innovation", to prepare the bill. France does not yet have an innovation strategy to position itself as a leading nation by 2030-2035, particularly in terms of its ability to respond to major societal challenges. From this perspective, starting from the fact that the strategic framing of public research cannot be the sole responsibility of scientific actors or actors acting separately and inconsistently, we have proposed the creation of a strategic unit placed with the Prime Minister. Its role would be to inform political decision-making on how to respond to the major societal priority challenges. Each of these major issues would correspond to a strategic roadmap validated once a year and then declined into operational programs coordinated by a major societal challenge agency. It is imperative, in my view, to affirm an ambition – to position France as a world leader – and to propose a vision – the multi-annual strategic framing – and to provide resources – for example through the planned strengthening of French participation in Horizon Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u253	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u254	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u255	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u256	Mr Chouat, you wish to retain the assertion, from the first lines of the attached report, of a critical need for reinvestment in research. Of course, we share that view. However, you propose to mention, on the same level, a need for framing. You will understand that I hesitate to follow you in this direction because, as I have always said, no one can predict where the knowledge necessary to solve a problem will come from. Setting priorities is one thing. We are working on this, and this will be done in the context of defining the priority research programmes of the IAP4, as was done in the IAP3. On the other hand, I'm really not comfortable with the idea of setting up research in advance. As I indicated earlier, I would not know in what great challenge to integrate a priori the observation of gravitational waves, to take an example among dozens of others. In the absence of its withdrawal, the Government will issue a negative opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u257	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u258	The Socialist and Related Group will vote for this amendment tabled by the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance. Minister, you pointed out two things in your speech. First, you said you didn't know. That's what we say: you don't set a course, you don't want to take it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u259	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u260	Secondly, you have just pointed out that you have listened to many people in the framework of the consultation, without us knowing who it is. In this amendment, however, it is the conclusions of a working group which Mr Chouat has repeated; they deserve to be heard and supported. We will therefore vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u261	Mr. Francis Chouat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u262	I will not investigate, like Mrs Rabault, a trial in the absence of agreement. I'm a witness that exactly the opposite happened. The term scoping can be removed if it raises a semantic problem. But I would like to repeat this: the very complex organization of our public research – which we have not chosen to question, because we are focusing on the essentials – the interpenetration of public and partnership research, and the major national, European and global challenges that we are facing, all this gives full power to the multi-year programming bill that the finance bills will make possible – we will discuss this again during the examination of section 2. If, like the Minister, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, France is to benefit more from the major European programmes and to have a greater impact on them, it is essential that it know how to choose, in a revised and multi-annual manner, the major subjects on which it needs to be a true European and global leader.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u263	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u264	With this in mind, it is undoubtedly necessary to maintain the foundation of broad-spectrum basic research, but also to define, like other European countries, the strengths of France, how it can contribute something to Europe and how it must organize itself, vertically, horizontally and Europeanly, in order to enhance its research assets and ensure that everyone can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u265	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u266	The purpose of this amendment is to initiate a reflection; We have already launched it in committee and believe that the public sitting is also appropriate. We are wondering about the objective of devoting 3% of GDP to research, including 1% for public research, which has been a consensus since the Lisbon strategy was defined. With this amendment, which proposes to delete paragraph 4, we want to question this target. Such figures can demonstrate ambition, set a course, but do not guarantee a sufficient budget, especially in the event of a significant drop in GDP, as is the case this year. Research expenditure can certainly be indexed to GDP while at the same time sanctifying it or setting a minimum level; It is indeed one of the solutions. But even beyond the drastic decline in GDP recorded this year, the indexation of the research budget to a growth rate amounts to directly correlating growth and research. For the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, research not only creates growth in the sense measured by GDP, but is an investment for the future. This fact calls into question the principle of indexation. Moreover, as Communist MEPs, we also question the benchmark, GDP, which does not measure the well-being and well-being of the population, the quality of relations between individuals or even the dynamics of research in a country. This question that we are asking ourselves today will arise even more acutely in the future, since the limits of the planet may also call into question growth. As you mentioned earlier with respect to sustainable development, the minister must also ask these questions. Here are the reasons why we wanted to discuss this issue with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u267	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u268	Clarifications were made on these issues in committee, and progress was made. As for the indicator of GDP, it is an international standard that we are not going to question here – even if I think, like you, it would be interesting to work collectively on gross domestic happiness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u269	[[Smile]] What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u270	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u271	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u272	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u273	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u274	We are told that the ambition has been set by the President of the Republic at 3% of GDP, but some European countries are much bolder! Our German neighbours have already indicated that they want to spend 3.5% of GDP on research by 2030 at the latest. Could you clarify, Madam Minister, the reasons why the target was set at 3%? Some foreign countries have already reached 4 per cent. We see the weakness of your reasoning: you have not set strategic guidelines, there is no strategist state, and you are only agitating a kind of mistigri that has, in reality, few theoretical foundations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u275	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u276	I'll be very fast since everything has just been said. Taking GDP as an indicator is tantamount to accepting a significant decline in the research budget. Indeed, if an eight-point increase is planned for 2021, it will follow a ten-point decrease this year, a loss of two points in total. We will have to explain by what wise calculations you intend to take the €25 billion target on the horizon you set yourself. What can be your predictions with such a yo-yo effect?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u277	Do you have a crystal ball?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u278	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-09-21-E2007.u279	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the research programming bill for the years 2021 to 2030. The meeting is adjourned.
