ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u1	The next item is the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, environmental justice and specialised criminal justice (No. 3694).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u2	Mrs Naïma Moutchou, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u3	Today we come to the conclusion of the parliamentary review of the draft law on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, environmental justice and specialised criminal justice. This text was adopted by the Senate on 3 March and by the National Assembly just a week ago; This original chronology was imposed on us by the health crisis, but it was good because we were able to work in detail and with respect for each other's positions. That explains the speed of our agreement with senators: we had made almost all of their positions, and they accepted our own proposals for evolution. The unanimity of the Joint Joint Committee attests to the common will of our two assemblies to move forward, and I would like to commend the quality of the work of senators, in particular that of my counterpart, the rapporteur Philippe Bonnecarrère. This convergence of views is also the result of the work carried out by the two chambers, which have greatly enriched the initial text of the Government while respecting the foundations of the draft law. Under technical inputs, it allows great progress in three main areas and, without going into detail, I will recall the main provisions of the text. The first articles of the draft law incorporate into our law the European Public Prosecutor's Office, its prosecutor and its delegated prosecutors, who will be responsible for combating fraud against the European Union's financial interests. It is a historic step forward that the creation of this Prosecutor's Office, the result of fifteen years of negotiations between Member States, is taking us a major step forward in the construction of a full European judicial area. Justice pushes Europe forward, and all those who love Europe rejoice. I hope that it will advance our own justice, particularly on the ever-present question of the independence of the French prosecutor's office. Whether it is the competence of the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office or that of the national financial prosecutor's office, the provisions on specialized criminal justice, which deputies and senators, together, have strengthened, have raised no particular objections: these amendments, mainly ad hoc, will allow for a concrete improvement of the litigation. We have also taken advantage of the review of this text to better arm environmental justice since, of the 16 additional articles adopted at first reading in the Assembly, eight relate to environmental law: we are thus giving our country new tools to better protect it and to better punish environmental damage through the creation of a specialized jurisdiction per region with trained magistrates, the granting of judicial police prerogatives to environmental inspectors and the extension of the judicial convention of public interest – CJIP – to the environment, all of which the Senate has welcomed. The draft law also corrects various imperfections in the Code of Criminal Procedure; I will not go back to that. The only point of discussion in the Joint Joint Committee was the decision of the National Assembly to abolish the ban on public transport. But honourable senators, listening to our arguments, have been convinced – I would point out that only members of the Republicans in the House had opposed it, but that did not prevent, in the end, a unanimous vote in the CMP. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is therefore logical, ladies and gentlemen, that I would ask you to approve the conclusions of this CMP. I will conclude by thanking you for the quality of the work carried out in common, in the majority as well as in the opposition, as I thank the Chair of the Committee on Laws, my two fellow rapporteurs, respectively for their opinion and for their observation, my colleague Didier Paris, the spokesperson for my group on the text, the administrators who accompanied me and, of course, the keeper of the seals for his constructive approach to the whole text. This collective work honours each and every one of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u4	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u5	We have met again after the Joint Joint Committee unanimously adopted the draft law on the European Public Prosecutor's Office and on specialised criminal justice. We know that the subjects covered by this text are dear to this majority and to this Government, and I would like to pay tribute here to my predecessor, Nicole Belloubet, who had initiated this reform with the Senate last February. The measures contained in this text are particularly dear to the Ministry of Justice. You will therefore understand, ladies and gentlemen, my real pleasure at seeing the unanimity of this CMP. I believe that it is essential for us to be able to overcome the divides when the issues at stake, in this case Europe and the environment, require both themes at the heart of this piece of legislation and at the heart of our debates. The latter, in fact, takes date for the future. It will enable our judicial institution to welcome within it an innovative and operational structure for the direct pursuit of public action throughout the territory of the twenty-two Member States of the Union participating in the scheme. The Senate had, a few years ago, taken out a yellow card to oppose the European Commission's proposal to create a European Public Prosecutor's Office: the unanimity achieved since then shows the quality of the work done on this dossier, which should make it possible to be more effective in combating fraud against the European Union budget. I am glad, of course, that the National Assembly has accepted the provisions of the European part of the bill while improving their consistency on various important points: I am thinking in particular of the question of the social contributions of the delegated European prosecutors. Specialized criminal justice provisions significantly enhance the effectiveness and consistency of our legal arsenal in the fight against terrorism, organized crime and economic and financial crime. I would like to thank the National Assembly for enriching these provisions in order, inter alia, to enable the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office and all the prosecutors who so require to do so to benefit from specialized assistants in the field of terrorism or the prevention of terrorism. Strengthening the effectiveness of environmental justice is the third major focus of this bill. Thanks to its innovations, such as the CJIP and the specialised courts, justice will be better able to meet the expectations of our citizens in this area. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] [[Same movements]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to pay tribute to the remarkable work done by your rapporteur, Naïma Moutchou, but also by Mr Didier Paris, because they have made it possible to improve substantially the text, and their involvement is nothing to do with the agreement reached in the CMP. I would also like to thank the draftsmen for their opinions and comments, namely, Souad Zitouni and Liliana Tanguy, respectively, for their understanding of the text in all its aspects. So these are the strong commitments of the five-year period that we have, together, defended through this text: the commitment for Europe, this ideal which carries in it the answers to the challenges of today and tomorrow, and the ecological commitment, linked to the urgency of acting to preserve our environment by setting in motion all our institutions. With regard to the various provisions of Title III, I would like to thank the National Assembly both for the technical improvements it has made and for agreeing to adopt provisions which the Government has proposed by way of amendment, in particular on the rehabilitation of persons sentenced to death or on the guarantee provided for in the procedure for the enforcement of sentences in favour of adults who are the subject of a protective measure. I am pleased that these additions were also accepted in the Joint Joint Committee. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds again]] [[Laughs]] Today, we arrive at the end of a journey of almost two decades, but above all, we mark the beginning of a new stage in European integration... Thank you, Mr Lassalle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u6	You're welcome!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u7	[[Same movement]] Together, I said, we are marking the beginning of a new stage in the construction of Europe, that of a Europe that now has
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u8	Mr. Lassalle, come on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u9	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] ...enhanced capacity to enforce its right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u10	[[Smile]] I am jealous, dear colleague of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, because you applaud the minister much more than I do; That's why I'm making a point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u11	Are you president or not? Is he a minister or not? I can applaud whoever I want!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u12	I'm kidding, my dear colleague. Why piss you off like that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u13	In the general debate, Mrs Cécile Untermaier spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u14	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] [[Smile]] As far as its part on the European Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned, the bill before us for several weeks is the result of more than twenty years of work. I am thinking today of Christiane Taubira and Nicole Belloubet – without forgetting you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, for you are not for nothing in the outcome of this text. And obviously, if I had forgotten it, I would have been reminded of it. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] This is a good institutional step forward. Clearly, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is the useful institution for European credits to combat tax fraud. This new jurisdiction, integrated into our national system, raises the principle of the independence of the public prosecutor's office and, more than ever, the question of the status of the French public prosecutor's office. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] The European Public Prosecutor's Office would be the vehicle for a set of standards and values that could be inspired by certain Member States of the European Union because we are concerned about their judicial system: I am thinking in particular of Poland or Hungary. Although these States are not involved in the process we are discussing, it is appropriate to hope that a virtuous circle will be created. Regarding specialised justice and more specifically environmental criminal justice, we are dealing with the result of indigent judicial activity, in connection with an insufficient budget but also – which explains in part – with a society that has delayed putting environmental issues at the heart of its concerns. Specialized justice is presented as a first response to the complexity of environmental law. I call on you to be vigilant so that it is not coveted by lobbies, because we know their ability to organize around such identified poles. I repeat, vigilance is necessary. The judicial agreement in the public interest set out in the bill has been at the centre of many debates. It has demonstrated its effectiveness and pragmatism in tax matters. We have put it in place within the framework of the Act of 9 December 2016 on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life, known as Sapin 2. It is not a question of catching up with tax fraud, but of redressing the damage to the common good of the environment, which is therefore irreversible. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] The CJIP deserved several adaptations in order to remove its opaque character from a situation that deserved transparency and pedagogy. We regret that the approved environmental protection associations, whose expertise could have informed the magistrate in advance of the negotiation, are not heard by the prosecutor before this negotiation begins. A decree would have allowed it. The publicity of the conclusions of the CJIP, proposed by an amendment by the Socialist and related groups, would have been a way of replacing a hearing that did not take place: this proposal met a desire for pedagogy and prevention. [[Same movement]] The creation of specialized justice is a first step. However, we remain on our hunger, given the climate emergency and the concerns of the new generations. [[Same movement]] The report submitted to the Keeper of the Seals in 2019 "A Justice for the Environment", which was inspired by this first piece of legislation, contains very timely proposals that several of our amendments take up. It is one that should thrive: it aims to create a special court injunction in environmental matters, a valuable tool for suspending the risks of serious environmental damage. We are working on it and will propose it to you in a future text. [[Same movement]] Finally, article 12, on regulated professions, is the article of abandonment. This is a renunciation, because we had a completely different ambition, when we passed the law, known as the Macron law, of 6 August 2015 for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities, than that of the introduction of compulsory voluntary contributions. It is also a renunciation because, on the basis of the Government's proposal, we considered it essential that the scheme be the subject of a regulation setting out, together with the professions, the basic rules of this operation in order to protect them from anti-competitive consequences. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] The majority should have supported the law of the former Minister of Economy, now President of the Republic, but it removed, thus modifying the text of the Senate, the only entry reserved for the Autorité de la concurrence. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the rapporteur of the text in the Senate, Mr. Philippe Bonnecarrère. I remember a report from the financial inspectorate that had not pleased the professions concerned and commissioned the 2015 text. It does not seem to me that renunciation is the best way to avoid a new trauma. [[Same movement]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Overall, the text has our support. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is a step forward both in the fight against tax fraud and in the alignment of judicial systems in the European states. The specialization of justice is a strong signal of our willingness to deal with environmental damage. We hope that these are the beginnings of environmental justice, and that we will continue to do so; The citizens, especially the younger generations, are waiting for us to be at this meeting. I shall end with the words of António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations: "The climate emergency is a race we're losing, but it's a race we can still win. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u15	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u16	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the agreement reached this week in the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the European Public Prosecutor's Office and specialised criminal justice. This text, both necessary and bold, is composed of two main parts. The first concerns the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the consequent adaptation of French law. The second part deals with specialized criminal justice, particularly in environmental matters. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] This text is first of all necessary because the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office calls for the adaptation of national law in the light of this innovation. Our criminal procedure must therefore evolve. The Action Together Group is committed to greater protection of the interests of the European Union. We know that it can only be effective when effective tools are entrusted to a European legal body. The fluidity of capital and financial flows requires that fraud and other illegal activities affecting the Union's financial interests be combated at European level. The European Commission regularly points to the figures of financial crime, whether they relate to transnational fraud – which causes Member States to lose €50 billion in VAT revenue – or to the embezzlement of European funds, which are estimated to amount to €700 million. Our fellow citizens are waiting for an active response to put an end to these abuses: we must prove to them that Europe is an opening, but it also allows the protection of the financial interests of the Member States. [[Same movement]] This text is then bold in what it brings to environmental justice. Once the bill has been enacted, each court of appeal in France will have a specialized court for environmental damage. The objective, clear, is to end the poor judicialization of environmental damage. Given the unprecedented commitments made under the Paris Agreement, we must adapt our legal arsenal to these new challenges. This true innovation contributes to this. The extension of the scope of application of the judicial convention in the public interest to violations of environmental law is also a step forward. The effectiveness of the CJIPs, introduced into our law by the Sapin 2 law in order to fight corruption, is no longer to be proved. The mechanism is not only effective, but also deterrent. We therefore welcome its extension. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] Our group wanted to support, at first reading, an amendment to allow the Public Prosecutor's Office, as part of the conditional classification measures, to propose to the offender the continuation of an internship within an environmental structure. Unfortunately, the amendment in question had been declared inadmissible. However, we reiterate our commitment to better integrate pedagogy into the arsenal of alternative measures to prosecution, in order to raise ecological awareness. It is through experience and direct confrontation with difficulties that the urgent need to respect our environment can be tested. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Action Together group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u17	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u18	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] [[Same movements]] Today we endorse the unanimous agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law establishing a European Public Prosecutor's Office and on specialised criminal justice, in particular environmental justice. The IDU and independent group is very much in favour of the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office, which we have been calling for for several years. Indeed, we hope that a European judicial area will be established that concerns not only the fight against fraud against the Union's financial interests, as in this text, but also other areas – I am thinking in particular of organised crime and terrorism. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] [[Smile]] For our part, we have never changed on the subject, but the idea is increasingly needed in the current times. We all know perfectly well that national borders arrest police officers and judges, but they have never arrested criminals and criminals. That is why we call on the Government and the President of the Republic to work with all European countries in their conviction. We are creating the European Public Prosecutor's Office today, but we can collectively regret that it is only a matter of enhanced cooperation, because not all of the 27 Member States are members of the judicial area in question. They have to be. This must complement an intelligence space and police fight against crime... Expressing yourself is not easy every day! [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] The IDU and independent group has done its work of conviction and coherence with regard to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, in particular with regard to delegated prosecutors. We are discussing the role of the latter, both prosecutors and investigating judges. We have heard the coherence desired by the Government and retained by the CMP. We will align ourselves even if we would have wished to bring some nuances in order to respect the French judicial tradition. [[Same movement]] Specialized criminal justice, particularly in environmental matters, is the second component of the bill. It is becoming harder with the authors of major ecological damage and we are following this evolution. We even propose to go further in the compensation of financial damage...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor for a moment for an update. Mr Lassalle, my dear Jean, what you are doing is not nice to the speaker. I see that Mr. Brindeau is disturbed...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u20	I need a little more, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u21	There are moments to applaud. You will have every opportunity to do so at the end of each intervention. Let us let the speakers speak before expressing our approval or disapproval with applause or words.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u22	Mr President, no one has a monopoly on applause! It's not up to you to tell me when to applaud. I have the same rights and duties as you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u23	Of course we have the same rights, I ask you only to let Mr.Brindeau express himself, out of respect for him: that is the meaning of my speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u24	We're not here to be in favour of the speaker! We're not in the Soviet Union!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u25	You're not here to disrupt the speaker either. The floor is for Mr Brindeau, and for him alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u26	Thank you, Mr President – although it is always a pleasure to be applauded, my dear Jean. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] [[Same movement]] I'll be right back. We also proposed that, within the framework of the JIPs, the legal person should not have the choice between financial compensation and compensation for ecological damage, but should be obliged to both. We are generally in agreement with the objectives, even though we have indicated the need to take some precautions, in agreement with the rapporteur, so that natural persons can also benefit from some kind of ICJ when they are part of a procedure in which a legal person appears. The solution has not been found to date, but it will be proposed, we are sure, because it will allow for a form of parallelism to be observed in the legal regulation of this type of case. [[Smile and applause on several benches. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] The IDU and independent group will be happy to vote for the text resulting from the final work of the CMP, with the renewed applause of Mr Jean Lassalle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u27	Thank you, Mr. Brindeau. You deserve to be applauded by everyone. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u28	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] The La France insoumée group will oppose the text, in line with the position adopted at first reading. Thank you, Mr. Lassalle, for applause of our constancy. [[Same movement]] Not that we would not like Europe! We have nothing against her, quite the contrary. I often walk around Europe, I have family there. We are still glad that Europe exists and that we can move about freely. But I am very critical of the European institutions. It is even an understatement because, in reality, I disapprove of them. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] In some cases, the relevance of the European level could be questioned. Of course, when it comes to infringements of the European Union budget and European regulation, there is a form of relevance. But what about the new tasks that both will want to be assigned to the European Public Prosecutor's Office? I am thinking, for example, of what was proposed by our colleagues on the right in the fight against terrorism. In this respect, the European geographical area is not a relevant area since the problem goes far beyond Europe's borders. [[Same movement]] The central issue is judicial cooperation and its organization. The proposed model – which has been discussed in European bodies – is presented as a new stage in European integration, but 99.9% of our citizens are not aware of it, it is rather a pity. How can we continue to move forward without any far-reaching democratic debate on the justice we want, in the country...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u29	He doesn't exist anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u30	...and in Europe? [[Same movement]] The way in which the future European Public Prosecutor's Office will operate poses a real problem in terms of sovereignty. I regret the fact that the European Public Prosecutor delegated to France is placed in the position of secondment, a statutory position which does not provide sufficient guarantees of independence. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] In addition, within the European Public Prosecutor's Office, a college will deal with criminal policy. It is no longer an executive, nor even a legislator, who will define a criminal policy, but a committee of European prosecutors appointed by the Member States – and not by the parliaments. You say innovation that tends to think that the prosecution will be disconnected from any form of legitimacy, that's the whole problem. With regard to justice, pure and perfect independence must not exist: it is always necessary to know who is independent, in relation to what and within what framework. [[Same movement]] I am in favour of dependence on the political decisions that are taken and, ultimately, on the only sovereign we know: the French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u31	Well done, but he doesn't exist anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u32	Beyond the European Public Prosecutor's Office – which will not trigger new cases after it has been set up: it is rather other public prosecutors who will lose them – comes the subject of specialized justice, which you decline especially in environmental matters. [[Same movement]] This is not an organizational problem that would be resolved by introducing new specialized jurisdictions: they already exist, are under-supported and fail to process their files. I am not sure that specialization can solve problems. On the other hand, you deplore the fact that too few offences are being prosecuted. If they are more to be prosecuted, they need to be further characterized, which requires staff to conduct investigations and gather evidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u33	Bolloré!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u34	However, we have not discussed the establishment of an environmental police service within the national police force; We have just mentioned a few new environmental responsibilities that some inspectors would be entrusted with. It will be necessary to cross paths in order to provide future inspectors of the various administrations which contribute to the fight against environmental offences and offences with judicial qualifications in this field; Otherwise, we will miss something by stopping in the middle of the way. [[Same movement]] Finally, you are putting in place the judicial convention in the public interest, the so-called CJIP, against which we had already expressed our disagreement during the examination of the anti-fraud bill. This convention is no trouble: it is a negotiation! However, justice must function in a full and complete manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u35	It's working!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u36	[[Same movement]] I therefore urge colleagues not to vote in favour of this text. Let us take a date on other subjects and on other texts in order to carry out a more comprehensive reflection on the public prosecutor's office in France and on the environmental issue, rather than to proceed with small touches: we will thus avoid that everyone sees nothing but fire.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u37	They'll do it anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u38	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u39	As we said last week, the Libertés et Territoires Group supports the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Even if it will request to be evaluated over time, it has provided evidence of its effectiveness in practice. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] The criminal response to financial crimes affecting the interests of the European Union must be both strengthened and homogenised: the European Public Prosecutor's Office will allow it. This new mechanism appears to be relatively balanced between the prosecutor in Luxembourg and the delegated European prosecutors – whose prerogatives have been extended – in each of the twenty-two Member States. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] In France, for example, the European Delegated Prosecutor will assume the role of the investigating judge in placing the accused under judicial supervision, but he will not be able to take measures on his own that violate freedoms, such as house arrest with electronic surveillance or pre-trial detention. Our group is very committed to the preservation of individual freedoms, so it was essential that the text should provide a very clear framework for the field of action of the delegated European prosecutors. [[Same movement]] Nevertheless, the eternal question of the independence of the French prosecutors themselves arises in watermarks, a question which we know you are committed to resolving, Mr. The provisions on environmental justice remain timid and are, for the most part, referred to other legislative vehicles. [[Same movement]] We have noted the statements made by the minister of ecological transition – whose convictions I do not question – about the creation of a crime of ecocide in French law, even though Mr. keeper of seals has somewhat calmed the ardour in this matter. [[Same movement]] The President of the Republic is now talking about a constitutional referendum on the environment. Article 1 of the Constitution states that "the Republic shall ensure the preservation of biodiversity, the environment and the fight against climate change". According to the President, this provision would be much more legally binding than the environmental charter already mentioned in the Constitution. Let us, for the time being, doubt the sincerity – or rather the effectiveness – of this political announcement when we know how little effectiveness the introduction of the principle of decentralized organisation of the Republic has had in this same article 1. [[Same movement]] However, let us keep in mind the positive aspects of this text: the appointment of a court specialized in environmental litigation in each of the courts of appeal is a step forward, but hope that greater familiarity and judicial expertise in the environmental field will develop. On the other hand, the budgetary resources, for the time being, do not follow, since only the existing resources are being redeployed. In addition, we have been attentive to the discussions concerning the establishment of the judicial convention in the public interest in environmental matters. It will be necessary to ensure that this procedure – which, in absolute terms, can be quick and effective by immediately putting the hand to the hands of the infringing company – does not release the main polluters...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u40	Bolloré, Drahi!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u41	...of their responsibilities. [[Same movement]] With regard to measures relating to the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, the Joint Joint Committee rightly maintained the amendment put forward by our group in committee: at the request of the National Bar Council, the obviously far too broad concept of crimes and offences against the fundamental interests of the nation was thus excluded. [[Same movement]] On the question of the prerogatives of the judicial police officers in the context of their task of collecting and processing genetic or digital fingerprints, as well as for access to the various video protection systems without the authorization of the judge, we deplore once again the regularization of so-called common practices which risk, if we do not take care of them, the infringement of individual freedoms. In the area of justice, we prefer the strengthening of human and budgetary resources and the number of judges, prosecutors and clerks, rather than the implementation of provisions often presented as simplifications in order to reduce the workload. We note with satisfaction, however, that the CMP has maintained the deletion of Article 11, which was intended to introduce a new supplementary penalty, for a maximum period of three years, for the prohibition of appearing in one or more public transport networks. This article had nothing to do with the form and substance of such a text. Finally, I regret once again that, for the time being, the issue of grace has not been addressed, while the text deals with various provisions related to crime and financial crime. Indeed, the measure allowing the State to entrust to associations of general interest the management of buildings of which it became the owner during criminal seizure proceedings – pending the final adoption of the bill, originally presented by Sarah El Haïry, aimed at improving the cash flow of the associations – deserved an acceleration in the framework of this legislative vehicle. We missed the check, but the debate will certainly continue. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] However, despite significant reservations, the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u42	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u43	I must admit that the discussions surrounding this bill have not been simple. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] They have not been on the form, firstly, because the text contains a wide range of subjects, ranging from the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office to the induction of the judicial convention of public interest in environmental matters at national level. This has profoundly affected the intelligibility of our discussions. This mix of genres is all the more questionable, minister, as the bill that comes out of the work of the civic convention, in which you plan to devote the crime of ecocide, will be examined, if the timetable is respected, here at the beginning of the year. It would have been entirely relevant to include measures relating to environmental law. [[Same movement]] The discussions were not simple either on the substance, because we were once again captive to the binary vision of the parliamentary majority. Thus, to hear you, there would be on the one hand the wicked sovereignists eager for nationalism (Same movement) – thank you for them, my dear colleague – and, on the other hand, the supporters of the European construction, spiritual children of Jean Monnet and Robert Schuman. [[Same movement]] It was not the importance of the subject, such Manichaean words would make the Communist Members of Parliament smile as we are. Since the referendum on the Maastricht Treaty, we have called for the establishment of a Europe of peoples and cooperation between States, especially in the area of justice and the fight against abusive fiscal and financial practices; Since Maastricht we have called for Europe to be the continent of fraternity and the so-called social well-being, whereas the opposite is the case; Since Maastricht, we demand that the European Union become a democratic area of respect for popular sovereignty. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] Unfortunately, we are far from it and it is not the induction of the European Public Prosecutor's Office that will deny us. Indeed, if we approve of the objective of ensuring the financial interests of the Union assigned to it, how can we be satisfied with the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office, already provided for in the 2005 Constitutional Treaty, which the French have mostly rejected by referendum? [[Same movement]] How can we resolve to open the door to a federalist institution when justice must be done in the name of the French people? We do not want it, without it making us dreadful retrograde. Like millions of citizens, we believe that European ambition must not simply be limited to the dogmas imposed by Brussels ordoliberalism, as must the protection of our environment not be subject to the great economic and financial interests of the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u44	Drahi, Bolloré!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u45	Unfortunately, we are embarking on this perilous path with the establishment, in Article 8, of the CJIP, an acronym for exceptional justice for environmental crimes, allowing companies that pollute, not to be judged, but to buy their impunity and avoid a proper trial. Ecologically harmful, this financialization of justice is also profoundly contrary to our republican principles since, in the absence of judicial debate and public corrections hearings, justice loses its value of exemplaryness, relegating the objective of seeking truth to the background. [[MM. Ugo Bernalicis and Jean Lassalle applaud]] In this sense, I can only share the words of François Molins when he says that the progress of alternatives to prosecution has been made at the expense of the trial. However, he adds, "criminal trials in this area have on the one hand promoted public awareness of the stakes of nature conservation, by their public and media character [], and on the other hand have contributed to the construction of environmental law through major legal advances". None of this will be possible tomorrow with the CJIP, and the big polluters will have every opportunity to provide in advance for all the environmental harm they could commit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u46	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u47	[[MM. Ugo Bernalicis and Jean Lassalle applaud again]] We reject these developments, which seem to us to be contrary to the interests of the people and the environment, and that is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u48	Mr Didier Paris has the floor, and we will listen wisely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u49	Don't worry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u50	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I trust you, Mr. Lassalle. You will have the opportunity to applause him or to reproach him at the end of his speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u51	The Joint Joint Committee has been unanimous, which could lead us to consider it to be an ordinary text; But that is not the case. Indeed, we are living a moment that can be described as historical. It will not be the only one, not the first or the last, but it is a reality. I have the feeling, moreover, that the CMP unanimously voted in favour of the text itself as well as of Europe, as it is true that it refers to the European question. We are in a context in which everyone recognizes that it is quite special, that in which European solidarity is tested through the crisis of the Covid -19, but also through the need for a European recovery plan that we must be able to benefit from.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u52	There's not one who does the same thing as the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u53	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] [[Same movement]] This is also the context of the departure of the United Kingdom from our common European area, in which six countries have not agreed to sign this text on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and I am of course thinking first and foremost of Hungary and Poland, nation-states that do not want Europe to carry out as many checks as this on their own territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u54	We're listening to the speaker, Mr. Lassalle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u55	It's a debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u56	No, it's not a debate. We are now in the general discussion, not the discussion of the amendments – or at least the Government's amendment. Let us let the speakers speak, even if we are in deep disagreement with them, which is my case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u57	All I'm doing is applause the speakers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u58	It's a very good exercise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u59	Not just Mr Lassalle, you destabilize them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u60	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u61	Let Mr. Paris go to the end of his speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u62	Thank you, Mr President, but I am not sure that I am destabilized by our excellent colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u63	Mr. Paris is an experienced man...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u64	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds again]] [[Same movement]] In reality, it is a unique, new object, that of European integration through the establishment of a perfectly assumed and perfectly controlled independence: the independence of European prosecutors, the independence in our territories of delegated prosecutors. Judgment shall be pronounced in each country in accordance with the rules of each country, without prejudice to national solidarity and with scrupulous respect for individual freedoms. Europe defends itself, through this text, and defends its budget. The least we can do is to defend Europe. [[Same movement]] Environmental criminal justice is an important second pillar – there are others, of course, and I will not mention them all. Environmental criminal justice is very present in the text, through the CJIP, which is undoubtedly a deterrent tool that we do not have to deprive ourselves of. As far as regional environmental poles are concerned, we are all very satisfied, Minister, that they have been extended to civil matters. Indeed, it would have been a major disadvantage not to do so – which we would have dragged like a ball. The text therefore brings full coherence in this respect. [[Same movement]] To examine the draft law well, it is realized that it is a text of perspective as well as of adaptation of the provisions to national law: perspective towards a more independent justice system, in particular with regard to prosecutors' offices; the prospect of the continuation of the European integration process, since the case of the European Public Prosecutor's Office can be used as an example in other areas, as the President of the Republic has pointed out on several occasions; It was also mentioned earlier in the debate on the environment. The most recent remarks made by the President of the Republic confirm this in full. [[Same movement]] In short, it is a vision text, a text of the future, which we unanimously welcome. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Jean Lassalle also applauds]] Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Naïma Moutchou, who has done a remarkable job and always in the most pleasant conditions. I also thank the two rapporteurs for their comments and opinions, Liliana Tanguy for the Committee on European Affairs and Souad Zitouni for the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning. I would then like to congratulate you and thank you, Minister. There is indeed little doubt that the text is the fruit of a co-construction, but you have been, with your services, of perfect availability to us and constant concern that has never been denied. It's a great thing. Finally, I thank all our colleagues, especially perhaps Cécile Untermaier, with whom we also exchanged a lot...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u65	Are the flowers on promotion today?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u66	Mr Sebastien Huyghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u67	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] We have met this afternoon in December to adopt the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee which met yesterday in the Senate on the draft law on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, environmental justice and specialised criminal justice. This text, first considered earlier this year by our fellow senators, arrived in the Assembly with 15 articles. It comes out by having almost doubled in volume. Our colleagues Philippe Gosselin and Julien Aubert, who spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party during the examination in committee or in the sitting, have each, in their own way, shown the whole side of the text and the difficulty of achieving consistency. The multiplication of articles, if necessary, does not help in this regard. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] The European Public Prosecutor's Office is an ancient history, which is thus materialised after many years. You know that this subject raises real questions within our group. It aims to combat attacks on the European Union's financial interests for tens of billions of euros. A first European body will therefore have its own judicial powers, which raises a number of problems relating to national sovereignty. However, who could be opposed to the fight against infringements of the European Union's financial interests, in which budget each taxpayer participates? [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] Nevertheless, the questions raised by our colleague Julien Aubert during the debates in the sitting did not find an answer. I remind you, minister, of the content. The Minister of Justice or the Attorney General will not be able to issue general instructions on criminal conduct on this matter to the delegated prosecutor. The Government will therefore no longer have full control over the administration within the meaning of article 20 of the Constitution, since part of our criminal policy will no longer be decided in Paris. I am told that the judge will be independent, but independent of whom, of what political power? Who's going to decide criminal policy? In whose name are we going to do justice?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u68	We must return it in the name of the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u69	Members of the Republican Group would like to point out that at this stage they are not in favour of extending these powers, as some members of the majority have wished, to include terrorism issues in particular. We hope that the Prosecutor's Office will work within the scope of the powers assigned to it. [[Same movement]] We also regret that the working language of this new European institution is English, whereas no country of which English is the official language is a member! Ireland, the only country in the European Union whose English is officially the language, did not wish to join this institution. The minister explained this and we take note of France's efforts to try to remedy this unfortunate trend in the European Union. [[Same movement]] Members of the Republican Group also bear in mind that the European Public Prosecutor's Office comes directly from Article 86 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which Nicolas Sarkozy negotiated and had adopted when he was President of the Republic. As far as the specialized courts are concerned, the Republican Group has no particular objection to the provisions concerning financial crime or the fight against terrorism. Some are very welcome and allow for fluidizing and clarifying the work of these bodies. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] Specialisation in environmental appeal courses may be relevant, but we recall that we do not want this to lead, in the short term, to the creation of an ecocide offence. We have taken note of the commitments made by the Minister on this subject during the debates. However, it should be noted that this specialization is nevertheless presented by the Government as a first step towards the creation of this crime of ecocide. The creation of this new offence aimed at punishing serious environmental damage follows a proposal of the Citizen's Convention for the Climate, but does not take it back completely since it had pronounced itself for the creation of a crime of ecocide! [[Same movement]] The offence would be created in connection with the discussion of the bill to translate the proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention into law. It is true that the 150 treaties drawn by lot are particularly active in pushing their proposals and the President of the Republic and the Government are seeking to give them guarantees to calm their disappointment. When your creature escapes you... [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] Members of the Republican Group wish to reiterate their position on the matter. At this stage, it seems to us that the French justice system is sufficiently equipped to combat environmental damage. Activities and attacks on the environment are already punishable by one to two years' imprisonment and a fine of €75000 to €100,000. Rather than creating new legislation, it is already necessary to apply existing legislation. We already have a range of administrative and criminal sanctions, as well as specific criminalities, such as ecological terrorism and organised crime against the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u70	Dear colleague, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u71	This comprehensive legislative arsenal of environmental protection was formed mainly by our political family in 2005 thanks to the environmental charter desired by Jacques Chirac...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u72	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u73	... and in 2008 through the introduction of environmental liability. New case law has also emerged, in particular on pure ecological damage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u74	Mr. Huyghe...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u75	There's the crime of ecological terrorism...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u76	I will be obliged to withdraw the floor...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u77	In conclusion, the vast majority of the Republicans will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u78	There you go.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u79	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] And, since the tradition is, within us, the freedom to vote, there may be a few abstentions or some votes against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u80	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u81	We always end up in Latomb...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u82	I will be brief, as the CMP was concluded unanimously by its members yesterday in the Senate, and many have already been said by previous speakers. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] [[Same movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, this text allowing the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office is, for the MODEM Group and related democrats, a necessity to combat financial crime and protect the money of European taxpayers. He's been waiting for a long time. This development, far from being an important step towards a more integrated Europe, as some Member States may have feared in the past, illustrates the ability of Member States to create a unified European approach to combating crimes that affect the Union's financial interests. [[Same movement]] [[Same movement]] More than ever, it is essential to deliver justice in an area where impunity is frequent and where losses are significant, both for the European Union and for national budgets. The European Public Prosecutor's Office takes shape, in line with what France wanted: an institution both European by its competence and national by its actual exercise. The former director of criminal affairs and pardons, Robert Gelli, said a few weeks ago: we know a historic moment – as Mr Paris said too. This is the first time in a long time that a new European institution has been created. This is very important, and the impact of such a reform is not being measured today. Against the background of scepticism towards Europe, this European Public Prosecutor's Office is able not only to strengthen judicial efficiency, but also to restore confidence to citizens. In addition, by establishing a judicial convention in the public interest in environmental matters and by establishing within the jurisdiction of each court of appeal a judicial tribunal to deal with the complex offences of the Environmental Code, which is the subject of article 8, the draft law constitutes an important step forward for the better suppression of environmental offences. Moreover, this text is an opportunity to draw, in the law, the consequences of recent priority constitutional issues – QPC –. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] On behalf of the MoDem Group and related democrats, I commend the precise and valuable work of all our colleagues in this House and Members of Parliament of all sensitivities, including our rapporteur, Mrs Moutchou, whom I warmly thank. [[Same movement]] This work, which led to an agreement in the CMP, shows that there has been a consensus on this text, modulo some oppositions within our Assembly in session and still today. This consensus is mainly due to the fact that, while the European Public Prosecutor's Office was a necessity, the text was able to preserve our judicial specificity in France and there was therefore no loss of sovereignty. In this regard, the work of the chancery in drafting the bill has been effective, and I welcome it. Finally, the agreement of senators to respect the National Assembly's desire to delete Article 11 in the CMP was a welcome gesture. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Jean Lassalle also applauds]] For all these reasons, the MoDem Group and related democrats welcome this agreement and are fully in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u83	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u84	I now call the text of the Joint Joint Committee. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on the amendment before me. Mr Custody of the Seals, in support of Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u85	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] This legal clarification amendment avoids the deletion of the current first sentence of article 362 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that "the Assize Court shall deliberate without disempowering the application of the sentence". It's better for the Assize Court to deliberate on the application of the sentence, I think everyone agrees...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u86	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee as amended by the amendment just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u87	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u88	[[The sitting was suspended at 16.00 and resumed at 16.30 with Mr Richard Ferrand in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u89	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u90	The next item is the statement by the Government on the place of the vaccine strategy in the mechanism for combating the covid -19 epidemic, followed by a debate, pursuant to article 50-1 of the Constitution. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u91	A year ago, in China, the coronavirus was found to be responsible for the most serious health crisis our country has faced in more than a century. The second wave that has struck the whole of Europe since the beginning of autumn is a formidable violence. The virus does not lose in intensity. On the contrary, it continues to advance, victimize and gain new geographical areas, according to rules that are still beyond the full understanding of scientists. In this sense, this virus invites us all to humility. The pandemic is also reflected, in France and elsewhere, in the introduction of significant restrictions that put the strain on our fellow citizens who have already been tested by more than ten months of effort. The health situation remains worrying today. As you know, we have reached, for the past ten days, a plateau anchored to a level that does not allow us to guarantee full control of viral circulation, especially as we approach the end-of-year celebrations, a period at risk. Today, we still have one person hospitalized every minute and one person admitted to emergency resuscitation every seven minutes. However, the arrival of the vaccine and the imminent launch of the vaccination campaign in our country are grounds for hope. We will finally be able to acquire the weapon that will enable us to overcome the crisis. Vaccines raise many questions among our fellow citizens. That is why, on 2 December, I presented, together with the competent ministers, the outline of France's vaccination strategy. However, the importance of the stage that the arrival of vaccines will represent in the fight against the pandemic fully justifies, in my view, that national representation should be able to discuss it in advance of its deployment. That is why I, together with Olivier Véran, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, have wished, within the framework laid down in Article 50-1 of the Constitution, to clarify to you the foundations of our vaccination strategy, the modalities of its implementation, but also the way in which we integrate it into our overall system for combating the virus. Fundamentally attached to the role of Parliament, I believe in the virtues of collective deliberation. Beyond today's sitting, I wanted to establish a framework for lasting dialogue with Parliament on the health crisis. On 7 December, a standing committee was established for this purpose. It is composed of the presidents of both assemblies and the presidents of all parliamentary groups. While the level of collective immunity remains insufficient and science has not yet developed fully effective antiviral treatments, the vaccine can be the solution that will ensure the long-term protection of our citizens from the virus. The objectives we assign to the vaccination campaign are clear. By first targeting the most vulnerable audiences, we seek to reduce covid-19 mortality and prevent hospitalizations, particularly intensive care and resuscitation admissions. In this way, we hope to preserve our health care system for the long term and enable our country to return to normal functioning, with the gradual and full resumption of its activity. If the arrival of the vaccine carries hope, it puts us collectively, and the Government in the first place, in the face of a major challenge. The responsibilities of the State are great. That is why I want to tell you, in full transparency, how we intend to assume them. We have been preparing this deadline for many months and several major steps have already been taken. The first was to secure our vaccine supplies. As you know last spring, France was at the initiative of setting up a European task force that will allow the Member States to acquire vaccines together, in order to weigh more heavily in the negotiations and to avoid our countries engaging in fierce competition in order to be the first to be served. In practical terms, this task force has enabled us to obtain very attractive prices, above all the same for all European countries, as well as guarantees on data transparency. In addition, all vaccines will be delivered to each European country at the same time. Thanks to this mechanism, France has pre-ordered nearly 200 million doses, which will make it possible to vaccinate 100 million people, since, as you know, two injections will be needed for most vaccines. We will be delivered as the vaccines get their marketing authorisation. At this stage, of course, we are counting on the most advanced vaccines, that is, those of Pfizer and Moderna. Others, those of AstraZeneca and Janssen, are in phase 3 of clinical trials and may be available in the coming months, although caution should be exercised at this stage with respect to specific timelines given the uncertainties associated with ongoing trials. While international demand is currently very strong for the first vaccines in the licensing phase and production lines are energized, we know that we are entering a crucial period and we will be particularly careful to ensure the delivery of the ordered doses within the prescribed time frame. The second step is the definition of our vaccination strategy and the identification of the target audiences to be vaccinated as a priority. On this point, our guideline is clear: it will be the one set by an independent medical authority, the High Health Authority – HAS. In its opinion released on 30 November last, the Commission recommends that we give priority to people who are at risk of developing a serious form of disease due to their age and co-morbidity factors. That is why our campaign will begin, in accordance with this opinion, with the older people welcomed into the EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u92	Very good reasoning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u93	This first phase concerns about 1 million people. The campaign will start in the next few days, as soon as we have received the decision to authorise the placing on the market of the European Medicines Agency – AEM – expected on 21 December. Immediately thereafter, the HAS will give its opinion on the conditions of use of the vaccine. This is where we can officially launch our vaccination campaign. If all conditions are met, the first vaccinations could be carried out as early as the last week of December, the vaccination campaign being intended to increase in power from the beginning of January. This first phase will take six to eight weeks to take into account the 21-day delay between the first vaccination and the recall. In a second phase, based on the opinion of the HAS, we will expand the populations vaccinated as supplies begin, starting with the nearly 14 million people with a risk factor related to their age or chronic pathology, as well as some health professionals. For this second phase of the vaccination campaign, which will mainly concern people living at home, we will put in place another vaccination route and mobilize all our health professionals. In particular, we will rely on existing relationships between treating physicians and their patients to disseminate information, verify contraindications and obtain consent. Everyone will have to be able to be vaccinated by a healthcare professional next to his home, whom he knows and trusts. The scheme will be the subject of close consultation among all stakeholders, under the responsibility of the Minister of Solidarity and Health. It is only in a third stage, at the end of spring, that we will open vaccination to the whole population. Ladies and gentlemen, the basics of this strategy are laid,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u94	Fragile foundations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u95	... it is now appropriate to implement it and Olivier Véran will present you in a moment the modalities of its operational decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u96	We haven't seen him in six weeks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u97	The President of the Republic hoped that it would be based on two main principles, the first being trust. First of all, we must remember that if a vaccine is authorised, it is only after a rigorous procedure of tests and evaluations, both European and national. It is close to our fellow citizens that confidence will be gained, as part of their close relationship with healthcare professionals and treating physicians. In order to establish this confidence, a medical consultation will be proposed prior to the vaccination procedure, which must always be organised under medical supervision. No vaccination, including in EHPADs, will take place without the expression of informed consent. I also expect an opinion from the National Ethics Advisory Committee – CCNE – announced tomorrow; It will shed light on the issues that arise in this vaccination campaign. Second major principle: transparency. I am committed to ensuring that, throughout the vaccination campaign, the various stakeholders are involved in decision-making. That is why I wanted to place with the Minister of Solidarity and Health a policy advice for the vaccination strategy, chaired by Professor Alain Fischer, whose distinguished path of immunologist will be particularly valuable to us. The Council will, on its proposal, be composed of experts with recognized expertise and experience, in order to answer the scientific, ethical, organizational and societal questions that will arise throughout the vaccination campaign. It will contribute to the wide dissemination of current knowledge on vaccines in general, but especially on those that will help us fight covid-19. [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] I also called on the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC – to create a system of citizen participation...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u98	We're saved!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u99	...to make observations and recommendations on vaccine policy. On Friday, the EESC will present me with its proposals on the creation and facilitation of this citizens' collective. In addition, the Minister of Solidarity and Health has established three permanent bodies bringing together representatives of local authorities, health professionals and scientists; They will be continuously informed of the decisions taken and will be able to intervene as much as they wish to alert or make recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen, the arrival of the vaccine will mark a turning point, here and elsewhere, in the fight against covid-19. But let's be clear:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u100	Have you ever been clear?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u101	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] ... given the progressive process that I have presented to you, the beginning of the vaccination campaign will not mark the end of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u102	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u103	Until we reach a sufficient level of collective immunity, it will continue to be essential to mobilise the other axes of our policy: on the one hand, the rapid identification and isolation of people infected with the virus – the strategy "test, alert, protect"; On the other hand, the various preventive measures. What have we learned collectively from the management of this crisis for more than ten months, ten months long and trying, both in France and around the world? We have learned that his mastery involves sometimes acting simultaneously on several levers, and that none can be self-sufficient. The first lever of our policy is the "test, alert, protect" strategy. The objective that I submit to you and which I invite you to share is to amplify this strategy in each of its dimensions. Our record in this area is far from inadequate, since, I would remind you, we have been among the three most tested European countries for several months. But we need to do even better, for two essential reasons. The first is epidemiological: screening in large numbers should allow us to better understand the epidemic, how the virus circulates, where it is contaminated. This is one of the objectives of the four mass testing experiments – mass screening – undertaken this week in the agglomeration community of Ardenne Métropole, in the urban community of Le Havre...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u104	Little success in the Ardennes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u105	... and, from 11 January, in Roubaix and Saint-Étienne. We encourage these campaigns, and others take place in France under agreements signed with regional health agencies – ARS. However, the feedback from Liverpool and Slovakia shows that we cannot turn this tool into the alpha and omega of our screening policy. The second reason is obviously curative and is an individualized approach. In this regard, our objective is clear: to climb and break the chains of contamination as quickly as possible, but also to ensure the effectiveness of isolation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u106	And prevent the third wave!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u107	We already have a screening capacity of up to 3 million tests per week. We must continue to expand it by further improving the deadlines, in particular through the introduction, since today, of a bonus-malus system for laboratories, which will enable us to approach the 100% results achieved in 24 hours. Last week – the latest figures I have – 78% of the analysis results were returned within this time frame. We are also accelerating the deployment of antigenic tests. More than 22,000 liberal health professionals, including 8,000 official pharmacists, are currently conducting more than 300,000 antigenic tests per week. Since December 4, we have also opened up the possibility of carrying out these tests to midwives, masseur-kinesistherapists and dental surgeons. We have also worked with all partners to ensure that companies and local and regional authorities who wish to do so, with the support of the prefectural and health authorities, can carry out group antigenic testing. To speed up the chain of contamination, to better identify the sites of contamination and to speed up the epidemic, we will further strengthen the means allocated to tracing cases, allowing the additional recruitment of 4000 FTEs – full-time equivalents – to health insurance. We also enhance the functionality of the TousAntiCovid app, which has already been downloaded by more than 11 million people,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u108	Let's hope you did it yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u109	You're still on "Tele Covid"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u110	... to be used in particular in places considered to be at risk of transmission. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the part of isolation remains. It is crucial: our ability to ensure its effectiveness depends on our ability to curb the spread of the epidemic. A few countries have, as you know, chosen to introduce compulsory isolation, the non-compliance of which is subject to sometimes heavy penalties. This is not the case in France, where the isolation of people tested positive and their contact cases takes place on a voluntary basis. Mr President, in the Standing Committee I referred to earlier, I consulted with the chairmen of the parliamentary groups to obtain their views on this subject. Most of them considered that it was preferable, both for reasons of acceptability and effectiveness, to focus our efforts on strengthening the human support of sick people and thus to exclude any coercive arrangements. But I would like you to be able to comment on this matter again in the context of this public debate. In any event, from January onwards, each positive person will be offered a home visit by a health care team, and social support. This is an important investment, which will mobilize more than 1500 liberal nurses and 3000 social workers a day. Local and regional authorities, with whom we are in permanent contact, will take full part in the deployment of this new approach. You also, through the vote on an amendment to the Finance Bill for 2021, allowed the withdrawal of the waiting period for all those who had to isolate themselves, because it turned out to be for many to be a brake on isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u111	That's what we've been asking since September!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u112	With regard to the second aspect, prevention, we will maintain in the coming months – certainly until at least next summer – a base of protective measures that will serve as a safety net. Of course, the first step will be, by all available educational and institutional means, to recall the barriers and preventive measures that our knowledge has improved over the months, including respect for distancing, wearing masks, washing hands and aeration of premises. Respect for these essential reflexes will remain, notwithstanding the deployment of vaccination, a requirement for each and every one of us, and we will continue tirelessly to raise awareness, inform and communicate on all channels available to keep our fellow citizens at a high level of vigilance. We need you as well as all the forces to carry this message tirelessly, especially before the end of the year. Appropriate messages and targeted accompanying measures will also have to be maintained for people who are particularly vulnerable to the virus, particularly in the context of the metropolitan plans which I requested to draw up from the beginning of August last year. At this stage, the deployment of vaccination cannot diminish its scope. We will also maintain health protocols covering as many activities and facilities as possible. These protocols, which have been clarified over the months, may, as you know, be hardened according to the intensity of the epidemic. The extensive use of telework, which has proven to be effective in the fight against the pandemic, will continue to be necessary. I would like to welcome to you the sense of responsibility of the social partners: on 26 November they concluded an agreement on telework which clarifies the rules applicable to this matter, whether for employees or for employers. I know that the use of telework five days out of five can lead to organizational and, above all, psychological difficulties. In the light of the epidemiological developments and in order to take account of these effects, it may be adapted from 7 January, as the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration mentioned with the social partners. Finally, I should like to refer to the braking measures, national or limited to certain territories, which may be necessary if epidemiological and hospital indicators, defined on the basis of criteria which have been constantly refined and which are increasingly transparent and shared, cross thresholds reflecting a recovery or an increase in the epidemic. They can be local or affect the whole country, when viral circulation becomes too large. These braking measures, you only know too much: they range from the partial or total closure of activities or categories of establishments receiving from the public to traffic restrictions, curfews or even confinement. These are preventive measures designed to prevent the spread of the pandemic. They are difficult to take and often – it is perfectly understandable – poorly accepted. However, they are necessary and have proved their effectiveness by allowing our country to display, in November, the fastest and most clear reflux of the epidemic in Europe. I note with you that some of our neighbours have chosen, a few weeks after us, to put in place a mechanism similar to ours. These measures obviously call for strong and appropriate support from the professional sectors concerned, which my Government, like my predecessor, has never hesitated to offer, gaining broad support from national representation, which is in the honour of our country. For the activities that had been planned to resume on 15 December if health indicators had improved – I am thinking in particular of cinemas, theatres, theatres and museums – we have set a re-visit clause on 7 January. By this time, we will be able to verify the first effects of the end-of-year holidays on viral circulation and, by then, we will have conducted, in conjunction with the Minister of Culture, the necessary consultations with the professionals in the sectors concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, in presenting today to your Assembly the vaccination strategy developed by the Government and the overall management of the crisis, which will continue to apply, I would like to share with you all the information we have on the vaccine, in order to allow us to engage in a constructive debate. So we're going to have an extra weapon to defeat this virus, a weapon that's going to grow up gradually, here and elsewhere. We need to be careful and patient, but confident. Trust is not decreed, it is won, it is sometimes lost, but, above all, it is earned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u113	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u114	In the face of fear, doubt and suspicion, we will explain as much as we need, we will reassure, we will accompany, and, above all, we will protect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u115	There's work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Total transparency, absolute vigilance and unwavering determination will be our key words during this campaign, in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u117	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u118	Following the presentation of our vaccination strategy by the Prime Minister, I will give you details on the timing and logistical arrangements, as well as on the organisation of the stakeholder association. This crucial step in the fight against the pandemic is very demanding: it requires rigour, a lot of rigour. I know this assembly will not fail. On this occasion, I would like to pay tribute to the members of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices (OPECST) for the high-quality work they have done, which can only enrich our debates, at a time when science allows us to take a new step in the fight against the epidemic. This stage comes after long months of a health crisis that has led countries around the world to make very difficult decisions. I know how tired our fellow citizens are, how tired they are. In this complicated context, the arrival of vaccines, less than a year after the outbreak of the pandemic, is an immense hope and a feat of science. This arrival also gives rise to doubts that I do not want to avoid in my remarks. To sum up the vaccination campaign that will begin, I will highlight three challenges. The first of these is the scientific challenge. Since the beginning of this pandemic, the scientific community, fully mobilized, has broken all records. It took only a few weeks to identify an unknown virus, which is responsible for severe respiratory disorders, in any case not anodizing. It was in China. In just a few days, the Institut Pasteur carried out the complete sequencing of the coronavirus genome: having received the sampling on January 24, it was able, on January 28, to sequence the virus and share its data with the world. It was in France. It took less than a year...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u119	A record!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u120	... to find and develop not one, but several vaccines, whose published results show remarkable effectiveness. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and Agir ens groups]] It is not enough to say: science is fantastic, medicine is magnificent. Rather than doubting it, we should collectively rejoice, and even celebrate it. We forgot to remember that in science, there's an adventure going on. At the birth of this scientific adventure, there is often an idea, a theory, a concept, a stroke of genius that emerges in a laboratory or at the foot of a patient's bed, in a hospital. We forgot to recall that science obeys rigorousness, strict research protocols, evaluated, framed, and normed. The rigor of science is opposed to the illusion that magic can provide, carrying simplistic solutions, to which many scientists often refer. The second challenge is societal, that of trust. I hear some ask, "Why would I trust this American vaccine? First of all, the vaccine is not American: BioNTech is a German company that produces in Belgium and has partnered with a large American laboratory to be able to produce doses of vaccine worldwide. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] I hear the vaccine was produced too quickly. What does it mean too fast? I put back a second the neurologist blouse, I who regularly face patients with diseases that we do not know how to cure and that we sometimes find it difficult to treat. On the day a treatment would arrive, I don't see myself saying to my patient: "You know, I'm a little afraid to prescribe this treatment because it happened too quickly. One of two things: either the treatment is evaluated, tested and effective, and it is then a chance for the sick; either he is not and he is not offered to the sick, and we wait for another treatment. As long as it is given, because it is effective and has been evaluated, it remains an opportunity for the sick. I also hear that the RNA vaccine – ribonucleic acid – messenger would change the human genome. On radio, Professor Alain Fischer again said this morning, quite rightly, that an injected messenger RNA does not alter the human genome in any way: it is eliminated very quickly and does not fit into the genome. I hear another argument that is also expressed in other vaccination campaigns: "You know, doctor – or minister, in this case – I'm afraid of adjuvants. The vaccine proposed by BioNTech and Pfizer does not contain any adjuvant: there is no need for it because it is sufficiently effective and immunogenic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, I sometimes hear people say, "Well, isn't this vaccine just used to fatten labs? ", by suspecting that we have almost created the epidemic. If there was only one argument against conspiracy, it would be that of the cost of partial unemployment in our country: all the expenditure generated by the vaccination campaign across Europe represents less than a week of partial unemployment in our country. [[Same movements]] You have to be reasonable and answer doubts when there are. To sum up the situation in one sentence, I will quote this old popular saying: when you want to kill your dog, it is said that it has rage – a paradox in the country of Pastor who invented the vaccine against this disease. Let us be careful and bear the scientific word with confidence and credit. In this regard, let us recall one absolutely essential point: the vaccine has not been developed by our government or another – American, German, Belgian, Chinese, Russian or I don't know what origin – nor has the virus been created by any government. The French Government has a goal: to ensure that vaccination is done well, that the right vaccine is given to the right patient, in the right place, at the right time. It is the independent French and European scientists and health authorities who tell us whether the vaccine is effective or not, whether it is safe or not, under what conditions we can use it, to whom patients, in what order. This is not a political decision, it is an independent health and scientific orientation. As for us, I repeat, our role is to ensure that things are going well. This is the third and final challenge, that of logistics. The main objective of the national vaccination strategy is to reduce mortality and serious forms of the disease, to protect the French and to guarantee the health security of all our citizens. It is based on the HAS recommendations on the priority plan for populations to be vaccinated against covid-19 and involves several steps, the first of which is to begin very soon. In this first stage, we are targeting a high priority audience because more vulnerable to the disease, more fragile and more exposed: the elderly who are in EHPADs, in long-term care units and in long-term care units, but also in other places of accommodation such as independent residences and service residences. Protecting these vulnerable people, our seniors who are losing their autonomy, is also protecting the women and men who accompany them on a daily basis. Therefore, based on the recommendations of the HAS, we will propose vaccination to professionals working in these facilities, when they themselves have an increased risk of serious forms or deaths, whether they are over 65 years of age or have co-morbidity factors. Details will be provided in a supplementary opinion from HAS. A total of 1 million French could be involved in this first stage. It's a challenge in itself, but we can trust our caregivers to meet it. This is the priority of priorities. When the virus enters an EHPAD, it rarely stops at a single person, and we have seen and deplored enough homes that have cost the lives of dozens of residents. In this regard, the most difficult decision I had to make since the beginning of this health crisis was the suspension of visits to institutions for the elderly. For nothing in the world, we do not want to relive this situation. I would like to reiterate my immense gratitude to the professionals of the old age because, in this complicated period, they responded present. Believe me, with Brigitte Bourguignon, Deputy Minister for Autonomy, we will spare no effort, on a daily basis, to be in constant contact with the residents and caregivers of EHPAD. This first step will be decisive, but the staff of the institutions for the elderly will not be alone to cross it: they will be informed in advance and the RSAs will stand by them to ensure that the supply takes place in the best conditions. Next comes the second step, according to the pace of delivery of the different vaccines. Vaccination will be based on age groups: first those over 75 years of age, then those over 65 years of age. It will also cover health and social workers over the age of 50 with co-morbidities. After the winter comes spring, we will be able to gradually extend the vaccination strategy to the general public. It will be aimed at people between the ages of 50 and 64, a significant part of the population, professionals in sectors essential to the country's functioning in an epidemic period – security, education, food – vulnerable and vulnerable audiences, as well as professionals who care for them, people living in confined accommodation or in enclosed areas. It will finally extend to the rest of the major population. For this stage, we will rely on those who form the foundation of our health care system, those to whom the French trust more than we do: city health professionals, especially doctors. As you can see, we have indeed entered into the organization of the vaccination campaign whose deployment is imminent. This is, I repeat, a huge and even historical logistical challenge, as the scale of this campaign is without comparison with our vaccination traditions. The first stage of the campaign will correspond to the use of the first vaccine, Pfizer and BioNTech, subject of course to the green light given by the health authorities. Although this is obvious in our country, I would point out that covid-19 vaccines are treated with the same level of requirement as all other medicines authorised in Europe, in order to ensure their safety. Once the marketing authorisation has been obtained by the laboratories, the HAS will give its opinion on each of the vaccines. It will thus specify in which cases the vaccine will be indicated or contraindicated at the individual level, based on its own scientific data. The MEA is expected to deliver its opinion on 21 December and, in the same movement, the first vaccines should be delivered to France. The European Commission could validate the use of the vaccine in Europe on 23 December. In this regard, I would like to thank Clément Beaune, the Secretary of State for European Affairs, who is working very hard on these issues. The HAS Technical Committee on Immunization could give its opinion on 24 December – probably not on 25 December, for a reason that everyone will understand – or on 26, 27 or 28 December. Thus, while ensuring co-operation and co-ordination of campaigns at European level, we could start to vaccinate, as the Prime Minister said, before the end of 2020, in the last days of December. I would also point out that we will deploy enhanced pharmacovigilance devices for all covid-19 vaccines in order to monitor, in real time and on an individual scale, all suspected adverse reactions. Let's sum them up briefly. Laboratories, first, will be required to develop risk management plans. Next, the ANSM – National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products – whose job it is, will centralize the follow-up data of patients and re-emerged adverse reactions and will conduct a daily analysis of new cases. An opportunity for citizens to report will be opened. ANSM will regularly publish the results of this follow-up on its website. The third pillar of pharmacovigilance: specific studies will be carried out by ANSM and health insurance to supplement the available knowledge on the risks of adverse reactions. Finally, two other complementary monitoring systems will be introduced at the same time: the first by INSERM – Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale – which will assess the incidence of real-life vaccination, following cohorts of patients, and the second by Santé publique France, which will monitor the effectiveness of vaccination by comparing the risks of contracting the virus among vaccinated and unvaccinated populations. As you can see, we will mobilize a complete arsenal of monitoring devices. This is necessary for maximum confidence. I come back to the first stage of the vaccination campaign and to the characteristics of the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine. It is a precious asset that must, let's say, be transported and stored with special care. First, it requires storage at -80 °C. For this reason, the Government has already purchased and qualified suitable special freezers, equipped with ad hoc information systems, which will be gradually installed in many parts of the territory, so that the vaccine can be brought and stored temporarily before final delivery. We need to save time, because as soon as the vaccine is thawed – it is then stored between 2 and 8 °C – we have five days to vaccinate patients. To add to the complexity, the fragility of the strand of messenger RNA that composes the vaccine does not allow to exceed twelve hours of transport between its thawing and its injection to the patients: this delay, in view of all the steps to be respected, requires, as I indicated, an important logistics. I would like to recall that France has more than 10,000 collective establishments for the elderly. To meet this challenge, we have chosen to build on existing and proven skills in our country, and on the knowledge of pharmacists, with whom institutions are used to working. We obviously bought in advance the necessary vaccination and reconstitution equipment, such as syringes, needles, or gloves to handle products at -80 °C – I thank you for the rest. In view of the transport times I have just mentioned, it is important to ensure that the doses can be administered quickly after delivery to the establishments concerned, which implies very fine planning of the delivery channels and anticipation of vaccination campaigns within these establishments. The organization of the vaccination campaign will first be based on pre-vaccination consultations, primarily by the treating physicians, who are used to it. Physicians will receive clear and complete information on the vaccine, its efficacy and possible contraindications. The communication of this information has already begun and will be completed following the marketing authorisation procedure with the opinion of the HAS, which is expected to take place at the end of December. It will be deepened this Friday, on the basis of the first foreign publications, in the presence of Professor Alain Fischer. Finally, on the day of vaccination, a final examination will be made to assess the condition of the person before the injection, which should take place in the presence of a doctor. I believe in the virtues of explanation, pedagogy and scientific rigour. HAS has identified the priority audiences in its highly specific opinion on the vaccination strategy – an independent opinion, I repeat, that we have made the choice to follow. This is our method: to draw on the expertise of those whose profession it is. Let me conclude by focusing on this method. Our vaccination strategy will only work at the cost of a general mobilization. This challenge is not just that of the Government: it is a collective challenge, the challenge of an entire nation. That is the very meaning of holding this debate before national representation. To meet this challenge, we are working collectively: from the start of the organizational phase, in the fall, I asked my team to initiate a very broad dialogue. More than 40 contact and information meetings were held, in full transparency, with health professionals. I then wanted weekly follow-up committees to be organised at the ministry with all stakeholders. I meet every week, in a committee of the health professions, the representatives of health professionals – orders and unions – who will once again be on the front line, as well as the representatives of hospital staff, whether they are federations, conferences of directors, or presidents of medical commissions of establishment. I also met in video conferencing at the end of last week, 19800 doctors who responded to the call of the National Council of the Order of Physicians, to exchange broken sticks, for an hour, on the questions that continue to arise. In addition, with Brigitte Bourguignon, we communicate weekly with representatives of institutions for the elderly, who will play an absolutely crucial role in the coming weeks. I say this without a doubt: we will not encourage the French to join vaccination – and you know how demanding our fellow citizens are in this area – without relying on the medical, paramedical and scientific communities. But our strategy would also be very little without the support and commitment of local elected officials. My teams and I hold a committee of elected officials every fortnight to share all the information and to fully involve communities in the deployment of our strategy, based on their fine knowledge of the territory, on the resources available to them, or simply on the trust and support enjoyed by local elected officials. I think we can say that we are working in confidence, and it's precious: communities will have a major role to play in the vaccination campaign, from the first stage of the process and even more so in the next phases. For this reason, at the local level, local immunization monitoring units will be set up, involving state services, local authorities and health professionals. Finally, since I have referred to the need for general mobilisation, I cannot ignore the European coordination which has marked the last few weeks. Europe has been united, united and ambitious to effectively prepare for this historic vaccination campaign. Together with my German, Belgian, Spanish, Italian, Luxembourgish, Dutch and also Swiss counterparts, we were still exchanging yesterday in a constructive and supportive spirit. We have agreed to pursue together the objective of a coordinated launch of our vaccination campaigns. Cross-country runners know that a marathon really starts only around the 30th kilometre: it is at this moment, called "the wall", that the whole race is played. I don't know yet what kilometer of the race we're at,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u121	[[Claims on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You're already very late!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u122	Di Filippo, he's the sprinter of bullshit! He's crossing the sound wall.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] ...but I know that we are coming to this decisive area where we must remobilize fully despite fatigue and fatigue. We will therefore move forward together: to set one foot in front of the other, with determination, by being cautious, transparent and above all confident.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u124	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u125	While the announcement a few weeks ago of the placing of vaccines on the market suggests a gradual exit from the crisis in the coming months, the challenges and issues related to the vaccine strategy remain considerable. To discuss it is essential. This was the subject of paragraph 12 of the motion for a resolution tabled on 12 November last by the Socialist and related group on the initiative of its President Valérie Rabault. [[Applause on several SOC benches and on a few benches of the GDR and LR groups]] As you said, Minister: the vaccination strategy faces many challenges – societal, scientific, medical, logistical and economic. I want to thank the President of the National Assembly, who has committed himself to ensuring that OPECST plays its full monitoring and evaluation role. A bicameral mission of two MPs and two Senators came into being, coordinated by President Cédric Villani, whom I greet. Yesterday, she presented a progress report, which allows us to appreciate the long way to go in order to succeed in the vaccination strategy that you have just presented. This strategy is based on several elements related to knowledge of the virus and disease. We now know that the lethality rate varies mainly with age and averages 8% for people over 80 years of age. Therefore, the recommendation of the HAS to carry out progressive, phase-by-phase vaccination prioritising the elderly or vulnerable by morbidity factors seems reasonable. One element, however, undermines the understanding by our fellow citizens – and by parliamentarians – of the decisions taken. This is the multiplicity of cells and other security councils, which opacifies decision-making rather than simplifying coordination. Who makes the decisions, Prime Minister? On the basis of what advice? How transparent is the process? How do the various advisory and expert bodies that accompany you in decision-making coexist? The articulation of all these structures does not seem to be very legible, either for parliamentarians or for our fellow citizens. It is therefore necessary to clarify the roles and missions of all these bodies and to make their reading intelligible to French and French people. Good supply chain performance is a key condition for the success of the vaccine strategy. The challenge will be extremely difficult, from the first phase of vaccination, given the transport and handling constraints of the vaccine available. If the official message is to be reassuring, we lack details on the practical modalities that will be adopted, including the logistics of the last kilometre. The French need precise information, at the national, but also regional and local level, on the storage and distribution of vaccines, as well as on compliance with the conditions of preservation of the lots. Vaccination, which will have to remain optional and only intervene after the collection of the free consent of people, will have to rely, as you said, on community health professionals, who have a privileged relationship of knowledge and trust with their patient. These professionals will still need to have the necessary information on the proposed vaccine, which is not the case at this time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u126	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u127	It will also be necessary to build a simple and comprehensive information system in order to trace all vaccinations performed and trace possible adverse reactions in real time. There may be a need for an electronic vaccination booklet. One of the challenges is the success of the entire campaign: the individual and collective decision to be vaccinated. Your strategy will only work if the greatest number not only can, but will want to be vaccinated. Thus, mistrust is a major factor limiting the chances of success of this strategy. Paradoxically, in the country of Pasteur, there is indeed a historical resistance to vaccination, religious, naturalistic, alter-scientific or conspiracy – no matter what. It seems to me that the reluctance or even reluctance to deal with the vaccine and the lack of confidence that have been in place for several months is largely rooted in the draft management of this crisis by your government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u128	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u129	The dysfunctions, falsifications and approximations of spring are still painfully animate the family discussions. The hidden information, or even the lies, around the masks, the absence of truth discourse, the inability to ensure the triptych "test, trace, isolate" legitimately worried our fellow citizens. I will not dwell on influenza vaccines that have never been delivered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u130	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u131	Right! It's hard to hear, but it's true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u132	Prime Minister, the measures of varying geometry, which deal differently with the halls of worship and the cultural halls, or the essential shops and shops unfortunately called "non-essential", are not understood, to such an extent that they undermine the credibility of political speech. You should have worked more with the local elected representatives, as we have asked you several times in this House. We called for a dialogue between the mayor and the prefect to strengthen the acceptability of measures to contain commercial activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u133	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u134	As a result of your policy, according to an Odoxa poll in November, only 42 per cent of French people trust the Government to fight the current epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u135	It's still a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u136	The loss of confidence in public institutions is undoubtedly the major reason for the recent increase in vaccine reluctance, unfortunately more pronounced in France than in other European countries. The success of your strategy will therefore require consultation with all health professionals, as well as dialogue with intermediate bodies and citizens. As you said, the first remedy against distrust is transparency. The independence of the actors in the immunization strategy from private interests is often questioned. That is why it is important for you to provide specific responses in the area of conflict of interest prevention, in particular by imposing a declaration of the private interests of all persons active in the various committees. I assure you that this is necessary, Prime Minister: just consult the social networks to find out. Similarly, it is not normal for only a handful of Members of the European Parliament to be allowed to consult contracts concluded between the European Union and laboratories, and again, provided that they have been authorised and present themselves without a phone or a pen. In these circumstances, how can we talk about transparency? I ask on behalf of my group, Prime Minister: make all these documents public, to avoid fuelling speeches of distrust and distrust!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u137	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u138	Establish a national or European public register of signed contracts. Transparency is not an act of faith, but a requirement to be applied in practice, surpassing incantations. Access to scientific, medical, pharmacological and economic information must also be facilitated. This is also a strong recommendation of the OECST's work on the vaccination strategy against covid-19. Acceptability depends on the accessibility of information. It will therefore be necessary to communicate clearly about vaccines, their possible side effects and the new technologies used, those of messenger RNA vaccines. The doubts expressed by our fellow citizens before this new stage are legitimate: it is normal to question ourselves in the face of novelty, and doubt is even the principle of science. We must therefore respect all those who doubt, whatever their reasons, and give them precise and clear answers on what we know and what we do not know, without hiding anything. Vaccination can be a progressive and effective solution to the health crisis of recent months – we all hope so. I am thinking like you of all those affected by the disease or by the economic and social consequences of the health crisis. Responsibility requires a speech of truth. However, the specialists, including Professor Alain Fischer, who chairs the advisory board of the vaccine strategy, are formal: if the efficacy of the Pfizer vaccine is proven to avoid the development of serious forms, there is no reason to say that vaccines on the market today will prevent the transmission of the virus. All of our citizens need to be well informed about this. It is also necessary to draw all the consequences of the wrong vaccination strategy against the H1N1 virus, which involved setting aside city medicine and setting up vaccination centres in large requisitioned places. As a result, the bond of trust had changed. We have just learned that the MEA would authorise the vaccine early next week, which should allow the competent French authority to speed up the process and in turn quickly validate the national marketing of the vaccine. We hope, however, that the Government will not unduly speed up the deployment date because in terms of logistics, ethics of consent and communication – necessary to the acceptability of the approach – things are not yet in place. While it is symbolically important that vaccination dates are the same in all European countries, vaccines must also be available in all parts of the national territory at the same time, in metropolitan France and overseas. The Government should have prepared much earlier; We regret that this has not been the case and we strongly doubt that everything will be ready at the end of December, as you have just announced. I mean, I'll finish...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u139	Yes, it's time, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u140	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] ...by a strong regret: there will be no French vaccine for many months. The only conclusion we can draw is that the financial support for this project in France has been weak, unlike that of our European neighbours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u142	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u143	In the context of this debate on the vaccination strategy against covid-19, I would like to say, first of all, that this crisis has all too often been an opportunity to make a bad trial for our democracies. The propaganda of some States has been able to give the impression, for some time, that our model and principles were inadequate to deal with the global pandemic. But that is not true, as we can see when we take the time to conduct an international analysis of the effectiveness of the methods of managing the crisis, and as the rapid production of vaccines shows: these are the result of unprecedented cooperation, research and industrial development, made possible by the proper functioning of our democracies. For the first time, European countries have chosen the collective for the provision of vaccines. The last European Council, which took place last weekend, also recalled the importance of coordinating vaccination strategies. Welcome the commitment of all those working in the health industry; I have a special thought for the collaborators of Sanofi's site in Marcy-l'Étoile, in my constituency, who follow the line of Pasteur, whose first vaccine was inoculated 135 years ago. I would like to remind our colleague Leseul that in June the President of the Republic announced €200 million in support of the industrial sector working on vaccine development,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u144	It's 700 million in Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u145	... to which must be added 600 million euros of investments announced by Sanofi. However, the use of the vaccine raises many doubts among our fellow citizens, most often expressed in good faith. As the OPECST points out, whose remarkable work I welcome, vaccine hesitation is a continuum from the pure and simple refusal of vaccination to a somewhat more reasoned prudence, based mostly on a lack of information. The questions of our fellow citizens are numerous. Will covid -19 vaccines prevent the transmission of the virus, or simply the appearance of serious forms of the disease? Will their effects be sustainable? Will there be any side effects? Should we also vaccinate people already tested positive at covid-19? Should vaccination be made compulsory for certain categories of people, e.g. EHPAD staff? The Action Together Group welcomes the fact that national representation is taking its full part in the debate on the vaccine strategy, because your statement, Prime Minister, and our interventions must help to present the state of knowledge on vaccines with transparency and clarity, in order not only to make the right decisions for our country, but also to reassure our fellow citizens. We thank you for your engagement and adhere to your progressive vaccination strategy, which focuses on the most vulnerable audiences and is based on an assessment of the relationship between benefits and risks. We also fully share your decision to allow our fellow citizens the free choice of vaccination or not, because in our democracies, to succeed collectively, we must first convince ourselves. We recall the need to closely involve general practitioners, pharmacists and nurses, who are closest to patients, in the campaign. Traceability and follow-up of adverse reactions should also be ensured. The systematic inclusion of vaccination in the electronic health book would contribute to this and would provide an opportunity to develop its use, allowing for a sustainable follow-up of vaccinations. If all mankind hopes, thanks to these vaccines, to see the end of the tunnel of the Covid-19, we invite caution, however, for several reasons. First, it does not appear to be guaranteed at this stage that they prevent carriers of the virus from spreading it. Maintaining the barrier gestures and wearing the mask therefore seems essential, including for vaccinated people. Secondly, we have no certainty as to the sustainability of the effectiveness of these vaccines. The first phases of vaccination will constitute full-scale clinical tests in this area. Finally, to be effective, a vaccination coverage rate of more than 60 or 70 per cent is necessary, and this is likely to take at least until the second half of 2021. The uncertainties surrounding covid-19 vaccines are therefore still numerous, although they undoubtedly represent a major step forward in the fight against the pandemic. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] The Action Together Group therefore supports the Government's vaccination strategy while calling for continued action to strengthen the resilience of our society in terms of health, not only to speed up the exit of this crisis, but also to prepare for the future, because yes, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, other crises will occur, and this time we will have to be ready.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u146	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u147	The IDU and independent group would first like to welcome the Government's initiative to discuss the immunization strategy in this Assembly. On these benches, we have expressed our frustration enough that we cannot discuss the Government's strategy against covid-19 and that we must be subject to further debate, not directly related to the first of the concerns of our fellow citizens. As several laboratories present their vaccine, the health authorities do their certification work and in some countries vaccinations have begun, I am pleased that, finally, the national representation can express itself. I would also like to thank the work done by our colleague Cédric Villani at OPECST, who conducted a series of hearings last week that were widely open to all Members and Senators on the immunization strategy. The second wave, which seems to be at least equivalent to the first wave, sweeps away our certainty. Even Germany, whose management of the epidemic seems exemplary, is facing difficulties. Sweden, which advocates the concept of collective immunity, also faces a surge in the number of contaminations and deaths, demonstrating that no country and no strategy fully protects its population from this threat. And what about the United States where Thanksgiving celebrations have led to an exponential acceleration of virus circulation? In 24 hours, they deplored more deaths than there were during the September 11 attacks. The uncertainty we need to deal with is not just about the number of contaminations and deaths, because many of our fellow citizens affected by the covid-19 still have sequelae. Others, if not directly affected by the virus, have been affected by depression, loneliness and anxiety, as a result of measures taken to limit the spread of the virus. Faced with the scourge that afflicts us, the prospect of a vaccine appears like light at the end of the tunnel. But the vaccination campaign still needs to be a success. Among the reasons for our satisfaction is the role played by Europe in the vaccination strategy. For weeks now, the European Union has given its full meaning to our European ideal. Thanks to Europe, we have been able to pool our resources and equip ourselves with millions of doses while making significant economies of scale. Europe assures us of the reliability of vaccines thanks to the work of the MEA. Europe allows every European to benefit fairly from the doses placed on the market, while ensuring that each Member State is involved in their production. Europe has not been slow or bureaucratic, let alone out of the ground. It has done its job to protect its population, to guarantee solidarity between its members and, ultimately, to allow every European to have access to the vaccine. Finally, what we collectively need is the strict application of the principle of subsidiarity: decisions must be taken at the right level. Let us reserve to Europe the negotiations with the states and territories, the local organisation allowing access to the vaccine. Our group has been campaigning for years for the territorialization of our health care system. In fact, during the review of the latest Social Security Financing Bill, we proposed that the Government create a regional health budget through the establishment of an ORDAM – a regional health insurance expenditure target. The territorial declination of the vaccination strategy requires that the state trust the territories and our elected representatives who know them better than anyone and therefore know how best to administer the vaccine to as many people as possible. We also question the packaging of the vaccine. Is maintaining the product at very low temperatures an obstacle to the involvement of city medicine and pharmacy clinics? As regards the association of elected representatives and citizens with the vaccination strategy, we cannot be satisfied with the creation of ad hoc committees. The drawing by lot of the elected representatives or the citizens who make them up cannot be a guarantee of representativeness or a guarantee of consultation. The National Assembly and the Senate, on the other hand, have full legitimacy to represent the nation and our territories. Prime Minister, listen to parliamentarians and rely on us to relay and decline your vaccination strategy in the ridings! The territorial declination of the vaccination strategy is one of the conditions for its success; trust is another. Some of our fellow citizens express a form of mistrust of new vaccines. They understood that the spread of a covid-19 vaccine would be a colossal financial manna and feared that laboratories would focus on the economic benefits to public health. These concerns are legitimate and need to be heard. However, as Professor Fischer, Chairman of the Advisory Board for the Vaccine Strategy, explains, regardless of the speed with which vaccines have been developed, the European and French drug agencies will not neglect their certification work. If these vaccines are put on the market, they will be as reliable as those already given to our fellow citizens. However, part of the population openly opposes vaccination. It is up to us to convince these French people and to empower them because, as Daniel Camus, one of the infectious scientists at the Institut Pasteur in Lille, says: "The person who dares to say: it is my freedom not to have me vaccinated, it means that she relies on others to prevent the circulation of the virus. We need to build trust and encourage our fellow citizens, without forcing them to do so, to get vaccinated, by making them understand that being vaccinated is a citizen act: I do it to protect myself and others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u148	Especially to protect others!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u149	This will allow us to return, collectively, to a social and cultural life. We could take an example of Israel, which grants every person vaccinated a "green passport" allowing them to go to the places of culture or to the restaurant, to find, in other words, a normal life. Our group believes that such a measure would encourage the French to be vaccinated and to make them aware of the fact that vaccination helps to protect themselves, but also to protect others. The last condition for this vaccination campaign to be successful is industrial sovereignty. The destruction and the flight abroad of our industrial production capacity still handicaps us today, as we fight against the health crisis. The Pfizer laboratory vaccine must be kept at a temperature of -70 °C, we will have to order a number of freezers at very low temperatures, and it may be that the packaging of the vaccine raises logistical difficulties. Germany, which is one of the world leaders in the sector, will not have this problem, while at home only a few companies produce this type of freezer... in factories located in Romania. And as a matter of fact, several European countries have already placed orders before the state even manifests itself. France should have anticipated. For many years, successive governments have let our industrial enterprises go. This crisis leads us to rethink our economic model, not by clinging to the theory of magic money, but by repatriating our national production capacity, especially in the most strategic sectors. Remember that the vaccine is no more dangerous than the epidemic and that if smallpox or tuberculosis has disappeared from our societies, it is because of vaccines. (Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Mr Paul Christophe also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u150	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u151	We regret that once again Parliament is not involved in defining the strategy to be adopted in the face of the pandemic that our country and the world have been experiencing for almost a year. Of course, the debate is still useful and necessary, but the debate we have today will not be followed by any vote or decision-making that would belong to national representation. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have been asked to vote for or against confidence in your government, but never have any of the proposals from your oppositions caught your attention. This is the case with the work of the group La France insoubted, which, since March, has sent you about fifteen bills, five plans including a complete plan of deconfinement, four guides including a guide for the protection of employees, and more recently, a plan for an alternative to confinement. No, the monarch decides everything, alone or on the basis of a parallel government, subject to defence secrecy, the famous defence counsel. Of course, we know that it is not easy to make decisions in the face of a health crisis, but the multiple mismanagement of the health crisis and the resulting loss of confidence should have led you to change your strategy. We know that we are not done with this virus, let alone with its economic and social consequences. But the French need to see the end of the tunnel. There is much hope for the vaccine, but the vaccine strategy must be transparent; It must adapt to uncertainties and combine with a therapeutic and preventive strategy. Half of the French do not want to be vaccinated, which does not mean that they are on principle anti-vaccine or have succumbed to conspiracy theses: the concerns exist, the doubts are real, they must be removed. Everything went very quickly, compared to the usual time frame for a vaccine to be marketed, and we can be pleased with that. But the technologies used are different from one vaccine to another, and a new technology, messenger RNA, will be used. Therefore, the data available to us are still very partial, and the HAS has acknowledged that the vaccine recommendations will evolve as new elements become available. The efficacy of vaccines and their safety, the duration of immunity, which has not yet been established, the characteristics of the disease are all points on which the transparency of health authorities would help to remove many legitimate questions. Transparency was also needed in the economic sphere and business secrecy should not be an obstacle. We are interested in the structure of costs and prices, the place of production, the intellectual property regime and the liability regime. However, for the time being, we have been able to see more about the effects of certain advertisements on stock exchange prices than we have been able to find out about contracts concluded. The pandemic is global. The vaccine should therefore be a common good of humanity. It is already known that the richest countries, which account for 15 per cent of the world's population, have taken down 80 per cent of the promised stocks, while immunizing the entire world's population would cost less than 1 per cent of what the pandemic is going to cost the world economy. As I said, Prime Minister, the vaccine strategy must be combined with a therapeutic and preventive strategy, and I am surprised to hear so little about the prospect of treatment for covid-19, while in Lille, the Institut Pasteur is developing a drug whose results are expected next May. I reiterate in this forum our proposal to create a public drug centre in France, to put the medicine at the service of the general interest, integrating basic research and the production of the essential molecules. It is not acceptable for 80% of our medicines to be imported: it is necessary to produce in France. Similarly, there is an immediate need to put an end to hospital bed closures, which are continuing at this very moment. Finally, in the event of a third wave, it is urgent to prepare alternatives to containment. Strengthening health protocols, organizing rotations in all sectors of society where this is possible: let us deploy the great means – no matter what the cost – to limit to the maximum the circulation of the virus, while allowing life to continue. In short, a vaccine under the conditions I mentioned, treatment, prevention measures, a health protocol and an alternative to containment would, in our view, be the ingredients of a good strategy to end this pandemic. [[Smile at the bench of ministers]] France, without its cinemas, without its theatres or concerts, without its bars and restaurants, is no longer France. The National Assembly sometimes takes the look of great theatre; and yet we are open.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u152	That's what we call a fall, in every sense of the word!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u153	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u154	It is almost a year since our country and the world have been fighting an unknown and devastating virus; One year, lived like an eternity by the health professionals mobilized to the extreme since the first hour, these professionals to whom I want to express our gratitude and gratitude again: if our health system has held, it is thanks to the caregivers who, in doing their duty, do more than their work. An eternity for us too, whose lives have been shaken, affected by a serious economic crisis and severe restrictions on freedoms. I must tell you that these last few weeks have been particularly long for me, who, like so many others, have had to fight against this disease – one of its long forms, still too unknown and underestimated – which leaves you in a state of great exhaustion and of which I confess not yet fully recovered. A year, I said, is an eternity. However, it is short on the scale of scientific research. One year after discovering this virus, after sequencing its genome, after the three phases of clinical trials, we are debating a vaccination strategy, less than a month from the start of a vaccination campaign. The timetable has accelerated at a disconcerting speed and, admittedly, no one could have imagined that research and clinical trials would lead so quickly to a result, even a partial one. This is perhaps what explains this contradiction, peculiar to France: we who had great hopes in the discovery of a vaccine, we become very distrustful and very hesitant when it occurs. Prime Minister, I know the difficulties of public action, even more so at this time of great uncertainty, which call us politicians to modesty and reason. The mistrust and doubts in the country must not be taken lightly, at the risk of the failure of the vaccination policy. We must strike a balance so that our strategy is neither rushed nor too slow. The security of all must not be sacrificed on the altar of any pressure, whether popular or economic. With the vaccine, we are given the opportunity not to reproduce the mistakes made since the beginning of the crisis. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore believes that three imperatives must be met in order to carry out the vaccination strategy. The first is to provide clear and transparent information to gain the confidence of the citizens: adherence to the vaccine project will not be without transparency, which means saying what we know, but also what we do not know. In this case, we regret that the results of the clinical trials were included in press releases before being published in scientific papers. Laboratories must publish their results, as some have begun to do recently. Indeed, the lack of transparency reflects the economic competition experienced by industrialists, which is not a reassurance. Given the significant public investment in this area, we have the right to demand strong guarantees. Beyond scientific results, transparency must also be achieved on pre-order contracts awarded by the European Commission. If we know the industrialists concerned and the companies involved, we do not know anything about the conditions of purchase, which are not anodizing for the users. What, for example, will the policy of compensation for adverse reactions be? It would be wise to clarify these aspects because the opacity around contracts can only fuel mistrust. I come specifically to patients, citizens. We must involve them as much as possible, because health democracy has been largely set aside since the beginning of the crisis. Since half of the French population does not plan to be vaccinated, communication is of crucial importance and must be as clear and as educational as possible, without infantilising the French. I agree with Professor Alain Fischer when he says that we need targeted and repeated messages, and that we must prohibit any argument of authority or injunction from the health authorities. Let us also stop the war communication that has prevailed so far in order to better value the spirit of responsibility and social cohesion. Let us fight more forcefully against false information, especially those relayed on the internet and social networks. To do this, we need to build on the network of community health professionals, including treating physicians. They will have a crucial role to play in restoring trust and obtaining informed consent from patients, and therefore they must be well informed themselves, which is not the case at this time. This information is all the more necessary because we still have a lot to learn from this virus, and because the first vaccines come from a new technology, called messenger RNA. Today, it is clear that we are lacking in hindsight on many aspects related to the virus and the vaccine, which is why we need to be careful, but the precautionary approach does not prevent us from demonstrating responsibility and pragmatism, and therefore from organizing ourselves now, in order to be ready. This brings me to the second imperative, namely the need for efficient logistics both in the emergency and in the long term. In this regard, too, lessons will have to be learned from past shortcomings in the management of masks and tests. There are many questions. What guarantees do we have regarding orders? France ordered a total of 200 million doses, but on what exact schedule? What do we know about manufacturing and production processes? Let us recall the great health dependency that we found ourselves in a few months ago. What about the decisions on delivery and distribution, knowing that the difficulty is reinforced by the conservation and transport conditions specific to the most promising vaccines, those of Pfizer and BioNTech and Moderna? To keep them at a temperature of -70 °C, to transport them in very short time is not impossible, but it is a logistical challenge that requires anticipation and method. We therefore expect the Government to issue clear instructions and listen. Some hospitals do not understand why they should act as departmental storage platforms: what do you answer them? Again, everyone remembers the management of masks – the conclusions of the reports of the commissions of inquiry of our house and the Senate are indeed instructive. Prime Minister, the vaccination campaign is likely to take a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u155	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u156	Vaccines will arrive as production and licensing progresses. There is much to bet that we will have to deal not with a vaccine, but with several vaccines whose delivery lines will differ. Have you integrated this additional difficulty into your strategy? The cost of these vaccines will also have to be considered, while the most advanced vaccines are the most expensive and vaccination will be fully managed by the State. Is this meant to evolve over time? I now come to the third imperative, that of a well-identified territorial organisation of proximity. You wanted to put general practitioners at the heart of the device, which we believe is relevant and even essential. This means listening to them: but they tell us that they will probably not be ready to start vaccination on January 4, despite the acceleration of the AEM authorisation schedule. We fear a lack of anticipation in the territories: the prefects, RHAs, doctors, pharmacists and nurses are waiting for the national slogan to decline in the territories, but they fear that they will lack time to do so. We need to identify the appropriate vaccination sites from now on. Why not rely on the covid-19 screening centres in which everyone could visit on prescription from a general practitioner? In the same way, EHPADs, which will be the first to be involved in the vaccination campaign, will not be ready: they must be accompanied and supported to identify needs, collect consents in an informed and secure manner, and organize vaccinations. We regret that elderly people living at home are not affected by the first phase of vaccination, while they are also vulnerable and potentially exposed, due in part to numerous visits by home care workers. If we join you in choosing the non-mandatory nature of vaccination because of our lack of hindsight, the liberal doctors warn on one important point: how do you intend to ensure their legal protection? Are you considering making them occasional collaborators in the public service? Finally, we stress the need for short-term follow-up of vaccinated persons to ensure that vaccination is complete and to prevent side effects. Long-term follow-up will also be required in order to know the real protection afforded by the vaccine and to make recommendations according to the specifics of the populations. To do this, we need a better and more efficient information system than the current digital health book. What are you planning? How do you intend to strengthen the pharmacovigilance device in this area? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM, SOC and GDR groups]] Colleagues, it is normal for us to have great hopes in the vaccine: the succession of confinements and deconfinations is not sustainable and weighs too heavily on our fellow citizens, our economy and our health. However, it is hasty and wrong to think that the vaccine will be enough to overcome the epidemic and we will probably have to live with this virus for a long time to come. That is why we need a clear and transparent strategy: prevention first and then screening. Finally, Prime Minister, if we were to retain only one watchword, it would be "anticipate in a concerted and transparent way", three dimensions that have often been lacking since the beginning of the crisis, but which, we hope, will be tomorrow at the meeting for the vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u157	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u158	Today we are discussing a crucial issue for the health and economic future of our country. Ten months after the outbreak of the pandemic, the arrival of a vaccine to fight covid-19 gives us great hope for our fellow citizens, as it gives us a glimpse of a way out of this crisis, which puts a severe strain on our society as a whole. It also raises questions and concerns, which intervene in a context of distrust of the Government, which, through its amphigouris, has not been able to inspire the confidence of the French to manage this health sequence, forgetting, to repeat Jean Simard, that "the words are wild birds that we never catch, once released. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u159	Nice quote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u160	The fiasco of masks, whose use has been conditioned to the state of the stocks, has greatly contributed to the decreditivity of your action. This is also the case with the test strategy which failed to prevent the second wave due to an embolism of the system and late results.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u161	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u162	Mr President Chassaigne, you know that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u163	This mistrust is also the result of a vertical or even infantilizing management by the executive, which has set aside intermediate bodies, local elected representatives as well as the legislative power, and which has favoured too long the firepower of a cruiser for fear of eating his hat. The more concerted vaccination strategy, announced on 4 December by the Government, marks a new step in the fight against this pandemic. While these measures go in the right direction, allowing for a prioritisation of the public while relying on city medicine, uncertainties remain on the concrete and operational declination of vaccination campaigns, in particular on the organisation of the transport of vaccines or on vaccination sites. Who will transport? What about access to vaccines in medical deserts? We expect this debate to shed some light on these various issues. The political sensitivity that I represent is culturally and historically, in its relation to science, an advocate of vaccination, not only because it allows everyone to protect themselves from a virus, but also because it is a collective act, which aims to protect others in order to achieve group immunity. That is why every effort must be made to ensure the widest possible access to the vaccine in the population, once we have the validations of the competent health authorities at European and national level. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left fully subscribes to the free and non-mandatory nature of the vaccine. These conditions seem essential to us in order to overcome the fears expressed by some of our fellow citizens. "I have only one passion, that of light," said Émile Zola. While vaccination membership was still wide a few years ago, the level of distrust is now one of the highest in Europe. Rather than in vaccination itself, the explanations of this phenomenon are to be sought in the deep democratic crisis that affects our country, as in the drifts related to the financialization of the pharmaceutical industry on the background of the multiplication of health scandals: who has punctured the eyes of men reproaching them for being blind! In the implementation of your strategy, trust will therefore be paramount, but it is not decreed, it is built. That is why full transparency must be given to the Government's vaccination strategy and to the way in which vaccines are produced and distributed. First of all, this involves clarifying the European Union's contracts with pharmaceutical laboratories, the sums of public money paid, the cost of vaccines and the guarantees requested from manufacturers. While some laboratories such as Pfizer are already sniffing out the margins they could generate, it seems imperative that all vaccines be marketed at a cost. It is unacceptable that this pandemic should fuel the white powder addiction of profits. This requires strengthening public resources and tools dedicated to pharmacovigilance, in order to have knowledge of the side effects of vaccines that may occur in the population and to put in place procedures to avoid them. It also means responding to all the concerns, even the mildest ones, such as the one that was described to me this afternoon about a possible danger of being vaccinated while carrying the virus. There are no small concerns! This also means involving citizens, local elected representatives and, more broadly, civil society actors, wherever possible, in the vaccination strategy. Therefore, the establishment of a citizen's collective in parallel with the creation of a vaccine strategy guidance board is in the right direction. However, we always wonder about its precise composition and prerogatives. Finally, this implies that Parliament should not be relegated to the role of spectator. That is why we propose that you take the date right now, Prime Minister, so that a debate of the same nature can take place in this House next March. We will then have the necessary step back to assess the first phases of vaccination in the elderly and the most vulnerable people facing the virus. In addition to democratic confidence, our country must regain its full sovereignty, be it health, economic or industrial. Everyone has seen this, this health crisis has passed our country on to the teller. It has shown the weakening and relegation of France in areas that previously made its strength, the consequences of neoliberal policies and the dogma of the reduction of public spending. Our social model has been damaged, as evidenced by the impoverishment of the public hospital, the deterioration of the working conditions of healthcare workers, the shortage of beds or the lack of protective equipment seen in the middle of the first wave. The reports of the two parliamentary committees of inquiry on the management of the health crisis have largely reflected these findings. We must also highlight the weakening of our industrial model in the drug sector. Despite the presence of flowers, our industrial production tools are now lacking in the national territory. Drug and equipment shortages have increased as a result of relocations to low-cost countries. The fault also of the financialization of the pharmaceutical sector, which requires ever more indecent rates of return, to the point that a group like Sanofi withdraws from the production of the less profitable active ingredients by creating an autonomous structure. By neglecting our health sovereignty, we have placed ourselves in a situation of dual economic and health dependence on large pharmaceutical companies. Finally, our model of public research, which represented excellence, has suffered from the lack of funding when we have very large researchers. Public research has thus been abandoned in the areas of respiratory viruses and RNA vaccines where we were at the forefront. We could certainly have anticipated and developed a vaccine before the pandemic occurred, thanks to the recognized public bodies, the CNRS – National Centre for Scientific Research – or the Institut Pasteur. All these findings call for new directions and strengthened public resources. Health and vaccines are common goods that we need to put outside of market law. The Government must play its full international role in ensuring that the vaccine against covid-19 is declared a "global public good" in order to open patents and ensure its access to as many people as possible, especially to poor countries. This is the objective of the European initiative campaign – ICE – launched by the French Communist Party and thirteen other European parties for a vaccine accessible to all. Given the influence of private logic, the priority must be to continue the public and citizen re-appropriation of vaccines and medicines. For a long time, we Communist parliamentarians have defended the idea of a public centre for medicine and research, which would support public control over the production and distribution of vaccines and medicines. This proposal, which aims to restore our health independence, must be debated. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] Finally, the creation of a vaccine should not exempt us from developing a comprehensive health strategy to address pandemic risks. It would focus on several priorities: the massive strengthening of our public health system, the development of a policy of prevention and public means – I say "public" – for vaccine and treatment research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u164	Mr Thomas Mesnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u165	Finally! Finally, we can have this debate in the National Assembly. I say "at last," because we were all waiting for a vaccine, the results of which would be considered effective and scientifically reliable. It's done: it's, they're here! Today, thanks to the international mobilisation and enhanced cooperation of the European scientific community, ten vaccines are in the final phase of development and four more are being studied by the MEA.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u166	[[At 18:15, Mr. David Habib replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u167	This European cooperation deserves to be stressed, because it is in crises that we reinvent ourselves and reform our best. This pandemic has led to the establishment of the first foundations of Europe's health. It took a global pandemic for us to finally start building it and to agree on the importance of an ambitious Europe of health. France has been the driving force behind these issues; You have been strong actors, ministers. We can only be proud of that. When a crisis is global, we can only respond collectively and build a common solution across borders. The resources mobilized in terms of funding and research to combat this virus, still unknown a year ago, are exceptional and unprecedented, just like the crisis we face. They explain the rapid development of vaccines, which cannot call into question the quality of scientific research carried out to find them and to counter the spread of covid-19. Since the beginning of the crisis, many misconceptions have been circulating on social networks and have sometimes even been broadcast on these banks. I have already had the opportunity to say this on several occasions, but I would like to reaffirm it here: we must trust our scientists and science, we are the country of Pasteur! Every new vaccine has the same fears and doubts, but the facts are there: vaccines save lives every day. When we voted in December 2017 to move from three to eleven mandatory vaccines for children, it was to save lives, let's not forget. Doubtful of the existence of vaccines is not a question in the right place. Immunization saves millions of lives around the world. The smallpox could have been eradicated with the vaccine. Tetanus, yellow fever, pertussis, measles, mumps are all serious diseases whose only name scares and which we manage to control thanks to vaccines. Vaccines save lives, fake news and boobsters kill. It is legitimate to question several aspects of the vaccines developed, but it is a question of doubt where it is necessary. In this way, we can ask ourselves about the manufacturing of vaccines, their storage, their side effects, the duration of immunity, how they will be transported and the stages of their deployment. These are questions to which the Government's vaccination strategy must answer and which we must answer. For vaccination to work, the French must have confidence in it; It's essential to save lives. Health care professionals need to have access to all vaccine information to reassure their patients. As we know, the French listen to their doctor; They trust them and all their caregivers. If collective immunity, which is essential to finally overcome this epidemic, goes through vaccination – I am sure – it must not, however, be at the expense of health security. Transparency should be the key to the immunization strategy; a multi-stage strategy that, as we have done since the beginning of the crisis, will have to call on everyone to be responsible. The President of the Republic announced this on 24 November: vaccination will not be compulsory, everyone will be free to be vaccinated or not. 200 million doses have already been ordered, in order to meet the needs of each Frenchman. Prime Minister, as you said during the presentation of the national vaccination strategy on 3 December, vaccination will be free of charge. These 200 million doses will therefore be free, because we must obtain this collective immunity, no matter what the cost. It is essential for us to finally resume a normal life, so that we can finally hold our loved ones against us again. As the end-of-year celebrations approach, vaccines sound like hope, the promise of a free 2021 year, after a year 2020 under bell. Until then, we still have to hold and maintain health barriers and restrictions together. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States: the first vaccination campaigns are launched. We're getting ready to start our own. For it to work and our collective immunity to take place, the vaccination campaign must be irreproachable. Reliability, security, transparency, trust and accountability must serve as a compass in the coming months. I know that and the Republic Group knows that: the Government will be at the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u168	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u169	"Where life embures, intelligence pierces an outcome [...]": Marcel Proust's sentence is quite relevant. The epidemics have changed the course of history, as the bubonic plague in 541 described by Procope de Caesarea; the last plague epidemic, which broke out in Marseilles in 1720 – it was the last plague wave in France; Smallpox, a new scourge responsible for 5 to 6 million deaths in France in the 18th century, whose disappearance was due to be the result of the vaccination in 1800, told the English doctor Jenner. In the 21st century, we are faced with covid-19. In a few decades, bacteria and viruses have been discovered, vaccination techniques invented and immunology laid the foundation. Vaccine based on attenuated viruses or bacteria, or vaccine using inactivated bacteria and viruses: these were the debates of the pastoral revolution. Charles Mérieux was then responsible for the development of the vaccine industry in France. Over the years, vaccination has become a popular medical act. It must be based primarily on public education, understanding of infectious diseases, knowledge of vaccines and awareness of individual and social health issues, which are the foundation on which vaccination policies succeed. While antiviral treatments are at a standstill, vaccines are rightly targeted. The vaccine race is accelerated, thanks to the innovation in genetic engineering and messenger RNA, chosen by some international biotechnology companies. France, absent in this technology, has suffered from this choice, as unfortunately is evidenced by the postponement of the Sanofi vaccine. While the UK and US authorities have given their green light to the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine, why is the European Medicines Agency slow to announce its decision? Why does the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products not use its right to temporary authorisation for use, the famous French ATU? The U.S. FDA – Food and Drug Administration has publicly reported on the efficacy and safety of Pfizer's RNA vaccine, as well as Britain and Canada. Does our state bureaucracy understand that we are going through the most serious health crisis in eighty years and that every day lost causes further drama? Prime Minister, let us go over the red tape and let us be in action! France is preparing for the arrival of vaccines and this new project is similar to Hercules's work. What are the conditions for a successful vaccination campaign? You need to meet a national production challenge, as well as a logistical challenge in terms of transportation, storage, refrigerated storage and distribution in all territories, regions, departments and municipalities. Unlike 2010, we can no longer rely on the EPRUS – Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Facility – which managed all stocks. Another challenge, not least, is who will inoculate the vaccine in two doses, three weeks apart. You know how much the H1N1 vaccine has been squandered; I remember that only 8.5% of the French had accepted it in 2009, despite a large-scale campaign – we were doing too much, it seems. What we have retained is that in order to be effective, you have to solve this complex project. After the battle and the coucacs concerning the masks, then the tests, the state no longer has the right to error. How will you organize the fight against distrust and denial of risk, so as not to lose the battle of vaccination? In 2009, the State had ordered 94 million doses of H1N1 vaccine from four French companies to vaccinate 47 million citizens. Unfortunately, we have seen the result: in France, there is more fear of the vaccine than of the disease. However, you have planned 200 million doses, i.e. 100 million people. Why these numbers? What's the calendar? You plan to mobilize all health professionals; And they remember the 2009 campaign. What will be the organization of medical offices, pharmacies, nurses? What will be their specific pricing? These are the questions they ask themselves: do not delay in answering them. Finally, let's talk about your strategy for priority audiences. How many French people will be vaccinated in March and how many in June? As a matter of priority, it is necessary to protect all professionals, front-line soldiers from the pandemic, caregivers of all statuses – both public and private, both in institutions and in liberals – which corresponds to about 1.4 million people. At the same time, the wide-ranging vaccination campaign for citizens who suffer from long-term conditions, i.e. chronic diseases, or who are at risk of co-morbidity, including the elderly in EHPAD, is being considered. Let's take Germany as an example! But be careful, low doses and stocks may lead us far into this vaccination. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Prime Minister, to conclude, I'm telling you, you're a prick! The Republicans Group wants vaccination to be successful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u170	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u171	Already a year ago the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 left its usual host, the bat of the forest of the Hubei, to – with or without intermediate – infect humans. This is most likely the result of local deforestation, which has brought animals back close to Wuhan's population. Let us not forget that this bat has an unparalleled immune system, which allows it to shelter ten to twenty different strains of coronavirus. The signal is clear to those who might doubt it: plant health depends on animal health, and animal health depends on our own health. Therefore, scientists started a race against the clock, facilitated in its initial stages. Indeed, the most fundamental part on the nature of the virus, its mode of entry into our cells through the viral protein S – also called Spike protein – had been elucidated since the early 2000s, following the two outbreaks of coronavirus that had been forgotten a little bit: that of MERS-CoV – the coronavirus of respiratory syndrome in the Middle East – and that of SARS – severe acute respiratory syndrome. High-speed sequencing techniques quickly made it possible to draw up the identity card at the same time across the globe. It is then some 250 vaccine researches that have been deployed, combining all possible strategies, from the virus inactivated to the viral protein as antigen, the viral platform with integrated covid-19 gene or the use of DNA or RNA nucleic acids. If this last technique has not yet been used, let us not forget that it is still the result of more than twenty years of research. This is especially the messenger RNA, which encodes the famous S protein of the virus. Produced by chemical synthesis, coated with lipids to protect it from degradation and allow its better penetration into our cells, it will produce, after translation into S protein, the corresponding protective antibodies. Thus trained to identify the latter, our body will block it, destroy the virus and thus protect us from infection and pathology. These data quickly left the world of basic research and were then developed by biotechnology companies, biotech companies, which finalized this breaking innovation. They then joined large pharmaceutical groups, the only ones able to fund clinical trials in tens of thousands of individuals and to ensure the bioproduction and distribution of hundreds of millions of vaccine doses. These final steps were carried out in close collaboration with clinicians and evaluation agencies to demonstrate the rigour of the studies conducted and the results obtained. All of this was made available on the networks from the beginning and recently published in the largest scientific journals. The conditions for placing vaccines on the market are strengthened compared to those of other medicinal products: EU regulations require 100% quality control of vaccine lots before they are placed on the market. The results of the clinical trial were described not as a success, but as a real triumph. The only uncertainty concerns the duration of immunity thus acquired, which of course cannot yet be attested beyond three months. We still have to take advantage of this extraordinary success by raising the logistical challenge, the last lock to regain our freedom. It will also be an opportunity to question our health sector on many aspects. Do we provide sufficient resources for health research? Should not the organization of the latter be rethought for greater efficiency? Shouldn't collaboration between the public and private sectors be further encouraged?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u172	He's asking good questions, Berta!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u173	Very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u174	Would it not be time to create an investment fund capable of supporting biotechs in their development in ETI – mid-size companies – rather than seeing the product of our research go abroad because they are unable to fund clinical trials?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u176	Has our industry sufficiently integrated the fundamental principles of open innovation? Are our evaluation structures quite effective, from the study of the means available to the personal protection committees to the definition of the time limit for the inquiry of the Economic Committee for Health Products? Finally, the emergence in the general public discourse of acronyms and terms such as PCR – polymerase chain reaction –, RT-PCR – reverse transcriptase – polymerase chain reaction –, RNA – messenger, recombinant virus, cellular immunity, humoral immunity, collective immunity and neutralizing antibodies shows the urgency of pursuing an ambitious policy to develop the scientific and technological culture of the population, which would be the best way to twist the neck to the populist and conspiracy inepties that some media relay.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u178	The return to normality will depend on our ability to vaccinate to prevent pathology and limit the spread of infection. The vaccination will have to take place in a climate of confidence and transparency, the choice of Professor Alain Fischer, the creation of a guidance board for the vaccination strategy and the weekly publication of possible adverse reactions by the regional pharmacovigilance centres will be the guarantees. The strategy set out today by the Prime Minister will ensure that it is carried out smoothly. The identification of priority audiences and a multi-stage schedule will achieve the three objectives we need to set ourselves: reducing serious forms and mortality, protecting caregivers, and ensuring vaccine safety. The announced strategy also guarantees accessibility, thanks to a multiplication of vaccination sites and free of charge: this universality is essential to protect everyone's health and to offer all the same opportunities in the face of the virus, in accordance with the founding principles of our social security. The vaccine will not be mandatory. We will all have to do a pedagogy, so that horizontal communication, involving all health actors, can be carried out as quickly as possible. We will also have to maintain our efforts by continuing to apply the barriers and limit social contacts, including, of course, during the end-of-year celebrations. We have vaccines, we have a vaccination strategy, we finally see the light at the end of the tunnel. We must now throw our last forces into the fight against the virus, until the vaccination of as many as possible allows us to resume the course of life that we want. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I want to express my admiration to the thousands of researchers, engineers and technicians, academic and private, from all over the world, who, thanks to hard work, day and night, seven days a week, offer us hope today, in an incredible time. Congratulations to the scientists for sharing their data, congratulations to the clinical trial planners, tens of thousands of volunteers and government authorities, who have been able to find the necessary flexibility. They offered us the promise to save a considerable number of lives and a way out of this global disaster. Now it is up to us to transform that hope into a responsible attitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u179	He's the best of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u180	No, of us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u181	He set the bar high!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u182	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u183	We are gathered to discuss the health strategy, in particular the vaccination strategy. The vaccine is obviously an important hope, after a year 2020 completely affected by covid-19. Nevertheless, as we all know, its success requires five conditions to be met. The first is to vaccinate about 60% of French people: of course we invite them to do so. The second is that the vaccine has a lasting efficacy of more than a few months. The third is that he not only protects the patient, but also avoids transmission. The fourth is the absence of serious side effects, and the fifth is that the virus does not mutate along the way. We therefore believe that the vaccine is a hope, but that it cannot be the only one – popular wisdom generally recommends not to put all its eggs in the same basket. This is all the more true since the vaccine will have all its effects in our country only in the second half of the year or even in the end of 2021. So we still have several months to live with the virus. The Action Together group has therefore proposed to the Government a strategy that also adopts the form of a triptych. It is first of all a question of testing massively, sometimes systematically. We now know how to spot the virus, especially in wastewater: we can therefore concentrate the use of PCR and antigenic tests where it most circulates. I do not rule out making this screening compulsory. Our public health law imposes more than 30 medical examinations, some of which are much more invasive than the introduction of a simple cotton swab into the nose. Therefore, we must provide ourselves with the means to detect the virus whenever possible. Secondly, we recommend that positive people and contact cases be accompanied, in a dignified and humane manner, of course, by ensuring that they have all the means necessary for isolation, that they do their shopping, that they take medication and that they take care of the children if necessary. Finally, of course, isolation must be controlled. It is absurd, ladies and gentlemen, that we risk a fine of 135 euros by leaving home without a certificate to walk his dog, but that we risk nothing, if we have a certificate, to come out despite a diagnosis of covid-19, at the risk of contaminating other people, who may then find themselves in resuscitation in the hospital or even in the cemetery. Of course, we trust our fellow citizens, but we know – we saw it last week, when 500 people celebrated without any respect for confinement and barrier actions – that there will always be people who violate the rules. That is why those who are tested positive have to isolate themselves, and that is why it is necessary to control them and punish those who would expose their fellow citizens to contamination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u184	10000 euros fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u185	[[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] That is the strategy we are proposing. By the time the year 2021 begins, it appears to us as the only possible – I say the only possible – until the vaccine produces its effects. We implore national representation and the Government to follow it, because we know that a third confinement would not be possible psychologically, economically or financially. In addition to vaccination, we therefore need to change the health strategy: to detect massively, to isolate by accompanying vulnerable people, and of course to control more strictly the confinement of those affected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u186	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u187	In the preamble, I would like to say that I am neither a doctor nor a specialist, especially in vaccines. I will therefore be careful not to state with too much certainty the claims relating to such a sensitive subject, which concerns the health of people. Like many, I listen, I read, I analyze the different opinions to make an opinion; I come to ask myself some questions and, as a parliamentarian, to question the Government. In June 2018, the High Health Authority published a fact sheet detailing the prerequisites for the development of vaccine recommendations, including a good understanding of the infectious disease and its epidemiological characteristics, and sufficient evidence of the efficacy of the vaccine and its tolerance, including data on the immune response measured following vaccination. These are usually obtained during the clinical development of the vaccine and then lead to the issuance of a marketing authorisation. Based on the benefit-risk ratio of the vaccine, the authorisation defines the indications and contraindications. Do we have these guarantees? Where are we, Minister? It is reported that the European Medicines Agency has already ordered several million doses, but will meet at the end of December to decide on a European marketing authorisation. How much is the price of orders? Is it necessary to proceed in this order? Have any guarantees been provided in the event that authorisation is not granted? Can you certify transparency in the manufacture and price of the vaccine? Experts explain that one of the vaccines requires storage at less than 70 degrees or even less than 80 degrees Celsius. Can you guarantee that we are able to meet this technical challenge? The President of the Republic reiterated that the vaccine would not be compulsory, which was a good thing, but a health passport would be under development, which would have to be presented to the boarding of all planes belonging to national companies, which provided 80 per cent of the world's traffic. Can you confirm that it will not be mandatory to get vaccinated to access certain services? I come to the question of the strategy, to answer the title of the debate, but not just the vaccination strategy. At the end of November, a statement by Professor Arnaud Fontanet, epidemiologist and member of the scientific council that the President of the Republic consults to make his decisions, made me think. According to him, the vaccine will not be 100% effective: it will not give the assurance of not getting sick; it will not prevent transmission of the virus; it will cause side effects. Now, you know that mistrust is high in a large part of the population. Your management of the epidemic has not contributed to building a relationship of trust with citizens, particularly because of the conflicting discourses about the effectiveness of wearing the mask and the fiasco of tests. I am convinced that transparency is the key to the confidence of our citizens. All decisions on covid-19 vaccine must be in the public interest only, not the private interests of the pharmaceutical industry. All too often, the costs of research in particular are borne by the public sector, but profits and patents are collected by private companies. Why do we no longer call on the Institut Pasteur, by giving it the means to tame, control and eliminate the virus? We have mentioned this on several occasions, the Institut Pasteur in Lille is studying a medicine, and the final results are planned for May 2021. We must speak frankly to the French: the vaccine is a tool for fighting covid-19, but not necessarily the miracle solution. At the same time, we need to work on therapeutic remedies to treat sick people, to maintain preventive measures to avoid increasing contamination and to think about alternatives to containment, as we did by proposing a comprehensive plan in November. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In conclusion, we reaffirm that France cannot do without a public drug hub – several colleagues have pointed out – and more broadly, health products. To a lesser extent, it must reinvest massively in public research in this field. Trust is not decreed, it is earned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u188	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u189	The whole world has been facing an unprecedented health crisis for several months now. Faced with this unknown virus, we had to adapt and find emergency solutions – health, but also economic. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the health professionals who, since the beginning of the epidemic, have mobilized heavily to treat patients with covid-19. The months we have been through have been painful, and if the virus, which has caused hundreds of thousands of deaths around the world, is an invisible enemy, the suffering it has caused in our fellow citizens is real. After a first containment that was difficult, the second, although absolutely necessary, was experienced even more painfully by the French, who, however, were able to show self-denial and resilience. But didn't he come, the time of hope? A vaccine is finally within our reach; It is both a scientific feat and a hope, the hope of a better life. It must allow us to return to a normal life, a life that we lack so much for all, a life made of tenderness, embraces, a life in which we have the freedom to move, to travel, to cultivate, to undertake – in short, to live. This afternoon, we are gathered to discuss together the strategy we will adopt to finally defeat this epidemic. This debate is indispensable not only for democratic reasons, but also because it responds to the main expectation of the French, which is quite legitimate: that of transparency. To be worthy of the confidence of the French, we must be transparent. Moreover, "it is not enough to know the truth, it must still be proclaimed," declared Pasteur, the inventor of vaccination; he was aware of the ultimate importance of explaining and demonstrating the collective utility of the vaccine. I would like to stress the role that we will have to play in the coming months; Firstly, the Committee on Social Affairs has full competence to monitor the deployment of our vaccination policy. That is why, as chairman of the committee, I have decided to refer the issue of our vaccination strategy to the Parliamentary Office for Scientific and Technological Options. This approach will enable parliamentarians to be informed about the complex scientific issues of immunization. The Office delivered its first Opinion yesterday; They are encouraging, but above all illuminating, on the conditions for success of our strategy. Membership in the vaccine is fundamental. Our strategy must therefore be based in particular on a good coordination of actors in the territories, involving city medicine and local and regional authorities. We will also have the opportunity to hear from the independent scientific authorities responsible for validating marketing authorisations. Prime Minister, three steps will mark the vaccination journey that the Government is about to implement; At each of these stages, the Committee on Social Affairs will engage in constructive discussions with you, always with a view to transparency, and with a single aim: to inform and reassure our fellow citizens. You have also announced the establishment of a vaccine strategy guidance board, which will be responsible for supporting the Government, including citizens. We can only welcome this approach. Finally, as parliamentarians, our action will also take place on the ground, at the meeting of caregivers and the population. Since the outbreak began, we have been many on these benches to visit hospitals, but also EHPADs. Today, we still have to keep listening to the field and follow the deployment of the first steps of vaccination in our territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group as well as on some benches of the Dem group]] Prime Minister, as you will have understood, our common objective is to ensure the health of our citizens, in the greatest transparency. We know how to count on your commitment and your concern to inform the national representation over the various moments of the deployment of our vaccination strategy. We walk together and it is together that we will manage to cross the last meters of this path that seems endless to us. For, in the end, life alone counts, life alone, life alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u190	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u191	The health, economic and social crisis has caused much suffering, anxiety, misunderstanding and even opposition to the measures taken by the Government. Many French people have strong mistrust. The vaccine is a solution to protect us from the virus, ensure the safety of the most fragile and end successive confinements; But the French still have to regain confidence. For this to happen, transparency, both in the process of developing the vaccine in the laboratory and in its reliability, must be a priority; A major awareness-raising campaign must also be launched now so that it can be better accepted. This transparency is essential to prepare the French. There is also a need to set a clear course and the objectives to be achieved. At a time when distrust of the vaccine has become important – only 53% of French people want to be vaccinated – it is essential that a true vaccination ethic be adopted. Vaccination is a medical act like any other; As such, it requires prior informed information on the relationship between benefits and risks, as well as consent. Health actors, including liberal health professionals, general practitioners, as close as possible to the field, liberal nurses and pharmacists, must be involved as upstream as possible. These health professionals have the confidence of the French because they are at their side on a daily basis. Prime Minister, when will this vaccination guide be produced for all healthcare professionals? They're waiting for him. Of course he'll be welcome. Every Frenchman must be allowed to perform a serological test before being vaccinated, so that he knows whether he holds antibodies through collective immunity or a possible contamination that has passed unnoticed in the absence of symptoms: in France, more than 2 million people have already been infected with covid-19. It is necessary to avoid a territorial approach disconnected from the French which would consist of the creation of immense vaccination centres far away from where they live; On the contrary, it is necessary to take as a basis the usual health structures, adapting them and giving them additional resources with the support of the local and regional authorities, very invested during this crisis. And don't forget, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the members of the Government, the deputies, who are on the ground and who have been heavily involved during this health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u193	How do you envisage the launch of the vaccination campaign in 27 countries on the same day? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we must be able to adopt clear communication and full transparency on the stocks available, on the priority audiences, but also on the efficacy of the vaccine and finally on the potential side effects, in order to dispel all polemics. In the face of distrust, the only right answer is to explain and reassure. The risk of mild side effects, more common than usual, must be well explained to people receiving the vaccine; If not, some of them may not receive the second injection. In this context, how will pre-vaccination medical consultations be organised? Will our doctors be able to cope with all these consultations? Will the High Health Authority make recommendations regarding incompatibilities for certain patients or residents according to their state of health? It is essential to put in place an extremely proactive policy to initially vaccinate a large majority of people at risk and the healthcare staff, you have told us; I am of course thinking of the elderly dependents, the residents of EHPADs, the health care providers in the hospital, in the city or in health facilities, as well as the staff of the medical and social institutions, and finally the people with co-morbidity who are likely to develop more serious forms of the virus in the event of contamination. For these risk groups, the rule should be vaccination, and non-vaccination only the exception. Other questions still need to be decided urgently. How many vaccines will the facilities receive, and when? I am thinking of our designated hospitals in each department, which must allocate the doses to the various institutions. What logistics to transport, refrigerate, distribute vaccines in accordance with the specific conservation conditions of each? How to support, in particular, EHPADs for the rapid deployment of vaccination? How will the monitoring, short- and long-term monitoring by the effectors themselves, by the classical pattern of pharmacovigilance, by pharmaco-epidemiological studies, by population cohort follow-ups be carried out? Finally, when will the vaccine really play a role, since the president of the Scientific Council believes that the arrival of vaccines against covid-19 will only change the course of the epidemic in France from the summer of 2021? What steps do you intend to take by then, Prime Minister, to deal with a possible third wave that could occur as early as February? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On all these subjects, we await your clarification: this battle we cannot lose and we must win it all together. Everything is based on the individual decision to be vaccinated and therefore on the freedom of everyone; and it is because I do not forget what humanity owes to the vaccine that, for my part, Prime Minister, I will be vaccinated as soon as possible alongside you, with the Minister of Health and with the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u194	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u195	[[Applause on several benches of the SOC and LaREM groups]] I would like to go out for a moment from my reserve session chair to indicate, Mr. Perrut, that I will be happy to accompany you. Thus, all sensitivities will be represented. Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u196	While Europe is hard hit by this second wave, what is at the heart of the vaccination strategy is simply hope – the hope for the French to return to a social life, a normal life; the hope of returning to work and, for many, finding work; the hope of going to the theatre, to the concert, to the cinema; hope for artists, creators, authors to find the boards to inspire our emotions; the hope for the merchants, the restaurateurs, the coffee makers, the night places to give us back the joy; hope for the beneficiaries of the recovery plan, some of whom have pointed to redistributive insufficiency, but which will not be able to deploy if confidence does not return. And there will be no confidence of economic actors without health confidence. In June, we celebrated the return of happy days, when a month earlier, scientists had alerted us to the possible occurrence of a second wave; This very morning, the World Health Organization, WHO, confirmed that the risk of a third wave was very high. The happy days are tomorrow for the scientists. Because we are dealing – as you have reminded us, Prime Minister, Minister of Health – with a scientific feat...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u197	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u198	[[Smile]] ...because of the exceptional delays that with this extraordinary advance that is the technology of messenger RNA, does not disappoint to the vaccino-sceptics, does not disappoint to the scientific-sceptics – the term does not exist, I know well, but at the rate that we are going, it could soon be validated by the French Academy –, does not disappoint these victims of the Dunning-Kruger effect, this cognitive bias which bears the names of the two psychologists who have shown that the less we know, the more we believe to know – phenomenon exacerbated by social networks. I'm not saying we don't have to argue, of course. This parliamentary debate is important, and I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the work of many colleagues, and in particular those of the OPECST, chaired by Cédric Villani. This is a debate with which the French must be involved. We must debate, we must even doubt: "it is not the doubt that drives mad, it is the certainty," Nietzsche reminded us, and it is even the doubt that drives science forward. But doubt must not give rise to distrust of science, and that is where the peak line lies. Let us remember once again that vaccination has completely eradicated smallpox and polio at 99%; it has reduced measles deaths by 80%; Each year, it saves 3 million people from death who are exposed to diphtheria, tetanus, measles, pertussis. Only one thing has had such an impact on mortality in the history of humanity, it is the sanitation of the water. The vaccine protects, for the first time in any case, against serious forms, but we do not know, it is true, for how long; Alain Fischer recalled it this morning on a large national radio, we are not sure that it prevents transmission. We will therefore need further hindrance, but let us look at what the vaccine brings: the protection of the most fragile and the prospect of collective immunity. We must therefore convince the French, who do not always understand the decisions taken in recent weeks. Because this health challenge is also a democratic challenge, so essential in our vaccination strategy. Free of charge, universality, coverage of the entire territory: all this requires a complex logistical organization, and in this regard I welcome the services of the State, in particular those of the Ministry of Health. The logistical question, as you pointed out, is obviously not negligible. We must also involve the French by being transparent, especially when we have rightly chosen a strategy based on the absence of an injunction and on free choice. This, of course, begins with health professionals, who, as local actors, are in the best position to convince and who will need more support. Vaccinating is a bit like receiving in consultation. [[MM. Cédric Villani and Jean-François Eliaou applaud]] Finally, because viruses travel without passports and visas, we need global solidarity so that "global public good" is not just a slogan. We need European coordination: it was lacking in the first wave, but it is on the way this time. There is now a real European diplomacy, including in the surveillance of the virus, thanks to a strict virological watch in the event that the virus is forced to mutate even more than it did in the United Kingdom. Europe must therefore develop its own scientific tools. It is an issue of effectiveness in the fight against the virus, and of course it is also a question of European sovereignty for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u199	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u200	What a success, Madame Lebec!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u201	The vaccination strategy submitted by the Government is a new step in the war that we have been waging for almost a year against the virus. The next steps will be decisive and the challenges we will face collectively are immense. France has been preparing this strategy for months, in the scientific and industrial fields, thanks to the mobilization of researchers, laboratories, public and private research organisations and thousands of volunteers, in France and internationally. Rarely will collective intelligence and international scientific genius have been so mobilized for a common purpose: to develop an effective, reliable vaccine capable of saving lives. Beyond this international commitment, it is also a matter of guaranteeing France's production and access to a sufficient number of vaccines. The President of the Republic has made it a priority from the outset, with the aim of making the vaccine a global public good, available, accessible and affordable for all nations. Thanks to the coalition initiated within the framework of the G20, this fight led by France has been supported and shared: we can be proud of it. At European level, France has fought for a concerted and collective response. How could our fellow citizens have tolerated competition between Member States, even though we regret more than 300,000 deaths in Europe? So, in order to ensure a proportional distribution of vaccines between the states and a fair price, we have taken the initiative to create a task force with Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. It relies on the European Commission, which is responsible for negotiating and contracting with laboratories. Here I would like to pay tribute to the work carried out by Ministers Agnès Pannier-Runacher and Clément Beaune: he was instrumental in bringing the European strategy to fruition. The results are here: six European pre-purchase contracts have been signed and others are under negotiation. A distribution key has been established: France will benefit from nearly 200 million doses, guaranteeing maximum vaccination coverage. We are now waiting only for authorisations from the European Medicines Agency. It is at this price that we can guarantee our citizens the quality and safety of the vaccine. The effectiveness of this strategy will also be achieved by securing the supply of doses: it will be ensured by industrial production and the deployment of logistical devices. Again, the measures will be taken: the first two vaccines which may be authorised will be partly manufactured in France, which will constitute a new guarantee of supply and a recognition of our sector in the European system. The companies Delpharm and Recipharm are already investing in their production sites in Eure-et-Loir and Indre-et-Loire to meet the demand, as is the Sanofi group, which is committed to producing its vaccine in our territory. Yes, we can be proud of our French health product industry and its thousands of employees, who did not fail at the heart of the crisis and who still demonstrate their skills today. Finally, we believe in the performance of our supply chain, which has demonstrated its total responsiveness to the peak of the crisis. The challenge will be to store and deliver vaccines to thousands of vaccination facilities under the required storage conditions. The investments to take these requirements into account have already been made, but only a cohesion of the whole chain of actors in the field and local and regional authorities will ensure the full success of this campaign. Colleagues, the international mobilization to find a vaccine and save lives reminds us of how much investment in future technologies is essential. We measure the extent to which the majority has made the right choices since the beginning of the legislature, by massively supporting industry and innovation, as well as investment in our productive apparatus, by a reduction in taxation, the modernisation of our factories and by simplifying the procedure for the establishment of new sites,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u203	... by supporting research and development – R&amp;D – and our research system, with the new law of research programming for the years 2021 to 2030, through the development of our industrial fabric and the scientific and economic attractiveness of the territory to which we are working. It's not just about getting better international rankings, it's about increasing the resilience that is needed in the country. We achieved good results during this crisis, with a movement of reindustrialization and the creation of state-of-the-art research centres. We still need to amplify this movement to strengthen our industrial sovereignty, particularly in the area of health. This is the meaning of the recovery plan adopted in the framework of the finance law as well as the 600 million euros dedicated to the relocation of strategic industries. Many projects are already supported by the health products sector: I am thinking of the company Seqens, for the production of active ingredients. It is also the meaning of the fourth investment programme for the future, worth €20 billion, which will make it possible to finance massively innovation in our strategic areas. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond this industrial innovation policy, we must protect and encourage the French spirit of technological conquest: I am thinking of Louis Pasteur, Pierre and Marie Curie, whom many seem to forget, as well as Emmanuelle Charpentier, Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2020, to whom I pay tribute. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, anti-vaccins, conspiracyists, suspicious professionals, populists frozen in their ideology and ego have never healed anything, have never discovered anything and will never be France's future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u205	[[At 19.05 a.m., Mr. Richard Ferrand replaced Mr. David Habib in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u206	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u207	At last, sensible words!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u208	She hasn't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u209	It's humor, relax!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u210	The question that all French people are asking is very simple: are we going to live a year 2021 identical to the year 2020? Are we finally getting out of this pandemic? Since last March, there have been many disillusionments. The triptych "test, trace, isolate", so promising, proved to be a tool little and especially too late used. The Government has been constantly in a situation of reaction rather than anticipation. If we want the barrier gestures to be only a distant memory in a few months, we must take into account not only the psychological saturation that affects the French, but above all their scepticism in the face of the arrival of a vaccine against covid-19. As we know, the French fear this vaccine; 59% say they do not intend to be vaccinated. If our fellow citizens are so suspicious, it is primarily because of a clear lack of pedagogy and transparency. We must shed light on the conditions for the creation of this vaccine and its reliability, in order to regain the confidence of the population. Medicine is not an exact science, but experts seem to agree that the efficacy of this vaccine would be satisfactory. However, there are still some concerns about vaccine tolerance: we must also talk about it. We must provide all the information, so that everyone can decide in their own soul and conscience to be vaccinated. It appears that the side effects of the vaccine are more common in young and healthy subjects. In addition, if developed vaccines avoid triggering serious forms, they do not limit the transmission of the virus. From the analysis in terms of risk-related benefits, it would appear that this vaccination campaign is more likely to focus on older people, those with co-morbidities and health care workers as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u211	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u212	I am therefore very surprised to see that elderly people who are isolated from home are not among the priority audiences in the first phase.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u213	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u214	I would also like to point out that for the Republican Group, it is important to allow everyone the choice of whether or not to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u215	Yeah, it's freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u216	Science without consciousness is only the ruin of the soul.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u217	Without confidence, there can be no large-scale vaccination campaign. Pedagogy should be the key to the vaccination strategy. We are also concerned about the "Health Reporting" platform, which records vaccine adverse events. According to caregivers, pharmacists and patients, this tool is not practical enough to be useful in the analysis of vaccine impacts. We are also fortunate to be able to observe what is going to happen in neighbouring countries. Yes, the European Union makes a collective choice of prudence and precaution. We cannot blame him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u218	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u219	Let us therefore take advantage of this time to study the various vaccination campaigns already launched in Russia, Great Britain and the United States. The logistical challenge of vaccination, as well as the response of the populations to the different vaccines in real-life situations, will be particularly useful for the implementation of our own strategy. In this regard, you must rely on local and regional authorities to succeed in the vaccination campaign. We may have an opportunity to stop an unprecedented health crisis. Do not make the mistake of leaving local authorities on the roadside: they know the people of their territory much better than the SRAs and have the infrastructure and the material means to carry out this deployment. Local elected officials and registered health professionals enjoy a strong capital of trust with our fellow citizens...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u220	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u221	They have the experience!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u222	...and they will be able to take all their responsibilities. After poor management of the mask stock, a delay in the deployment of tests, but also difficulties in supplying influenza vaccines, hopefully we will not suffer the same unrepair. All those of our fellow citizens who wish to do so must be able to be vaccinated as soon as possible. We were elected, you were elected...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u223	They've mostly been appointed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u224	...to govern. To govern is to foresee, but it is also, above all, to act in responsibility. The society we know has become procedural, it is true. The criminal and political responsibility of each and every one of us can be put at stake, both in court and in front of our constituents. But it is precisely this sense of responsibility that must lead us to act...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u225	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u226	...and not to hide behind a poll or comment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u227	All right, Mrs. Brenier!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u228	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The health, social and economic situation is unprecedented; It requires on your part, as well as on ours, a full and complete commitment to the future of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u229	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u230	Mr Jean-François Eliaou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u231	Concerned about the lives and health of others is an arduous task, sometimes perilous, but always exhilarating. The definition and implementation of the vaccine strategy against covid-19 is this ambition for the benefit of our citizens. Vaccination is a tremendous advance for humanity, in that it has eradicated multiple deadly infectious diseases. In recent months, several vaccines against covid-19, using a variety of technologies, have been developed by force: it is very good news and scientific prowess as it has rarely been realized. The unprecedented effort of researchers from all over the world, but also the unprecedented financial investment of governments, particularly in Europe, has made it possible to obtain effective vaccines in record time. However, the virus will not disappear from a snapping of fingers. Its eradication is not decreed, even after the arrival of the vaccines. The success of vaccination campaigns will depend, inter alia, on the availability and delivery of sufficient vaccination doses. It is also important to stress the central role of logistics, which guarantees efficiency and is able to meet enormous challenges. For example, it allows vaccination doses to be delivered to the approximately 10,000 collective establishments receiving the elderly, without breaking the cold chain, twice as it involves two injections at three weeks apart. Vaccines should be administered by treating physicians, after informed consent and in collaboration with caregivers, all of whom are closest to their patients. This proximity vaccination will be a guarantee of success, for the therapeutic aspects of course, but also and perhaps above all because the treating doctors benefit from the confidence of our fellow citizens. The mission of national representation, our mission, is paramount. It is defined in article 24 of the Constitution, which provides that the Parliament "supervises the action of the Government" and "assesses public policies". The Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices participates in this mission. It was brought before the President of the National Assembly and the Social Affairs Committee for the purpose of evaluating the vaccination strategy decided by the Government to deal with the covid-19 epidemic, on the basis of the recommendations made by the High Health Authority. After numerous hearings, including the main players in this policy, OPECST, of which I am one of the rapporteurs, submitted yesterday a first report aimed at enlightening national representation. It addresses four areas: scientific knowledge and uncertainties about the virus, disease, immune response and vaccine response; the vaccination strategy, its progressive nature and the logistical means implemented; the economic, industrial and financial dimension; the problem of distrust and the challenge of vaccination. The vaccination strategy adopted by the Government, to which I fully adhere, is voluntary and progressive: it consists in vaccinating at first our oldest and most fragile fellow citizens, those who are at risk of developing a serious form of the disease. It is based on scientific data publications, which conclude that the benefit-risk balance is favourable to the population affected by the first phase of vaccination. I would remind you that this vaccination will concern adults. Let me stress, ladies and gentlemen, its acceptability. As the questioning and doubts about the disease and the vaccines used are legitimate, this acceptability will require the full transparency and accuracy of the information communicated to our citizens, by permanent pharmacovigilance, by a constant call for civic responsibility, each to protect itself for the well-being and health of all and, finally, by the free and non-mandatory nature of vaccination. I hope that this is a local vaccination, which puts on the front line the treating doctors, true vectors of trust with our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to continue our monitoring and evaluation mission with vigilance, precision and impartiality, at the service of our fellow citizens, throughout the deployment of the vaccine strategy and until the virus is removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u232	[[Prime Minister gets a notebook and a pen]] Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u233	Ah, Prime Minister will take notes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u234	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u235	I would also like to draw your attention to the issues involved in the deployment of vaccination in the context of the fight against covid-19. The first question is the timing of supply. According to your information, Prime Minister, the Government plans to vaccinate 1 million people in EHPADs from the end of December and in January, and then 14 million vulnerable people from February. However, we are again confronted with the problem we experienced during the first confinement for the supply of masks or tests: a limited number of producers must supply the whole world. The competition between countries for such a vital asset is likely to limit the number of doses that France will be able to acquire in the short term. The months of January and February are not a very distant horizon: in reality, it is tomorrow. The announcement of the delay in the Franco-British vaccine developed by Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline suggests that significant tensions may affect the supply of vaccines in a short time. These two suppliers will only be able to offer doses from the end of 2021. Let me turn to my second point: the deployment of the vaccination strategy at the local level. Will the Government keep its promise to involve local and regional authorities in crisis management? Local actors are ready to implement the vaccination campaign on the ground. It is only at the territorial level that access to vaccines can be guaranteed to all French people, thanks, among other things, to the action of local communities and health professionals, as well as to the installation of vaccination centres. Will the Government finally give real confidence to its partners, which are already operational throughout the country? I would like to address a third point, not least the following: the follow-up of vaccinated persons. The vaccination campaign should not be limited to injections of the vaccine; It must be prolonged by actual follow-up of vaccinated persons, by monitoring cohorts. This will be an important element in ensuring public confidence in the vaccine. This long-term follow-up should verify the efficacy of the vaccine and the absence of side effects. It will provide us with the essential data to ensure the success of the strategy to combat covid-19 at the same time as the population's participation in the vaccination campaign. To this end, the Government must specify the modalities for access to medical follow-up after vaccination. In these circumstances, can the Government assure us that it will offer access to vaccination to a quarter of our citizens in the first months of 2021? It is most likely that we will have to wait until the end of spring 2021, or even the end of summer, for our country to have sufficient immunization coverage to stop the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u236	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u237	This optimal vaccination coverage will be all the more difficult to achieve as vaccination is a source of reluctance and even distrust among our fellow citizens, which must also be taken into account. In its strategy, the Government seems to regard immunization as the miracle remedy that will remove in the short term the restrictions that our country has suffered for far too long. However, in the face of so many assumptions, there is a need for alternative solutions to keep the epidemic under control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u238	That's what I said. You had to listen to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u239	To avoid a third wave and a new, a priori catastrophic reconfinition, it would be illusory to rely solely on access to vaccination and the measures you have outlined. Indeed, if the vaccine protects the person being vaccinated, it does not necessarily prevent the transmission of the virus. In addition, the duration of the protection it provides is unknown. Therefore, more rigorous screening, isolation and tracing of contamination is needed. However, the mechanisms proposed by the Government in this regard remain largely inadequate to protect our country. As you can see, there are still several points to be clarified if you wish, in a transparent manner, to gain the confidence of our fellow citizens. It is important to provide real answers to these questions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] You said, Prime Minister, that the arrival of the vaccine would mark "a turning point in the fight against covid-19." Either, but it is your vaccination strategy that will make it possible to take or not this turning point, long awaited by the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u240	[[The Minister for Solidarity and Health has a notebook and a pen.]] Mrs Anissa Khedher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u241	This time, minister, there is no point in taking notes: you wrote the speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u242	After a year of dealing, together, with the epidemic of covid-19 and its painful consequences, our fellow citizens need grounds for hope for the new year. Vaccine policy will gradually take its place alongside the "test, alert, protect" strategy developed so far. In this difficult time, vaccines bring hope to all vulnerable or sick people who have postponed their care; to our elders who suffer from isolation; to our fellow entrepreneurs, self-employed or employees who work in the most severely affected sectors of activity; the most precarious who struggle to get out of it; to the younger ones who ask only to project themselves in a better future, rich in the beautiful prospects that young people promise and that the nation owes them; to all of us, all of us, all generations combined, who feel the simple, elementary need to turn the page, to find ourselves in the family, to practice our social, cultural and sporting activities without fear of being contaminated or to be a vector of contamination. Yes, vaccines give us hope. As a result of exceptional scientific prowess, they simply offer life, survival, to those that the disease could take away in the next few less. We cannot evoke the contemporary history of humanity without recalling that vaccines have been a major scientific breakthrough. And we cannot evoke the history of medicine without naming Louis Pasteur,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u243	He was the most quoted one tonight, far ahead of Emmanuel Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u244	... who discovered the vaccine against rabies, and Marcel Mérieux, who founded in 1897, in Lyon, the institute that bears his name. One of their heirs, Sanofi Pasteur, develops a vaccine on his site of Marcy-l'Étoile, in the Lyon agglomeration, which will be produced in France. Another of their heirs, the Institut Pasteur, continues his research and clinical trials. Their work is complementary to that of bioMérieux, which produces tests. The presence of these reference actors in our country is an important marker of our sovereignty and independence in health. The fact that we can rely on this French know-how in medical research and production guarantees the safety that our fellow citizens legitimately expect and greatly facilitates the supply chain when the strategy is deployed. However, before these prospects become concrete reality, we must move forward step by step, with caution. We will need to assess the effectiveness and effects of each vaccine. Only with rigour and transparency will we be able to remove doubts and fears, to create the confidence that is essential for the accession of our citizens. With this in mind, we will have to continue to respect the barriers, to get tested, to isolate ourselves to protect ours, to protect our health, to protect caregivers, who take risks to treat us. Nurse health care framework before becoming a Member of Parliament, I know how difficult these last few months have been for caregivers. I would like to reiterate our deep appreciation to doctors and paramedics. Behind their masks, we see their tired faces, which express fatigue, anxiety, and sometimes sadness. For vaccine policy to be a success, Prime Minister, you will be able to build on the expertise of physicians and rely on the skills and expertise of health care workers, nurses, health professionals and all the paramedical professions. They should be involved in this vaccination strategy, involving them fully, for example by giving nurses the opportunity to vaccinate, which would be a real sign of recognition. So I hope – and this is a call I make – that as many of them as possible will choose to be vaccinated, in order to preserve their health, that of their loved ones and that of their patients. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a humanist appeal. On the initiative of the President of the Republic, France hosted the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria restitution conference in Lyon on 9 and 10 October 2019. In keeping with Emmanuel Macron's strong commitment, I call on our country to work to ensure that all medical advances against coronavirus are widely disseminated, especially to the poorest populations. By taking our nation in this direction, we will honour the founding values of the Republic, for which the action of France is recognized and expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u245	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u246	The vaccine will be "a global public good". These were the words spoken by the President of the Republic on 4 June at the last World Summit on Immunization. A global public good, for it cannot be a tool of influence, a subject of diplomatic negotiations, or a source of enrichment. A global public good, everywhere and for all, because the threat we are currently facing is not concerned with borders, nationality, or GDP. A public good for France, for Europe and for the world. The vaccine will first be a public good for France, in accordance with our fundamental republican values: freedom, in this case that of choosing to be or not to be vaccinated; equality, because everyone will have free access to it, in our cities, in our countryside, in our mountains, in our islands – this represents an unprecedented logistical challenge, which we will certainly rise to; fraternity, finally, because it will be accessible as a priority to the most fragile and exposed, regardless of origin or social status, and because it is together, all together, that we will succeed in extinguishing the epidemic. It is then a public good for Europe, which has been able to anticipate and negotiate. Europe has anticipated because, as early as 16 June, the European Commission has presented a very ambitious strategy, both in terms of research funding, by putting EUR 2.15 billion on the table and in terms of objectives, since it planned for the vaccine to be ready by the end of 2021 – we have largely preceded this timetable. And Europe has negotiated purchasing contracts on behalf of all Member States with six laboratories for almost 1.3 billion doses, in order to ensure fair access at an affordable price – 9 euros per dose – everywhere and for all. Thus, in line with the European motto, "Unie dans la diversité", we see the construction of a true Europe of health, which, we are sure, will survive the epidemic. Finally, it is a global public good, for health in the world. Today, as yesterday, France is faithful to its commitments to strong multilateralism in the field of global health. Remember, it was during the 2000s that the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the GAVI Vaccine Alliance, and, in 2006, Unitaid, the organization of affordable drug purchases. The President of the Republic himself pursued and defended this solidarity, global and cooperative vision of health when, in 2019, he increased our contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria by 20 per cent. In the same spirit of solidarity, France is preparing to increase its contribution to the GAVI Vaccine Alliance by 25%, bringing it to 500 million euros for the period 2021-2026, so that everyone's fundamental right to health, regardless of their country of residence, becomes reality. Finally, on 16 April, in response to this crisis, which is just as new in the most vulnerable countries, France launched the "Covid -19 – Common Health" initiative, which aims to accelerate access to diagnosis, treatment and vaccine in developing countries. Ladies and gentlemen, the vaccine must not be an economic issue or a geostrategic issue. The vaccine is primarily a global public health issue and it is France's duty and honour to support and defend this universalist position. That is what has guided the choices of our majority and that is what will have to animate us all for the months and years to come. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, as well as on several benches of the Dem group]] Let's hear Victor Hugo: "Even the darkest night will end and the sun will rise". The vaccine, ladies and gentlemen, is this light that will give hope to humanity. Let us all be proud that our country is bearing this light. Let us all be proud that the President of the Republic defends these universalistic values. And let us all be proud that, throughout this endless health crisis, we have never lost sight of our mission: to protect all women, all men, all children and to break health inequalities. Long live the vaccine, everywhere and for all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u247	Mr Cédric Villani, President of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u248	Last March, the best experts warned that a covid-19 vaccine should not be counted for 18 months and possibly long years. Only nine months later, the vaccine became a reality thanks to an unprecedented mobilization of international research and impressive scientific advances. In order to adapt to this acceleration, OPECST has worked within unprecedented deadlines. It was on 20 November that President Ferrand, followed by the Social Affairs Committee, seized his members on the subject of the vaccination strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u249	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u250	The report has been prepared and distributed in less than four weeks so that its recommendations can feed our discussions. Four rapporteurs were appointed in a trans-partisan spirit. Two of them spoke today: our colleagues Gérard Leseul, of the Socialist and related group, and Jean-François Eliaou, of the group La République en marche. The other two will speak tomorrow: Senators Florence Lassarade, from the Republican Group, and Sonia de la Provôté, from the Centralist Union Group. This panel of four rapporteurs shook the timetable for conducting a large number of hearings, some of which were publicly broadcast in an interactive format. Beyond strictly scientific and technological aspects, the Office's mission addressed three areas that cannot be dissociated: the practical implementation of vaccination, national and international economic and industrial issues, and the crucial issue of trust. While the mission agreed by consensus to the Government's overall immunization strategy, it also identified several areas of vigilance and made many recommendations. The Government's strategy is to combat a singular disease, sometimes very serious, which has been in debt until this House. It is a disease that is still mysterious in many ways, especially in terms of immunity, and in which we are very unequal, especially by age. The mortality rate is 800 times higher for those over 80 years of age than for those under 25 years of age. More than fifty vaccines are currently in clinical trials around the world, some of which are remarkably innovative. This is the case for adenovirus vaccines, developed in Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States, or RNA vaccines, developed in the United States and Germany. These technologies are not being tested, but this is the first time they will be used on such a large scale. The first vaccine available, developed by Pfizer with the German start-up BioNTech, may become the emblem of a new era in vaccination. While it is not certain that this vaccine prevents the transmission of the virus, it has been shown to be highly effective in preventing serious forms, even in the elderly. The innovative nature of vaccines, as well as the gradual availability of doses, call for a gradual vaccination strategy, with priority given to people for whom the benefit-risk balance is unquestionably favourable, which goes hand in hand with a very rigorous pharmacovigilance. The implementation of vaccination involves a complex set of institutions. The Covid-19 vaccine committee has looked ahead, the High Health Authority has defined the strategy and the ANSM will confirm the imminent authorisation of the European Medicines Agency. In addition, a steering board of the vaccine strategy, with multiple skills, was set up by researcher Alain Fischer, a highly respected figure. The logistics, shared between Public Health France, the ministerial departments and the interministerial task force, is extraordinarily complex due to the fragility of the vaccine, the challenge of traceability, the second injection and the collection of consent. To date, all the agencies involved have played their part rigorously. Subsequently, the legibility and clarity of their respective roles should be ensured in order to avoid this complexity becoming cacophony. And of course we will have to reaffirm Parliament's oversight role.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u252	With regard to the strategy itself, there is a broad consensus for non-compulsory vaccination. OPECST recommends that voluntary health care professionals be able to be vaccinated in a large and rapid manner, both for their protection and to build confidence; well define the protocol for collecting consent in EHPAD; to make extensive use of city health professionals in the second phase; secure their intervention via ONIAM – the National Medical Accident Compensation Office – and involve local elected officials strongly. As for the start date of the vaccination campaign, the sooner it will be the better, but it is nevertheless vital to take the time to check that everything is in order...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u254	... to carry out a rigorous and simultaneous action in each part of the French territory in solidarity. If this requires a few days to delay the vaccination start date, this will in no way put the strategy at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u256	As far as economic negotiations are concerned, the European countries have, for the first time, made a remarkable choice to conduct them collectively. According to the OPECST analysis, this strategy compares very favourably with that of the United Kingdom. The United States, for its part, has taken great advantage of its large health agency, the BARDA – Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority – to invest massively, early and on the whole chain. This example can inspire Europe, as well as the setting up of a European emergency investment fund fed by the Member States and transparency when contracts mature. Once again, European health sovereignty is becoming a major issue. Last, and not least, challenge: confidence in immunization. The strong French, multifactorial, distrust cannot be reduced to conspiracy theses and can only be overcome by transparency, open debate and the communication of facts and links of interest, the mobilization of actors and the relief of the human and social sciences. Comprehensive information for health professionals and local elected officials will be required. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups and among the non-attached Members. – MM. André Chassaigne and Gérard Leseul also applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this vaccine is perhaps not the therapeutic panacea, it is in any case a major step forward, which will bear fruit over the long term. This innovation needs to be enjoyed and, in the months to come, to observe extreme caution on a daily basis and to be aware of the enormous challenges that accompany it. These are the health challenges, the unprecedented progress of biotechnology, the progressive affirmation of Europe and, finally, the reaffirmation that our greatest difficulties are less related to the complexity of the surrounding world than to our own complexity of human beings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u257	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u258	We come to the conclusion of this debate, which I would like to congratulate all of you on both the serenity and the very high quality of the debate. I would also like to welcome the spirit of responsibility on all sides of this House. I can see that Parliament as a whole is fully aware of the collective challenge facing us. [[Smile]] Our differences are perfectly legitimate. I felt a few spades, which I would have missed if you hadn't thrown them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u259	That's the game!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u260	But of your interventions, I understood that the French people are obviously worried. As we know, he was never a big fan of vaccination – and as you said, long before the crisis of covid-19 occurred. By restoring a form of trust, which has been lost if not lost, at least altered, it is within our grasp to make him understand the basis of the difficult measures that we are taking. By drawing on his common sense and looking at what is happening in all the countries around us, he can, at the bottom of himself, understand that it is in his interest to be vaccinated. This is in the individual interest of the people, but also, as has been said by many of you and because it is an act of solidarity, of the interest of others. Basically, it is a bit the same feelings that should live in us when we respect the barrier gestures, or when we make the effort, at the end of the year, not to find ourselves in large numbers in secret places to, of course, have a good time, but which will then contribute to the spread of the virus. I repeat, these are acts of individual and collective responsibility. Some, probably not on all benches, would like the state to be responsible again for everything. I have often had the opportunity to say in this Chamber that he must exercise his responsibilities. I believe in the state and have always said so, as soon as I make my general policy statement. I believe in it all the more when we are in crisis: if the state really has a role to play, it is in the historical moments when the nation is weakened. And isn't she, and how, for several months? I therefore thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this spirit of responsibility, which I have no doubt will continue. I am also confident that you will continue to exercise your role of monitoring government action, as a requirement for those who are responsible. Nevertheless, I wish, almost six months after taking office, that we act in a spirit of minimum consensus. As you know, the image we send to our fellow citizens is also necessary to succeed in the formidable challenge of collective vaccination. On the other hand, I appreciated that you recalled that in the face of this crisis that occurred at the beginning of the twenty-first century, when in the Western world we thought perhaps invincible, medicine and science, seen as all powerful and found themselves somewhat burdened, rebuffed. It's an element of collective pride. Science has put double bites to develop these vaccines with innovative techniques, to the point of raising doubt and asking questions – but that is the role of science. In France and elsewhere, public authorities have made a significant contribution to this acceleration of research. So we are facing a moment of hope. This is a demanding appointment for us, because we must not miss this turn. As I explained to you, and Olivier Véran with even more precision, our strategy will refine and adapt. You have understood well that not all vaccines are the same and therefore the logistics to achieve their distribution will necessarily be different and scalable; But this will be done in accordance with the principles which I have reminded you in my introductory statement and which I have not heard invalidating in your successive interventions, starting with transparency. The Government will further increase its transparency efforts during this new phase of dealing with the epidemic: even if I consider that we have always done so, we must listen to the criticisms. We are making progress, as we must all and always do collectively. Olivier Véran has mentioned this, and others also among you, but I have not yet dealt with one element of this credibilisation, the corollary of health safety and transparency: pharmacovigilance. As some speakers have rightly said, follow-up should be carried out on persons vaccinated as part of pharmacovigilance devices which, of course, are still strengthened in comparison with those available for routine vaccinations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u262	Of course, I have said it, but I must repeat it in this forum, the user associations, health professionals and local elected representatives in the territories, especially during the vaccination phases where vaccination will spread everywhere, in all the villages, all those actors who are in contact with our territory, will be associated with it under the impetus and direction of the Ministry of Health, because health policy is the responsibility of the State. All actors will be involved. There is, as has been said, the logistical challenge of the last kilometre. It is, of course, at the centre of our concerns, and you know that it has never been the simplest. "But it's because you're not prepared for it," some will say. We are doing everything we can to prepare for it, but I can tell you, I, who have a few years of experience, that we have never had to manage such a process massification. We cannot say that we have a strong experience on which to rely – thank God, in a way – to face this kind of challenge. Yet we are preparing for it as best we can. It seems to me that you have also joined the fact, because it is obvious, that the strategy for the deployment of vaccines will be gradual throughout the first half of the year, if only because of the inevitably gradual nature of our supply policy – a policy in reality in Europe. To answer a question that has been asked to me, I would point out that by 30 December we are waiting for the delivery of 1160,000 doses, the first vaccinations to start the last week of Christmas – we will do everything we can to achieve this, at the price of an effort harmonized with other European countries. We should receive an additional 677000 doses around 5-6 January and 1600000 doses in February. The Ministry will of course provide you with all the following calendars, which will of course depend on the conditions of manufacture in the laboratories with which Europe supplies itself. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne also applauds]] I would also like to tell you that we are doing all this in humility. This last word has come back in many of your interventions, and believe that it is a feeling always shared by the rulers when they have to make difficult decisions. But the Government must take action to deal with the epidemic. It measures as much as you do the difficulties they cause for our fellow citizens – as much as you, I assure you; No more, but certainly no less. We have to take our responsibilities, because I know what would happen if we didn't take them. Health security has always been at the heart of our concerns. If you are looking for consistency in the action of the Government of the French Republic, it is the protection of the health of our citizens first! This has damaging consequences for some sectors, because we are obliged, when the epidemic is blazing, to take action – other governments too, by the way: it is not just us. If I listened to the recriminations, week after week, we would never have confined or closed anything; Once, it was discotheques, another time, bars and restaurants, another, shops, another, cultural establishments or ski slopes... because there are always excellent reasons, which I understand, not to close. But if I listen to all these good reasons, we're not taking any more action to deal with the epidemic. And then you would have much more reason to blame me for incidence rates, hospitalization rates, and deaths in resuscitation services much, much more numerous. You must, ladies and gentlemen, be sure of it! Yes, health first! I note that leaders from very large states have not made this choice. They were wrong in all respects, including politically. I will also point out to you, and this will be the last point in my speech, that we are right to have made certain provisions of a much more structural nature than subjects such as the vaccination strategy, although these are obviously essential. Some of you have spoken of sovereignty, regretting that vaccines are not produced in France and that the national pharmaceutical industry is not favoured. Do I have to remind you that one of the main axes of the recovery plan, with the funds allocated for this purpose, is to relocate part of our industry?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u263	It took the crisis, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u264	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Calls for projects – I will come back in due course – are already producing quite significant results, including in the field of health products. In our view, sovereignty is also European, and I am pleased that you have finally, for most of you, welcomed the vaccine supply system that, at the initiative of France, Europe, thanks to its task force, has succeeded in setting up. This is a French initiative, and I would like to thank Minister Agnès Pannier-Runacher and Secretary of State Clément Beaune, who are on the front line to negotiate these contracts with the European authorities – we are not saying enough. It is the honour of our country and also our view of sovereignty: national sovereignty and European sovereignty are not opposed, the proof is. Another area that requires structural provisions is that of research, of which you were right to speak. But, as I know, your assembly recently passed a multi-year research programming law. I found this text on the table when I arrived at Matignon: it certainly has shortcomings, but in terms of the scope and the financial resources that have been released, I am absolutely formal: it was a long time ago – it was necessary to go back to the early 1980s – that a law had not done so much for research, particularly for public research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u265	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u266	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] And your assembly, your majority, can be proud of it, because it is also one of the lessons to be learned from this crisis. Finally, many of you have said, there is our system of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u267	Where are the beds?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u268	He suffered a lot,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u269	Too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u270	[[Ms. Nicole Dubré-Chirat applauds]] [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...but he faces remarkably. I spent a lot of time visiting, before and during this second wave, our hospitals. I already enjoyed them a lot, having worked in this sector long before I was Prime Minister. It was absolutely wonderful, and the no less formidable Minister of Health who was with me can testify to the fact that the staff acted and responded with a professional conscience and dedication that is the honour of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u271	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u272	Here too, you have had the opportunity to vote for the measures resulting from the Segur of Health, which is a turning point. I'm going to be told: "Ah, it wasn't done earlier! And we're going to take responsibility from one side to the other. In any case, it exists, and you can be proud that we have collectively learned the structural lessons of reality. Some have spoken of catching up, but it's already a compliment. Our duty and honour is to manage this crisis on a daily basis, with the aim of protecting our fellow citizens, who are sometimes in extremely difficult situations, by adopting the financial, but also human and psychological support mechanisms, the most ambitious and, at the same time, to continue to prepare for the future. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] And, Mr President, talk about the future when we conclude a debate on vaccination to deal with this epidemic and, hopefully, put an end to it, it was necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u273	The debate is closed. It was expected, it was necessary, and I thank all the colleagues who took part in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-16-O1123.u274	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Final reading of the finance bill for 2021; Final reading of the draft law on the restitution of cultural property in Benin and Senegal; Final reading of the draft law on the Code of Internal Security. The meeting is adjourned.
