ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u2	This morning, the Assembly began examining the appropriations relating to immigration, asylum and integration (No 3399, Annex 28; No 3403, Volume VII; No 3404, Volume II). She began to hear the group's spokespersons. I would remind you that the latter speak for a period of five minutes. Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u3	When we open the budget blue of the "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" mission, one thing is striking: almost 70% of the funds are dedicated to immigration and asylum, and only 20% to integration policies. In fact, however, everything shows that this distribution has not been adapted. Every day we see huge gaps in the management of migration flows. In addition to the impossibility, or at least the very great difficulty of agreeing with our European neighbours, there is the ineffectiveness of the Dublin procedure, which should be reformed. As a result, the fight against irregular immigration channels is clearly not a success – and it is a lie. Similarly, with regard to the expulsion of foreigners in an irregular situation, we are failing. There is a complete gap between the obligations imposed to leave French territory and the deportations to the border: 151,181 removal measures were issued in 2019, but only 23746 removal measures were carried out, i.e. a 15 % enforcement rate. With regard to the appropriations for integration, it is clear that not only do we not know how to expel, i.e. have agreements with the countries concerned for readmissions, but we are also unable to properly integrate those who remain in the national territory with our consent. Your budget is rising by just 0.4 per cent in this area, even though the needs are staggering, in my department, as in so many others. At a time when the health crisis makes integration economically and socially more difficult, the budget is not up to the challenge. A double failure is expected. Your press kit, Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, indicates that you want to preserve the achievements of integration policy. However, these achievements are still to be built. It would have to be much more active to allow the correct integration of foreigners we accept in our territory, whether it is language learning – it has made progress, but these are still insufficient – or the acquisition of concepts, values and what we share on French territory. Many foreigners, sometimes pointed out by extremes, do not actually know the rules of operation of French society; They reproduce theirs, because we have not given ourselves the means to teach them. In your budget, 250 million euros are spent on welcoming first-time arrivals, when the appropriations for integration amount to just over 50 million euros. This is still a lag, which leads to weakness. This amount is not enough to build successful policies that can well accommodate foreigners. However, this is a major issue. For years, the IDU and independent group has been making proposals. The first is aimed at ensuring that children are educated quickly and properly upon arrival, regardless of whether their parents are intended to remain. In schools such as those in my municipality, there are children in kindergarten for three years, not to speak French. However, they are accepted in progress. In some schools, they are the majority, placing teachers in distress, because they do not know how to pass on knowledge to them. Similarly, parents are not sufficiently accompanied: literacy is often the result of communal policies. So there are holes in the racket, which must be filled as quickly as possible. We also hope that everyone will be able to work as soon as he arrives on French territory, as we had proposed to Gérard Collomb, when he was Minister of the Interior. It seems absurd to us that an asylum-seeker does not have the right to work for eight, nine, ten, twelve, or fifteen months, pending the decision of the authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u4	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u5	Either it will remain, and it is better that it has started to work and is not the responsibility of French society, or it is not intended to remain in the long term but, anyway, until the decision is made, it would be useful to our country, rather than to be responsible for it. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] Finally, I would like to support an idea that I have been defending in this House for 18 years now. To accommodate well, you need to know how to be consistent. So of someone who has been issued a ten-year card, which will be renewed ad vitam æternam: when applying for renewal, we should propose naturalization to him, provided that he has actually completed the integration journey, which is supposed to be the case if he has a ten-year card. Indeed, it would be to send him the message that he is welcome, if he wishes to share our values and live in our country. At the same time, we believe it is necessary to combat abusive regulation, which always happens. It is with this dual movement of reception and integration into nationality, for those whom we have decided to accept on our soil, and of refusal and return to the border, for those whom we have not decided to accept, that we will succeed in building a satisfactory migration policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u6	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u7	[[Ms Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] It is not by building even higher walls that we will properly answer the migration question, but by strengthening our European policies, cooperation with the countries of origin, and finally regularizing the situation from 100 to 200000 foreigners – those we will never expel: single mothers with children, families settled in France for more than five years, and those who have been working for a long time and whose economy we cannot do without. The Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission is experiencing a 2% increase in its funding compared to 2020. This is mainly due to the updating of needs, as in the case of the single allowance for asylum seekers, and the necessary establishment of places in temporary accommodation centres. Funding under the 303 "Immigration and Asylum" programme is increasing by 2.5%, with three objectives: to optimize the care of asylum seekers, to reduce delays in processing asylum applications and to improve the effectiveness of the fight against irregular immigration. As regards the first objective, it must be noted that we are still running after the rules we have set ourselves, because of a lack of resources, particularly in the prefectures. However, the current deadlines are inhumane. The reduction to an average of six months of processing times for asylum applications by OFPRA – the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – and then by the National Court of the Right to Asylum can be seen as progress. However, we want to strongly denounce that, between the filing of their application and the final decision, refugees have no right, including the right to work, so that they are unable to support themselves, especially since accommodation is lacking – except for illegal work and exploitation, thus joining the procession of victims of the Dublin procedures. Let us use the word: it is a modern form of slavery. So many migrants live a deprivation of fundamental rights, such as that of being protected by justice, for fear of being identified or expelled; that of testimonies of violence, of drama; All tears and lives definitely broken! With regard to the fight against irregular immigration, flows have declined as a result of the pandemic. Detention centres were not fully occupied, and returns were limited to some countries. The delays in detention are obviously affected by the difficulties of return, with many countries refusing to accept their nationals due to the pandemic. The budget for program 104 "Integration and access to French nationality" is stable, too stable, as President Lagarde has said excellently. Every year, about 100,000 foreigners from non-European countries arrive in France regularly; They want to settle there for a long time, and sign their Republican integration contract. As you have understood, a simple reading of the budget does not make it possible to grasp all the dimensions of asylum and immigration. It still lacks the human dimension, which gives us to measure the exhausting paths that must be taken by those who are nevertheless part of the legal framework that we have defined. This budget, which is not new, tends to make asylum and immigration policy an instrument of migration policy which includes a component of public expenditure, in particular the asylum-seekers' allowance scheme. We are thus called upon to change certain public policies in order to make France less attractive and to reduce the number of foreigners arriving in our country, whatever the cause. That is not the reality of immigration, and we all know that. Building walls on the basis of more restrictive devices is not the solution. The policy of "at the same time" is presented to us as a call for more humanity and firmness. This would mean, for example, less retention, but in better conditions; less retention, because France remains the Member State of the European Union which locks up the most, with detention periods still too long. Of course, the 2021 Finance Bill provides for increases in real estate investment spending, including payment appropriations, and additional places in administrative detention centres for the years 2018-2021. On paper, all this is encouraging, but in reality we know that these appropriations are insufficient, from year to year. More humanity and firmness would also require that we strengthen the accommodation capacity of asylum seekers. Only 50% of them are hosted. The President of the Republic wanted to be the president who would not allow anyone to sleep on the street before the end of the first year of the quinquennium. They are the ones who are staying in the street; This requires the creation of additional accommodation capacity each year. They are an unbearable illustration of our inability to lead a policy of accommodation to the height, and pose real problems of legality, safety and hygiene. In conclusion, Madam Minister, the philosophy of your budget seems far removed from what a true immigration, asylum and integration policy must be. Beyond any instrumentalization of the issue, on any side, we believe that budgetary efforts must rise to the challenges imposed. If the figures are not found to be in line with the objectives, the Libertés et Territoires Group will not vote for this budget mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u8	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u9	The subject is passionate and has been going through the political debates of our country for several decades. Its passional character, let us admit, already marks the ideological victory of the far right, as the fact that we cannot evoke it, without immediately being left to the discussion of the representations which, in my view, scratch the very identity of our country. No, French legislation is not so favourable to immigrants that it explains immigration. Of course, France is a big country and has public policies, but no, it is not a country of cocagne, where arrivals find such a lenient situation, that these policies should be weakened in order to stop what is called an "air call". I wanted to start with that. In 2019, at the end of the major debate, the President of the Republic affirmed the need to rebuild "an inclusive patriotism"; In particular, the question of immigration had been asked. Beyond this statement, the appropriations for the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission are, of course, increasing by 2%. In fact, if inflation is taken into account, it is only 1.2 per cent. This is not enough, and it is much less than the 6% increase foreseen in the PLF – Finance Bill – for 2020. Of course, we are being announced an increase in the creation of accommodation spaces, but no places had been created last year. In other words, there is an increase over a significantly insufficient year. As elected from the Seine-Saint-Denis, I would like to stress one point. There is a scandal, about which I have already asked for the creation of a parliamentary inquiry, concerning the reception of asylum seekers in Seine-Saint-Denis. As we know, the press has talked a lot about it. The saturation of reception conditions in the prefecture has led to the emergence of a black market, where appointments are sold between 200 and 1000 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u10	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u11	This reality exists, Mr. prefect of the Seine-Saint-Denis, who is a lucid man, knows it, while it is strictly intolerable. Just go to Bobigny, at the foot of the prefecture to see that every morning, women and men have been waiting for hours, a sleeping bag under their arm – because they slept on the spot to try, often in vain, to get an appointment. This is how a scandalous business develops based not only on poverty but also on the deterioration of the public service.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u12	Exactly! It's almost a stock market.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u13	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u14	It's almost a stock market, Lagarde tells us. In any case, it is a reality that cannot last any longer. Yet it lasts. What to do? Increase the reception and improve the conditions of this reception. Does this budget allow it? No. Therefore, the situation will continue. Can we be proud of our integration policy, when the first demand made by a migrant – to examine his situation – is not even satisfied? In the 2019 Finance Act, we wanted to introduce an average 60-day processing time for each case by OFPRA. It is now 166 days. That is the reality that this budget will not change. There is also a problem with households that are particularly degraded. As an elected representative of Montreuil, I recall that the occupation rate of Rochebrune, which welcomes migrant workers, especially Malians, exceeds 200 per cent in general indifference. Will this budget help to improve the situation? No. All this has consequences for the health situation. As we know, migrants are particularly affected by the virus. In March and April, deaths of foreign-born people increased by 48% compared to 2019, while deaths of French-born people increased by 22%. Colleagues who have preceded me in the gallery, let us be lucid: for thirty years, we have passed sixteen immigration laws. None of us has provided a relevant response to the problem we are facing as a result of the great disorder of the world, wars, climate disruptions, free trade treaties that have exploded or imploded entire economies and regions. It is these problems that must be solved, before we can put an end to the great displacement of the planet and these great migrations that are terrible for the men and women who suffer them. In the meantime, we must put in place a reception policy worthy of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u15	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u16	Compared to the initial 2020 finance law, the 2021 budget of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission is increasing by 2% in order to meet the objectives, which we consider questionable, of the law of 10 September 2018 for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration. As regards asylum, it should be noted that the main problem is not the delay in the processing of applications, which has decreased in recent years, but the delay in the registration of the application for asylum. Reducing procedural delays is an objective shared by all asylum actors. However, the authorities must ensure that the investigation of cases is carried out in an appropriate time frame. I stress once again that, despite the creation of places, the national reception system for asylum seekers remains marked by significant under-sizing. However, the French authorities have a duty to provide reception facilities for asylum seekers and refugees. In fact, they are held responsible for the failure of the national reception system, which explains why our country was condemned on 2 July 2020 by the European Court of Human Rights. Similarly, on the occasion of his decision of 10 July 2020, the human rights defender notes that "more than half of the asylum seekers are not hosted by the OFII – the French Office for Immigration and Integration – and are therefore forced to use the emergency accommodation system, which is itself saturated, referring to solidarity networks or to informal settlements where they are otherwise exposed to repeated evictions". However, hosting asylum seekers is a major issue. For years we have tolerated a huge refugee and asylum-seeking camp in the vicinity of the capital. They first settled at the door of the Chapel, then, after successive evacuations, at the door of Aubervilliers, then at the door of the Villette. Today, more than a thousand of them are regrouped at the foot of the stadium in France. This is how people find themselves, so to speak, stored, forced to live in tents, in perfectly abject conditions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u18	... in the absence of any health precautions, forming in this period – you imagine – a cluster of explosive covid -19. How can we understand that, in a country like ours, we are not able to put an end to this inhuman situation? From week to week, the ministers assure us that evacuation and shelter are imminent. Yet, from week to week, this camp continues to grow. What about removal measures? The establishment of new places in the administrative detention centre is also expected to continue in 2021. However, in these CRAs, occupancy rates are increasing and retention conditions are deteriorating. Many associations denounce the deterioration of the rights of foreigners in detention pending possible expulsion. They also regret the inadequacies in the care of sick persons in detention. This point is also mentioned in the report for the opinion of Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge. While the Government and its majority persist – I confess that I do not understand their insistence – in their refusal to prohibit the placement of foreign children in CRA, I note with concern that in France, the detention of minors is increasing, despite the numerous convictions handed down by the European Court of Human Rights. In 2019, 136 families, including 279 children, were detained in metropolitan France, and more than 3,000 in Mayotte. More than 150 children, sometimes infants, have been deprived of their liberty and kept in a waiting area. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to bear in mind the dramatic consequences of such confinement on their physical and psychological integrity. However, the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty and the Defender of Rights, as well as many human rights associations, have repeatedly alerted us on this subject, as well as on the practice of certain prefectures that use these detentions to facilitate the removal of families to the border. In all logic, I associate myself with their request: that we ban the presence of children in the CRAs altogether and simply! [[Mrs. George Pau-Langevin applauds]] As you will have understood, we do not share the Government's guidelines for asylum and immigration policy, as they are guided by the air of time and the bad wind of the time. That is why we will not vote for the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u19	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u20	The funds of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission are heavily mobilized to respond to a migration policy that we want to be both controlled and balanced. This balance rests, in line with the policy pursued by the President of the Republic since 2017, on humanity in reception and integration, and on the firmness towards those who enter or remain in the national territory irregularly, although rejected of their asylum application. France is a land of asylum, it is his honour to define itself as such and the Republic is generous, but it must also be respected in its decisions. Because immigration, asylum and integration issues are one of the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior, the 2021 Finance Bill allows for an increase of €36.8 million, or more than 2% over the BIA – the initial finance law – for 2020. I will concentrate my speech on this budgetary aspect, since this is the subject that brings us together today. In addition to the amount I have just mentioned, the appropriations for the 363 "Competitiveness" programme of the "Relaunching Plan" mission abound the budgetary efforts of our mission, to the tune of 26.6 million in payment appropriations. As you can see, this is a major effort, which aims to empower us to do more and better through the two programs of the mission: the 303 "Immigration and Asylum" program, and the 104 "Access to French Nationality" program. Before going into the details, I would point out that the Minister of the Interior and I were very much inspired by the work of Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, whom I greet. Programme 303 illustrates the Government's determination to better welcome and combat irregular immigration. Better reception, first of all: the main expenditure of this asylum programme of the programme relates to the reception and accommodation of asylum seekers. They therefore result in a significant increase in the budget for ADA – an allocation for asylum seekers – which has increased by 11.5 million euros compared to the BIA of 2020, bringing the budget to 459.4 million. I stress the budgetary effort being made by the whole nation to receive asylum seekers in France. Although, by definition, the asylum application cannot be quantified in advance, we took the lead in retaining the figures for 2019, when the number of applications was high, while anticipating a potential gradual reduction in the processing times for asylum applications, which would mechanically reduce the expenditure. In addition, it is also in order to fight against the black market of places in front of the prefectures, already mentioned, that the Minister of the Interior wanted to freeze the abolition of posts in all prefectures and that we are working on the dematerialization of procedures. Accommodation actions will also have an effect on the ADA budget. They relate to the fluidity of the accommodation park: the aim is to remove from the accommodation the unsuccessful ones who unduly maintain themselves there, to establish regional management of the places and to reduce the frictional vacancy in this respect. In addition to these actions, there are significant financial resources. The strength of the PLF for 2021 in terms of accommodation is the creation of 6000 additional places: 4000 places for the mission and 2000 places for the "Relaunch Plan" mission. These are places in CADA or reception centres for asylum seekers – 3000 places – in CAES or reception and examination centres – 1500 places – and in preparation for return – 1500 places. To finance the park and the total capacity in CADA, CAES and HUDA – emergency shelter for asylum seekers – an allocation of €726.5 million is foreseen. In addition, $18.5 million has been allocated to the "Relaunch Plan" mission for 2000 places created specifically through the recovery plan. I mentioned earlier the improvement in the processing times for asylum applications. You have voted in this House, and it is a priority of our action to implement it. This makes it possible to welcome those who need the protection of France and, a contrario, to respond quickly to those who are not destined to remain in the national territory. This reduction in the processing time for asylum applications will have an impact on the amount of ADA, but also on the fluidity of the accommodation. This requires an effort in terms of means, particularly in the direction of OFPRA. This is why the €92.8 million PLF grant for 2021 is increasing compared to 2020 and accompanies the additional 200 FTEs – full-time equivalents – granted to OFPRA. Better fight against irregular immigration, then. On the move today in the Perthus border area, in the Pyrénées-Orientales, with Interior Minister Gérald Darmanin, the President of the Republic announced a doubling of the security forces deployed at the borders in this respect. The real estate investment of the administrative detention centres also reflects the will of the Government. Too often, the lack of places in CRA has prevented remoteness. This is why EUR 29.4 million will be allocated to the financing of the 2021 tranche of the CRA extension plan, in particular for the operations of Olivet, Bordeaux and the new CRA Lyon, which will be delivered at the end of 2021. To this amount is added 1.4 million payment appropriations for the "Relaunch Plan" mission for the renovation of existing CRAs. I recall that in 2019, 23746 removals were carried out, compared to 16,000 in 2010. Prefects were invited to create LRAs – administrative detention facilities – pending the creation of new places or complementing them. This illustrates our will, which we assume perfectly, to expel, for example, radicalized foreigners or those who pose a threat to public order. The cost of removal of illegal aliens, as budgeted, shows the Government's willingness to return to levels of remoteness comparable to those before the health crisis. This expenditure item covers, inter alia, central ticketing issues, the cost of dedicated aircraft and charters up to the amount of EUR 24.5 million in 2020. I come to Program 104 "Integration and Access to French Nationality". For more than two years, at the request of the President of the Republic, the Government has been reshaping the integration policy. The State provides itself with the means to carry out an ambitious policy thanks to the various measures adopted on 5 June 2018 by the Interministerial Committee for Integration, and thanks to this dedicated budget, which has been maintained at a high level and will increase by 2 million euros in 2021. I wanted to speed up the naturalization of foreign workers who found themselves in the front line during confinement. We have already received over 600 applications for naturalization through the prefects. In my view, this is an eloquent illustration of our very clear line: the Republic must fully integrate those who have demonstrated their commitment to the nation. Among the other priority actions, I would like to mention those relating to the mastery of the French language, civic training aimed at sharing the values of the Republic and participation in life in society, access to employment and the care of certain special situations, in particular that of refugees. These actions are implemented mainly by OFII, but also by project promoters and operators. In 2021, the intervention appropriations of the OFII will amount to 11 million euros, the same amount as that which was entered in the original finance law for 2020. Funding for integration actions for first-time arrivals will increase by 9%. They are intended to finance actions in the territories, in particular overall support for employment and integration. Funding for the support of refugees will remain a priority for the financing of the temporary accommodation centres, which offer 8710 places. It is in these centres that the Yezidi families are housed, for example, that the President of the Republic undertook to receive them in France after they were victims of a genocide perpetrated by Daesh. These actions are complemented by specific accompanying actions, with EUR 1.1 million in appropriations. One of the best illustrations of this support is the program called HOPE, accommodation, orientation and career path. But other initiatives in many territories – I have the opportunity to go there with some of you – deserve support. The Ministry of the Interior is also supporting, as part of a multi-year plan, the renovation and modernisation of 690 migrant workers' homes, which accommodate 100,000 migrant workers. In 2021, the corresponding budget will be maintained, amounting to EUR 8.14 million, in order to retain their dignified character. [[Applause on committee benches]] In conclusion, I reaffirm the clear will of the Minister of the Interior and of mine to be fair in our action in favour of those who join our country and, above all, to ensure that the many actions carried out by the Ministry of the Interior and its services throughout the country are better understood and, I hope, supported by the greatest number of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u21	We come to the questions. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u22	Even today, despite the deadly news, some prefer to deny the link between immigration and terrorism. If not all migrants are terrorists – it's happy – too many terrorists who have carried out attacks at home, in France, are migrants or people of immigrant origin. It's a fact. Let us recall what happened in this year alone. On April 4, 2020, in Romans-sur-Isère, a man stabbed two passers-by and wounded five others by shouting "Allah Akbar". He was a Sudanese refugee. On September 25, 2020, in Paris, a man wounded two people in front of Charlie Hebdo's former premises. He had entered our country as a Pakistani and an isolated minor; He was actually 25 years old. On October 16, 2020, in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, a man beheaded Samuel Paty near the college where he was teaching. He was a Russian citizen, of Chechen origin, and was granted refugee status. On October 29, 2020, in Nice, a man killed three people in the Basilica of Notre-Dame-de-l'Assumption. He was Tunisian. Unfortunately, this list is not exhaustive. That's right, the tone changed with Mr. Darmanin's arrival at the Ministry of the Interior. But what about the actions? And what about, by the way, the annual debate on this subject promised by the President of the Republic? He's gone to oblivion! That's right, you had 16 radicalized people expelled in a month and announced that a hundred more were being held in administrative detention centres. But what are you doing to treat the evil at the root? What are you doing to really control immigration? What are you doing to drive false asylum seekers to the border? What are you doing to send back unaccompanied false minors? What are you doing to end the aspirational pump of AME, state medical aid? In a word, Madam Deputy Minister, what are you doing to protect the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u23	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u24	I will try to answer, Mrs Ménard, all the questions you have raised. I'm just as uncomfortable when I hear that all migrants would be terrorists...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u25	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u26	...that when I hear that all men would be rapists. I do not believe that such a principle can be taken into account. I would like to remind you that twenty-two of the last thirty attacks on French soil have been committed by French citizens. In my opinion, you do not serve the debate by reducing it and caricaturing it as you do. As for the debate on immigration, no one is trying to avoid it: it will take place in Parliament next December, as originally planned; Of course you will be able to take part. It will focus on the negotiation of the European Pact on Migration and Asylum. Similarly, with regard to AME, blind ideology is detrimental to efficiency. If AME were given up, foreigners in precarious situations could no longer have access to care or treatment. Do you think, Mrs Ménard, that viruses, microbes and diseases are concerned about the identity card of those concerned before moving from one person to another?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u27	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u28	I call the funds of the mission "Immigration, Asylum and Integration", listed in state B. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 243.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u29	The Government plans to increase the funding of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission by 2 per cent in 2021, not to combat out-of-control immigration, but, among other things, to finance the creation of 4000 new places for asylum seekers, amounting to €37 million. In other words, the additional resources will be allocated mainly to the creation of these accommodation spaces. You choose to give priority to asylum seekers rather than assigning resources to the fight against irregular immigration. In 2020, OFPRA's average response time was over nine months, compared to five and a half months in 2019, while its reduction was already a priority. France is no longer in a position to welcome an ever-increasing number of foreigners. Given the economic situation in our country, we have two reasonable options: to reallocate some of the funds allocated to the reception of new migrants to the fight against irregular immigration; or simply reduce the funds allocated to the reception of migrants in order to achieve savings. It would be irresponsible to be generous with money that we do not have or that it would be better to inject into our real economy. I confess that the first solution has my preference. The fight against illegal immigration needs to be stepped up, involving a large number of actors for various missions: border security, visa granting, arrest, the fight against smugglers' channels and the execution of removal measures. The resources allocated to this fight are derisory, since they represent only 9.9% of the "Immigration and Asylum" programme. It is essential to act on all these levers so that we can better welcome and integrate the immigrant populations legally residing in our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u30	Mrs Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u31	Your analysis seems counterproductive to me, Mrs. Ménard. To use the words used earlier by Mr Pancher, erecting ever higher walls is not a solution in itself. There is a need for a comprehensive policy, at European level, as the Deputy Minister pointed out. The pact on migration and asylum under consideration is in the right direction. There is also a need for a policy of cooperation with countries of origin. That is, for the most part, my point of view. Your amendment No 243 aims to withdraw EUR 400 million from Action 02 "Guaranteeing the exercise of the right of asylum" from Programme 303. As for your next amendment, point 248, it tends to cut 100 million. I will give my opinion on the two amendments, the arguments being the same. Both amendments would lead to a very significant reduction in the appropriations for Action 02, the amount of which for 2021 was set at EUR 1.28 billion in total. The first is intended to abolish an amount almost equivalent to ADA's appropriations, whereas this allowance is essential and corresponds to an obligation imposed on France by the 2013 European Directive on the reception of persons seeking international protection. The second is to abolish an amount equivalent to the funding of OFPRA. Therefore, both would simply result in more unhealthy camps, more insecurity for an already fragile population and probably more health problems. [[Mrs. Aina Kuric applauds]] These two amendments were not considered by the committee. I give them an unfavorable opinion on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u32	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u33	The Special Rapporteur has explained this brilliantly, if accommodation is closed, this will result in more people on the street and more unhealthy camps, which would be contrary to the objectives set. The draft finance law for 2021 provides for almost EUR 1.3 billion in payment appropriations for Action 02. This is the budget necessary for France to fulfil its obligation to pay an allowance to asylum seekers – so that they can meet their minimum needs – and to provide them with dignified material conditions during the period of investigation of their asylum application – knowing that we are working to reduce this deadline. As for the appropriations dedicated to the fight against irregular immigration, their level will be increased from EUR 122 million in 2020 to EUR 127.9 million in 2021. This significant increase reflects the Government's ambition to pursue a determined policy in this area. The removal of your proposed appropriations can only receive an unfavorable opinion from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u34	Mr Pacôme Rupin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u35	There is no choice, Mrs Ménard, between the reception of asylum seekers and the fight against irregular immigration. I would like to remind you that France has obligations: as a rule of law, it must strive to receive asylum seekers as best as possible. Some have rightly noted that we have been running behind the influx of asylum seekers for more than five years and that many of them have been in emergency accommodation for lack of places in the CADA. The planned budget will continue to create places in the CADA – which is not done with a finger slap; It takes time, just like prison construction. We can very well meet our obligations while fighting firmly against irregular immigration; Let us stop opposing the two objectives. Our country has obligations arising from treaties that it has signed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u36	He also has obligations to return to the border!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u37	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u38	I would like to make a point. In fact, France has signed treaties that give rise to obligations, and everyone here agrees that we must provide support to asylum seekers, particularly in the area of accommodation. But, in reality, our country has made the deliberate choice of continuing to examine asylum applications that it should not consider, except in the context of an accelerated procedure. In 2019, one third of the 151000 asylum applications submitted in France came from asylum seekers who had already been rejected in another European country. It should be noted that most of them benefited from ADA. Clearly, they did not meet the required criteria, since France is a member of a common area – even though it was decided today to temporarily re-establish controls at the Union's internal borders. In addition, France has chosen to grant asylum seekers an allowance which is one third higher than that granted in Germany – 421 euros compared to 300 euros on average – given that this amount is increased when our country does not offer accommodation. In addition, we are increasing the number of accommodation places. We can try to reduce the processing time for asylum applications, but there must be a willingness to do so. This is clearly lacking: before the pandemic, I would remind you that the average time limit in question was five and a half months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u39	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 248.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u40	Every year, when one touches the appropriations of missions, whatever they are – it is not unique to the mission "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" – you make the same bad trial. In this case, you accuse me of opposing the fight against illegal and irregular immigration and the exercise of the right to asylum, saying to me: "This is not what you do, it is not nice! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u41	That's what you're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u42	But you know very well that the budgetary year requires us to do so. We can only increase the appropriations of one program by reducing those of another program of the same mission. I would rather be able to do otherwise and not oppose things, but that is not possible. So don't be so bad-faith! As far as Amendment No 248 is concerned, you have already replied to me, Madam Special Rapporteur, but I still wish to present my arguments. Unfortunately, France no longer has the financial or material means to receive ever more asylum seekers. Less than a year ago, the President of the Republic himself explained that "France cannot welcome everyone if it wants to welcome everyone." So there are no good guys on one side and bad guys on the other. We all agree that the right of asylum is one of the riches of our civilization, but it has been largely disused. It is necessary to return to a reasonable reception in accordance with our actual reception capacity; To give it up is to make people believe that we can help them with dignity, but that is not the case. In this regard, I refer you to the rostrum published yesterday by exiles from the camp of Saint-Denis – Mr. What do the authors of this forum say, "We who sleep under your bridges? "We are more than 1500 living under the bridges at Saint-Denis under unspeakable conditions. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u43	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u44	"We cannot describe how horrible our living conditions are. On the camp, we don't have food, no shower. [...] We're cold. If these are the reception conditions that you would like to offer to people who arrive in France, I do not agree! That is the reality of our welcome. Let's stop closing our eyes! You have to accommodate less, but you have to welcome better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u45	It seems to me, Madam Special Rapporteur, that you gave an unfavorable opinion on this amendment in the discussion of the previous one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u46	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u47	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u48	You cannot, Madam Member, say that this is the fiscal year and, at the same time, deny everyone the right to respond to you in the same fiscal year. I remember that a year or two ago, in the same Chamber, during the budgetary examination, you proposed that the appropriations relating to women's rights should simply be abolished and allocated to food aid. So we see that this is your political method, your line. You have a perfect right to do so; It's democratic exercise. But we also see that you always oppose the same issues between them, like asylum or women's rights. I repeat, you have the right to do so, just as we have the right to give an opinion against your amendments. That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u49	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 244.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u50	Don't worry, Madam Deputy Minister, unlike some, I don't deny anyone the right to speak in this House. According to a 2018 survey by the FIFG – Institut français d'opinion publique – three quarters of French people consider that immigration costs France more than it does, while seven out of ten French people believe that our country no longer has the means to receive immigrants. The impact on public accounts is perceived as negative by 64% of respondents. A clear majority of French respondents – 60% – consider that the reception of foreigners is no longer possible given the differences in values and the problems of cohabitation. An almost identical proportion of respondents felt that immigrants had a negative impact on French identity and the cohesion of society. Unfortunately, recent events have made the French who responded to this survey quite right. In addition, 61% of respondents were concerned about the adverse impact of immigration on respect for secularism. To a lesser degree, and it should be of interest to you, Madam Minister, 49% of the respondents thought that immigration had a negative impact on equality between men and women, and 41% thought that the same was true with regard to respect for minorities, such as homosexuals or Jews. Finally, the link between insecurity and immigration was established by a majority of the panel. Two thirds of French respondents felt that immigration has a negative impact on security, and 53% felt that it maximizes the risk of terrorism. Thus, Madam Deputy Minister, it is more than time to fight against irregular immigration and mass immigration and to move, like other countries no less democratic than France, towards a chosen immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u51	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u52	If you look at the FIFG surveys is a good thing, I also invite you, dear colleague, to read the parliamentary reports. As regards the cost of immigration to our country, I would like to refer to the excellent information report by Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion on the appropriations we are considering, which is one of the authors. He may wish to comment on them, but the findings of this information report are more moderate than those of the survey to which you refer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u53	Pierre-Henri Dumont is often too moderate...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u54	With regard to the fight against irregular immigration, it should be noted that the resources allocated to it have increased more during the quinquennium than in the previous two. The same applies to deportations to the border. In 2019, there were about 19,000 in metropolitan France and about 15,000 overseas. Such levels had never been achieved in the past. Finally, if I understand that the budget year encourages you to punctuate certain lines in order to feed others, in this case you propose to withdraw appropriations for Action 11 "Reception of First-Arrival Foreigners" from Programme 104, on which the financing of the OFII, which has the responsibility of re-engaging at the border, depends. For all these reasons, I personally give an opinion against this amendment which has not been discussed by the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u56	He will be the same as that of the Special Rapporteur. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs. George Pau-Langevin also applauds]] I cannot suggest or imply that immigration would not be a wealth for France and that it would, as a matter of principle, be a sad, negative and unfavourable phenomenon that should be combated. France has also been enriched by the successive waves of immigrants who have contributed enormously to the culture and political life of our country. From Marie Curie to Nicolas Sarkozy, from Zinédine Zidane to Léon Gambetta, from Omar Sy to Yannick Noah, immigrants have enriched France and the French Republic. In this Chamber, where the term "French Republic" is precisely used, I cannot therefore allow it to be said that immigration inherently harms France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u57	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u58	Since I was invited by Jean-Noël Barrot, I will give some details of the information report I have made with my colleague Stephanie Do, in which we estimate the different costs of immigration to France. As regards the cost of immigration on public finances, the subject of your amendment, the balance is in France, contrary to what is happening in almost all OECD countries – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development –, slightly negative, it is between -0.2 and -0.5 % of GDP. Our report explains this for a simple reason: unlike most OECD countries, France is not subject to high immigration on professional grounds – only 13% of admissions – but to high immigration on family grounds – 43% of admissions. As a result, the wealth creation of immigrants is much less important than their social spending weight. This is a reality: immigration in recent years has a higher cost for French public finances than in other OECD countries. The information report therefore tends to prove that it is necessary to turn to immigration that is more decidedly chosen than what we are currently doing. This conclusion is in line with some of the amendments tabled by the Republican Group to which I belong for the past three years, but which have unfortunately been rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u59	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 1413.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u60	I very much hope that this amendment will enable us to get out of the dialogue of the deaf in which we are. Our will is not to oppose those who would be for immigration and those who would be against it, but to ask ourselves about the management of immigration. At what level do we want to place the arrival cursor? The aim of this amendment is to move EUR 50 million from Action 11 "Reception des primo-arrivals", contained in Programme 104 "Integration and access to French nationality", to Action 03 "Combat against irregular immigration" of Programme 303 "Immigration and asylum". You pointed out earlier that the appropriations for Action 03 will increase by EUR 5 million in 2021, just above inflation. However, if we want to increase the number of deportations to the border, this will necessarily involve a substantial increase in the appropriations for this action. Basically, what we want to say to you is that welcoming too much is a bad reception. Your policy is not balanced. For the past three years, you have used a formula, "humanity and firmness", which sounds well from a marketing point of view, but we see that all migration problems have worsened since the law of 10 September 2018 for controlled immigration, effective asylum and successful integration, which Gérard Collomb had defended. This text is a failure. And if Emmanuel Macron, even today on the occasion of a trip to the Pyrénées-Orientales, says that the rules of the Schengen agreements must change, we have been alerting you to this need for three years. How many people can we welcome and integrate in good conditions in 2020, given the economic, social, health and safety context we know? Once this issue is resolved, we can eventually talk about the rest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u61	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u62	As Jean-Noël Barrot pointed out, the resources devoted to the fight against irregular immigration have increased sharply in recent years. They amounted to 86 million euros in 2017, compared to nearly 130 million euros in 2021. I therefore disagree with you when you say that nothing is done or that we are failing. On the contrary, I believe that our action is strong and you are right to point out that the President of the Republic is himself mobilized on this important issue. While our country is divided and there are strong tensions in many areas, I also believe that attention must be paid to the figures we are talking about and to their possible manipulation. In the summary statement of your amendment, you state that we granted 275,000 residence permits in 2019 and that this is an unreasonable and inadequate figure in terms of France's capacity. As the Court of Auditors points out in a recent report, I would rather stress that France grants very few residence permits compared to its population: 3.72 per 100,000 inhabitants to be precise. France is a large country and the figures should be brought back to demography. Sweden grants almost 15 titles per 100,000 inhabitants, Germany more than 12 and Spain nearly 8. Together with the United States, France is therefore one of the least-delivered Western countries. So let us relativize things, because to have the soothing debate that you called for your wishes in your introduction, it is necessary to objectify the figures and to cross them. A shared analysis will then be able to emerge and determine the most appropriate policies possible. As the committee has not examined this amendment, I am giving an opinion which is unfavourable in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u63	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u64	As Pacôme Rupin said, this is not a choice we have to make between, on the one hand, welcoming people and working on their integration journeys and, on the other hand, fighting irregular immigration. Since 2017, we've been doing both. Are things perfect? No. Are we in a situation comparable to the situation we have known for several decades? Yes. Since 2017, have the President of the Republic, the Government and the parliamentary majority acted decisively and in a balanced manner on both sides? Absolutely. Your amendment calls on us to withdraw money at the reception of first-time arrivals. Let me tell you what will happen if it is adopted: we will no longer be able to teach French to immigrants who arrive for the first time in France,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u65	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u66	... we will no longer be able to present, during formations, the French conception of secularism and defend it; we will no longer be able to offer integration paths during which we form and try to share the values of the Republic; We will no longer intervene on equality between women and men or on the issue of polygamy. That's what you're proposing to stop. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] So how can you both advocate assimilation and the end of reception programs for first-time arrivals? Assimilation does not happen by magic, but through a determined work carried out by the state services and associations with the first arrivals. It would not help assimilation to stop the programs dedicated to them. The Government's opinion was therefore obviously unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u67	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u68	I listened carefully to your statement, Madam Minister, and I am amazed by the anachronism of this budget in view of the reality of our country. Let us admit that we are in total bankruptcy with regard to the control of illegal immigration and the ability to properly integrate asylum seekers! You say that the budget allocated to immigration control is sufficient, but only 10% of the mission's total budget is allocated to the control of illegal immigration, compared to 90% to the management of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u69	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u70	With regard to the latter, we must break out of blindness and abandon political debates that serve no one, and especially not democracy: in 2019, out of 59,000 rejected asylum seekers, only 18,000 were returned to the border. I'm talking about the rejected here; It is not a question of calling into question the fundamental principle of the right of asylum, to which we are very attached – I would also like to stop having us say the opposite, because it is quite unbearable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u71	We don't make you say anything; You do it very well yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u72	According to the Court of Auditors, 92 % of the obligations to leave France notified to rejected asylum seekers are not fulfilled. Those are the numbers. We are bankrupt about our ability to control illegal immigration. On the other hand, I would like to go back to your speech, Madam Deputy Minister. Our colleague Emmanuelle Ménard made it very clear that not all terrorists were immigrants. Reducing words in the Chamber, as you have done, is a veil of reality; It is bad for the control of illegal immigration and terrorist persons within it. The latest terrorist actions were committed by persons illegally arriving on French soil. We need to be clear on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u73	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont, draftsman of the opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u74	I would like to welcome Mr Di Filippo's excellent amendment; I am not sure that all the rapporteurs will say the same thing about an amendment from the Republican benches, but I am happy to be able to do so today. I heard a few minutes ago that the budget for border renewals was on the rise. That is true, it is up by 1.8 million euros; But, looking in detail, it is only rising on one post: the cost of kerosene, to increase the rotations of the Beechcraft which sends migrants back to the Balkans and the Carpathians. These are people who come from Romania, who actually have nothing to do in France and whose asylum application has been rejected, or migrants from Albania or Georgia who have arrived in the European Union because the Government has decided, together with the other countries of the Union, to liberalize visas – that is, in reality, to facilitate the diversion of the asylum application in our country. Of course, you are obliged to increase the budget for air trips to the Balkans and the Carpathians: this is the direct result of visa liberalisation. Thus, despite the increase in the budget to combat irregular immigration, zero additional euro is allocated to the costs of ticketing, which would make it possible to return migrants to the Maghreb, sub-Saharan Africa or Asia. But, since you are not making any effort on consular passes – you have only requested 6,000 for more than 600,000 rejected asylum seekers – and that the rates of return of those requested from countries in the Middle East, sub-Saharan Africa and Asia are close to 0%; Since you don't use the diplomatic weapon, you don't need to increase the ticketing fee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u76	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u77	I share the view of the Deputy Minister. It is quite exciting that my colleagues in the Republican Group repeat that there are foreigners in the country who do not respect our laws, who do not integrate, while at the same time taking on a budget whose first concrete materialization is the learning of French. This seems unacceptable to me in view of the much bolder policies pursued by other countries – I am thinking of Canada, but not only – in order to make it possible to better disseminate the first factor of connection between human beings, namely the common language. This is one of France's weaknesses. You, who love France, should like to be taught French and want those who arrive in the national territory to speak our language and understand its laws. It's a sine qua non. If you want to abolish this EUR 50 million budget, you show that in reality you do not want immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u78	But it's because of the budget constraint!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u79	Finally, I would like to go back to Mrs Ménard's sophism: "Yes, not all immigrants are terrorists, but I see that some terrorists are immigrants. And you're finishing your state medical aid surgery. We could go on with sophisms like that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u80	It's not a sophistry, it's reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u81	Not all men are paedophiles, but most paedophiles are men; not all people who drink are alcoholics, but alcoholics are people who drink... That would be absurd.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u82	It's not a sophistry! You're the sophist.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u83	Please, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u84	[[Ms Emmanuelle Ménard exclaimed]] By doing this, you demonstrate a reality that you want to defile, a human reality that is also the mark of our country: the fact that people from all over the world come here,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u85	Please, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u86	...that we make France of all wood, and that we must continue to do so through public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u87	I call Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u88	I would like to give a few points of reply to Mr Bonnivard regarding the resources allocated to the fight against irregular immigration and the policy of returning to the border. First, these means declined when your party was in power, between 2007 and 2012, and they increased during the current quinquennium. Secondly, you say that they represent only 10% of the budget; Looking at the budget blue, one can actually feel that only 10% of the resources of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration mission are devoted to this policy. Nevertheless, I refer you to another excellent report, my own, which has tried to quantify precisely the cost of a return to the border. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how much it costs to expel an irregular foreigner?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u89	Less expensive than keeping it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u90	It costs 14,000 euros. Why? Not only are the administrations concerned by the mission we are discussing today's appropriations being asked for, but other actors such as the judiciary and law enforcement must also be asked, so that once reconstituted, the full cost of the policy of extending the border is 500 million euros, i.e. about 30 % of the mission's appropriations and not 10 %. Of course, there is a form of return to the border that is much less expensive for public finances: it is assisted returns. I welcome the opening of 1500 places to prepare for voluntary return decided by the minister delegate, and I am surprised not to find any incentives in your amendments to go further, since a voluntary return costs EUR 2500 instead of EUR 14000. Having said that, re-examining borders is not a matter of money – it could be – it is mainly a diplomatic issue. On this point, our colleague Pierre-Henri Dumont is right to point out that, as a result of the health crisis, the rate of issuance of consular passes fell in 2020. However, this rate has increased in recent years thanks to France's investment, but also to Europe's investment; the explanation given by Pierre-Henri Dumont, moreover, makes the brilliant demonstration that it is by moving towards a harmonised and common asylum policy that we will succeed in obtaining consular passes under better conditions from the countries of origin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u91	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u92	I, too, would like to provide some answers. First, with regard to consular laissez-passer, the Government was pursuing determined diplomatic action. It is with the aim of convincing several countries to "take back" their nationals that the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, began a diplomatic tour – in Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Malta and elsewhere – to carry out from country to country this work of diplomacy, in connection with the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian – work that had not been done previously. Secondly, since MPs Les Républicains and Ms Ménard are asking us together about the remoteness of the territory, I repeat that 16326 people had been removed in 2010, compared to 23746 in 2019. The Government therefore had no lessons to learn in that regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u93	How many entrances?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u94	[[Ms. Émilie Bonnivard protested]] This is more in 2019 than in 2010, including on the ratio. It's easy to give lessons with "there's only one, we have to"! In reality, the Government is acting. I'm the one who has the floor, Congresswoman. Thirdly, border control is not part of the budget we are discussing. We're going astray! This mission does not include the number of law enforcement personnel mobilized for border control. The President of the Republic announced a few hours ago, when he travelled with the Minister of the Interior, that 4,800 additional police officers, gendarmes and soldiers of Operation Sentinel would be deployed to ensure border control, primarily at the borders with Italy and Spain, since these are the problems at present. The Government was taking concrete action, and that budget was one of its illustrations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u95	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2295.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u96	I would like to start with a simple anecdote. Last month, a smuggler was caught in flagrante delicto in Perthus, where the President of the Republic is located this afternoon, because he had taken several smugglers across the border. He was tried for immediate appearance and received a simple reminder of the law. You will tell me that I do not have to dictate their decision to the judges, and you will be entirely right; We are all here respectful of the separation of powers. But this fact is significant in the spirit behind your fight against illegal immigration. The amendment concerns unaccompanied minors, of which we have not yet talked much. Many of them are major and very few come from countries at war. Their arrival is organized by channels, including mafias. We are very far from the poor orphan driven by conflict. It is not a conspiracy site that says so, but a 2017 Senate report: it appears from the hearings conducted by the Senate that, in the vast majority of cases, young people claiming to be MNA – unaccompanied minors – present themselves directly to the departments' child welfare services, including in rural departments far from traditional migration routes, which means that the system of reception of minors has been perverted. These arrivals are part of a logic of journeys organized from the countries of origin by real channels that know very well the functioning of social assistance for children in France. In addition, it appears that a significant proportion of persons presenting themselves as NCMs are ultimately assessed as major. When will we decide to take up the issue of unaccompanied minors, such as false asylum seekers? As my colleague Di Filippo has said, more than 90% of rejected false asylum seekers are not brought back to the border.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u97	I ask you to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u98	I welcome Mr Darmanin's diplomatic effort with the countries concerned, but it is not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u99	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u100	The issue of unaccompanied minors is essential and, if we talk little about it in the context of this mission, it is because it is part of the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities", of which I am also Special Rapporteur. I agree with you on one point: it is the need to combat specific immigration channels, which are a reality. More and more children aged 12 or 13 are risking their lives by crossing the Mediterranean in appalling conditions because of these channels. You quoted Mr. Darmanin; I know that the Government is mobilized to fight against them, in connection with the countries of origin. That's the key to the problem. The fight is also taking place at European level, because it is at European borders that immigration must be prevented. I would like to take this opportunity to present one of the proposals I made in the report on the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission. Unlike you, I think we need to do more for unaccompanied minors or young adults in our country, by devoting additional resources to their reception and support. There are too many people on the street. This is the case for some minors – sometimes extremely young – because of the legal actions taken by the departments to challenge their minority, but also those whose assessment has established the majority – since these cases actually exist. As we all know, these young people are present in the streets of our cities, idle and without accompaniment, everywhere in France, whatever the department. We lack a mechanism to accompany and welcome both those who may legitimately be allowed to remain, to obtain asylum and international protection, and those who will have to leave our territory to return to their country of origin. Madam Minister-in-Charge, the support of young people, once they have been assessed as major, is not the responsibility of the departments but of the State. We cannot leave them on the street, without solutions, as is all too often the case today. [[Mrs. Cathy Racon-Bouzon applauds]] Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u102	For all the reasons mentioned above, I am against the proposal to withdraw funds from the programme 104 "Integration and access to French nationality", which finances all the arrangements for first-time arrivals I mentioned earlier. Mrs Ménard, whatever your speech on unaccompanied minors is, this is the subject of your amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u103	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u104	Unaccompanied minors often pose problems for departmental councils, who complain about their number and the appalling burden they constitute. However, I see that their number is decreasing and that the situation is well regulated. Rest assured, Madam Special Rapporteur: unaccompanied minors learn French very quickly and make a lot of efforts. Many associations and volunteers are committed to helping them. They are very well integrated, I can see in particular in the sectors left behind by our young people, such as building and public works, hotels and restaurants. They're study students who don't pose a problem. To remove the funds allocated to French courses would, in my view, be a serious mistake, since integration first goes through the language.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the day of a great debate on this subject. Before we proceed to the vote, I will give the floor to Mrs Ménard, Mrs Essayan, who has not spoken this afternoon, and Mr Dumont. Mr draftsman, you are on the bench of the committees, but I would ask you to be as brief as possible. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u106	I will be very brief; No one here has proposed to delete the French courses. We are all here, including on the right benches, very attached to the French language. This is why we regularly propose to focus on learning it, rather than on learning other languages. In ELCOs – native language and culture teaching – now deleted, or EILEs – international foreign language teaching – for example, it seems to me that it would be better to teach French to young foreigners rather than their original language. Moreover, I do not know where you feel that the number of unaccompanied minors in France is decreasing; All the numbers show the opposite, Mrs. Brulebois.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u107	Depends on the department!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u108	Finally, Madam Deputy Minister, I would be pleased if the rules on the financial admissibility of amendments would change. Members should be allowed to earmark additional appropriations, without having to pledge them to respect the budgetary balance of each mission. I would be delighted, therefore, to be able to add funds, in particular for the fight against illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u109	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u110	It is obvious that we are debating a subject that divides politically. For Members of the MoDem Democratic Movement and Related Democrats the fraternity is also built by talking together. It is therefore very important to allow the people we have decided to welcome, to learn our language in order to integrate as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u111	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u112	This is how we will avoid "making" people who remain "to the side", frustrated to be unable to be one of us and to be prevented from bringing all their talents to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u113	The draftsman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u114	We have the same argument every time we want to increase the appropriations for one program: we reduce those for another program on the same mission, so we would be opposed to it. I find this speech easy, and unfair, because we have no other solutions. We simply apply a rule on the financial admissibility of amendments of parliamentary origin: those which increase the appropriations of a programme are examined only if they reduce the appropriations of another programme of the same mission by the same amount. This makes it difficult to manoeuvre when we are dealing, as is the case today, with a mission that has only two programmes, and this does not necessarily mean that we want to reduce the appropriations for a given action. Therefore, avoid repeating this argument in every budget discussion. Madam Deputy Minister, you are well aware that the pledge is the only means at the disposal of Members, in particular those of the opposition, to make their amendments admissible. The Government can always lift it, if it shares the objective of the amendment, allowing the maintenance of credits that have been managed only to respect the balance provided for by the LOLF – Organic Law of 1 August 2001 on Finance Laws. I'm going to the MNAs and the young adults. We must ask the question of their fate – which you have done brilliantly, Madam Special Rapporteur – but also deal with the file dedicated to them. It is known that a national file experiment has been launched, but some departments still refuse to register them. Even if an MNA has been recognized as a major in a department, such an assessment can be ignored a few kilometres further, in the neighboring department. This is an extremely important issue: highly organized, structured networks of smugglers take advantage of it and send young people from department to department. A system should be devised to force departments to participate in this national roster in order to put an end to these abuses. The problem also arises with bone tests. My colleague Di Filippo has had very good comments in the gallery this morning: a presumption of majority must be established, if they are refused. Finally, the fact that young idle adults find themselves in the streets is not a fatality. Those who do not have a residence permit and are therefore illegal must be returned to their country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u115	Yes, but for that, we need means!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u116	As I said this morning, in reality, today in France, for these young people, the alternative is not between being protected and being expelled, but between being protected and becoming illegal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u117	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u118	This is the last time I come back to the question, because I think I have already answered it earlier. In budgetary debates, every parliamentarian is free to defend amendments; No one's contesting it. [[Exclaims on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also exclaims]] These amendments reflect political choices. Thus, it is a political choice, on the part of the National Rally or of Mrs Ménard – clearly with the support of the deputies of the group Les Républicains – to propose to withdraw credits devoted to the reception of foreigners, and, yes, to the French courses. [[Ms Emmanuelle Ménard protested]] You may say that theoretically you are in favour of these teachings, if you propose to remove their funding, it is that you are against! It is a manifest lack of consistency between your words and your actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u119	The "trumping" is on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u120	I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 2285.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u121	Obviously, I was wrong to believe that on these issues, as I wished, we could get out of the dialogue of the deaf and the trials of intent with the left, whether it be walking or unsubmissive. We tried to explain to you that we had to take the money somewhere within the mission. For my part, I would be in favour of it being possible to guarantee from the appropriations of another mission – I am thinking, for example, of State medical aid...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u122	Here we go! Like by chance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u123	... or those of the same programme – in this case, I was thinking about the appropriations for the creation of additional places for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u124	That's what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u125	You're distorting my point by saying that I don't want French classes for foreigners. But not at all! I want them to take place, but for fewer people, because we have to accommodate less, to welcome better, and to focus our efforts on some. If you did not constantly transvestinate our words, and you judged us by sticking to our intentions, the ones we express on the microphone, that would be pretty good already. You were talking about 2007. But don't forget that then we are being expelled twice as many as today in proportion to the number of people entering France. Performance and effort were much more laudable, and policy was more realistic. Since you were in power, the number of residence permits has increased by 43%. We therefore table amendments to rebalance the appropriations between the envelopes devoted to the reception of first-time arrivals, in particular asylum seekers, and those dedicated to the renewals at the border. If you want to prevent spending from derailing completely, you will have to adopt principles of firmness to reduce the number of those who arrive in France for reasons of comfort, or social, without really having a plan of life or wanting to participate in our society project. This will necessarily involve very strong measures concerning our social system. These words, we can hold them very quietly, and perfectly assume them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u127	The amendment was not discussed in committee. With regard to an amendment of 450 000 euros, if you pass the phrase, you would almost want to be right, Mr Di Filippo, since its adoption would not upset the balance of the mission. However, I give an unfavorable opinion, in my personal capacity. You say that you have to "accept less to accommodate better". If one can understand such a project concerning immigration, for the right of asylum, that is not possible. Indeed, if the right of asylum is the honour of France, a national treasure, it is precisely because it is unconditional. This does not prevent us from finding that the reception system for asylum seekers is dysfunctional, because, since 2015, delays have increased as the crisis continues; because, for many years, we have struggled to bring those who have been rejected back to the border; because, throughout this time, we have forgotten to take care of the integration of protected persons, in particular the beneficiaries of the right of asylum. The central objective of the "Immigration, Asylum and Integration" mission is to redress our right to asylum. Considerable efforts have been made over the past three years to address three issues: delays in the processing of asylum applications, deportations to the border and integration. Rather than saying that we need "more" or "less" immigration, we believe that we must preserve the unconditional nature of the right of asylum – this is a principle we hold – and avoid its deviousness by resolving problems one after the other. Finally – and this is not really a detail – in the summary statement of your amendment, you write that "30000 illegal immigrants are regularised every year: this access to French nationality should no longer be possible [...]". Care must be taken not to mix everything: regularization and access to nationality are two different issues. This is an opportunity to welcome the decision taken by the Deputy Minister to naturalize a number of foreign doctors, health-care workers and security officers who have committed themselves to the service of the Republic. By granting them naturalization, the Republic is equal to itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u128	It's called the chosen immigration!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u129	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u131	Same opinion as the Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u132	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u133	I agree with my colleague Di Filippo: our debates must remain honest, and we must avoid bad faith and sophistry in the words of our colleague Corbière. But here you give a brilliant example. Whenever you are in trouble or bankruptcy on this subject, which is certainly complex, you refer us to 2010: but the situation, though imperfect, was very different at this time! And again, sophism, you are driving back, compared to the incoming flow, twice as many rejected asylum rights as we did ten years ago. Rather than using sophisms, we should talk to each other without bad faith. On the question of learning French, Madam Minister-in-Office, it is not up to the debate to put The Republicans in default, while they are for integration and assimilation. You know the budgetary constraints and those of the amendments: it is unbearable for you to come back to this point every time. It is not worthy of the height that we must maintain in our discussions on the subject. Finally, we must not confuse sophism with syllogism, Mr Corbière: I am a granddaughter of immigrants and I would never allow myself to say that all immigrants are terrorists, but we must also look at the reality of what we have been living in our country for five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u134	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u135	Flow and stock should not be confused, even if these words are inappropriate for migrants who are not goods. I thank you, Mr Special Rapporteur, for clearly distinguishing asylum from immigration: when we speak of asylum, it is France, a country of human rights, and our values that resonate, while immigration involves devoting resources to its control. The stock is the people who will never be evicted – you know that they will never be evicted. No one will expel a woman with children who has been living in France for a few years: even if you came to power tomorrow, perhaps in a coalition with us, dear colleagues of the group The Republicans, we would never expel people who have lived for four, five, ten years sometimes, in our country. You have to say it. Not to mention the problems caused by the Dublin procedure: until they are resolved, there will be some people who will be on our territory and who will have to be taken care of. I am not proud to be French when I see so many people sleeping on the street, in scandalous conditions, or when I receive, on my social networks, testimonies of absolutely shameful situations. France seems to have become the country of slavery, some people are exploited, beaten, without being able to file a complaint! That is the reality! Let us try to heighten our minds: we need means to combat illegal immigration, and even more important means to integrate people who will never be expelled from our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u136	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 1026.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u137	We all have fairly strong convictions on this subject. We are not opposed to the opening of a reflection on immigration policies, and the first objective should be to prevent people from uprooting and tearing themselves out of their country. In the meantime, policies and auctions show their lack of effectiveness. We must avoid the vicious circle, denounced by the Court of Auditors, of the accumulation of files, due to our poor reception capacity, which plunges some people into irregularity and precariousness, which only makes the situation worse. We propose to allocate additional resources to OFPRA in order to receive people with dignity and to process files and requests as soon as possible to clarify the situation of many people in the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u139	The committee has delivered an unfavorable opinion on your amendment, which deals with a crucial subject: accommodation and the dignity of reception, which matters to me, as to many of us, at the highest point. If you'll excuse me, I was wrong about the amendment, and I was talking about the next one... In No. 1026, you propose to increase the resources of OFPRA, while they have made significant progress in recent years: the Office's budget was EUR 65 million three years ago and amounted to 90 million in 2020 and 2021. Many recruitments have been made. In 2021, OFPRA expects a little more than 130,000 asylum applications, while it should be able to issue 170,000 decisions. The time frame for investigation should therefore be reduced, even if I remain cautious because of the health situation. The effort made over the past three years will bear fruit and reduce educational delays. The committee's opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u140	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 2315.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u141	We want to increase the budget for emergency accommodation for asylum seekers. It is necessary to put an end to the many dramatic examples that have been mentioned in our discussions, regardless of our views on immigration policies. It is not tolerable that the precariousness and deterioration of health conditions are spreading in our country, regardless of the length of time it takes to examine the applicants' files. That is the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u142	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u143	No one can be satisfied with the fact that foreigners find themselves on the street, nor with the French: this is unacceptable. The resources devoted to accommodation have increased sharply, as the number of places has increased from just over 50,000 in 2015 to just over 100,000 in 2021, a doubling. So the effort is important, but there are still people on the street. The reasons are many, but they are linked to an embolization of our system and the difficulty for refugees, who are protected and allowed to stay in our country, to find housing. We are all in regular contact with the mayors of our territories and we must ask them to reserve social housing in the municipalities to receive refugees, in order to free up emergency places for asylum seekers. As it stands, I agree with you to recognize the difficulty of the situation, but the new places scheduled for 2021 will ease things. A major effort must also be made by all actors: mayors and communities must set aside housing for refugees in order to smooth out routes and access to housing. The committee has not considered the amendment, to which I give an unfavorable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u144	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u145	The PLF provides for the creation of 4000 additional places of accommodation for asylum seekers, including 3000 places in the reception centre for asylum seekers and 1000 places in the reception and examination centre for asylum seekers. The recovery plan increases the park by 500 places in the CAES. In addition, the creation of 1500 places in return preparedness devices – DPAR – helps to reduce the undue presence of asylum seekers in the HUDA Park and to accommodate more asylum seekers. In total, the capacity of the emergency shelter for asylum seekers has increased by more than 30% since 2017. It will be 51826 seats authorised by 31 December 2020 and will remain unchanged next year. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u146	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 1027.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u147	With this amendment, we propose the creation of a "Saving the Shipwrecked in the Mediterranean" programme to finance the chartering by the French State of a ship that would provide relief in the Mediterranean to ships in distress, amounting to EUR 13.7 million in 2021. Again, regardless of our views on migration and immigration, each of us is outraged by the situation of people trying to cross the Mediterranean on makeshift boats. In 2019, 1300 people died in these attempts. We are all proud that our country has abolished the death penalty and we could try to prevent people from losing their lives only because they are trying to escape poverty. It is a question of giving itself the means to do so, as the amendment proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u148	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u149	The committee rejected this amendment. You are right to say that the Mediterranean has become a cemetery and that we cannot remain deaf to the distress calls made by migrants crossing the Mediterranean at the risk of their lives. We cannot say that France has done nothing. For the past two years, our country has taken care of 700 people who have crossed the Mediterranean. In its territorial waters in the English Channel, France is actively involved in the rescue of people whose lives are at risk. I want to pay tribute to the police officers who, some ten days ago, jumped into the sea to rescue migrants whose lives were in danger in our territorial waters of the English Channel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u151	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u152	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u153	Our logic is diametrically opposed to that of an amendment like that. By chartering our own boats to bring migrants back to our ports, we would only encourage the activity of smugglers and facilitate their task. There are legal channels for immigration, with files that can be filed in the countries of origin. By doing the broom car in the Mediterranean, we would only reduce the burdens and increase the profits of smugglers, thus encouraging their criminal activity. The solution is to be firm enough to discourage any attempt to cross the Mediterranean. Of course it seems utopian: we will never be able to prevent all crossings or illegal immigration. But we need to do something strong enough to discourage these attempts as much as possible, because behind these people are very powerful slave networks, or in any case that support sums of money raised to people whom they then let die in the middle of the Mediterranean – the observation on this point is shared. If we were to participate in this game, by chartering a ship as you propose, we would only validate this scheme and encourage all African youth to embark on the journeys of death.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u154	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u155	I thank the Group of the European People's Party for having tabled this very fine amendment. Letting people drown near our beaches is totally inhuman. I still cannot understand that the European Union, together with France and the countries advanced in this duty of humanity, cannot mobilise a minimum of resources, alongside the organisations whose daily struggle I would like to welcome. Mr Di Filippo, I cannot accept your comments. I mean, when you see someone drowning, we'll get it! According to you, you have to let him drown, otherwise everyone will come to us... What the hell is this? More means are given to care for the animals that hang out on the streets than for the migrants who drown! Not only in the Mediterranean, but also in the English Channel. Democracy is not being served by a humane treatment of these people against the need for a very firm migration policy. Please do not oppose all this, because otherwise we fall into the arms of the populists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u156	Mrs Aina Kuric, whose group has not yet spoken, has the floor. But please, let's be brief.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u157	[[Applause on the benches of the SOC, FI, GDR, LT groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and some benches of the LaREM group]] Can we avoid saying that every asylum seeker is a priori a false asylum seeker, that every unaccompanied minor is a priori a false minor, that saving migrants at sea amounts to encouraging smugglers? At some point, you have to take responsibility. We have talked about it, a European response is needed: in December a debate will be held on the migration pact, which we have been waiting for a long time. Meanwhile, people are dying, when they are not already at the bottom of the Mediterranean. It is really time to act and take responsibility. To do so, resources must be allocated. France must also act at the national level if we are to propel the momentum advocated by the Renaissance Group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u158	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u159	I would have felt uncomfortable not responding to Mr Di Filippo, who suggests watermarked that drowning is basically a policy of migration, of deterrence. It's absolutely unacceptable to hear that, it's inhuman. Yes, France must take its share of responsibility. We have left other European states – Italy, Greece – alone to assume a European responsibility. France did not take its part. The European Union has not done the right thing. That has been said, we must not put suspicion on all those who are forced to flee their country. You know, we have thousands of reasons to stay home and very little to leave! Of course, we will support the proposal in the amendment: it is the choice of humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u160	I'm not surprised at you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u161	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u162	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Nor can I hear that drowning is a good way to regulate our immigration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u163	Nobody said that! It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u164	[[Exclaims persist on the banks of the LR group]] I have heard that we should not act in the Mediterranean, not save the suffering and distressed. It is difficult to hear in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u165	Please, ladies and gentlemen, calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u166	Unfortunately, I was unable to participate in the relocation of the study group "Conditions for the reception of migrants", which met the SOS Méditerranée association and noted the difficulties it was experiencing. Personally, I am in favour of a commitment of funds to help migrants until there is a European response.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u167	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u168	It relates to the smooth running of the debates. It is absolutely unbearable: no one said in the Chamber, and certainly not on the benches of the LR group, that drowning was a migration policy. This is an insult to me and my colleagues as members of the nation! Very honestly, it's unbearable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u169	That's what your colleague said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u170	No, that's absolutely not what he said. I understand what Mr Alexis Corbière is saying, but the answer we want to give is not the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u171	Thank you, Mrs Bonnivard, your position is very clear. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor for another point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u172	Based on Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure, because since the beginning of this discussion, on an issue as important as immigration, all our comments have been distorted. I made it very clear earlier that not all migrants were terrorists; The minister replied, "You said that all migrants were terrorists. Di Filippo speaks on the imperative of managing the boats that cross the Mediterranean and you say that he would have described drowning as a migration policy. It's not possible to go on like this!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u173	Thank you, dear colleague, for not doing the debate again in a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u174	Mrs Stella Dupont, Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u175	I hear the point of order, but when you use the terms "broom car" of immigration, Mr. Di Filippo, they naturally come across all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u176	In what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u177	This is not the case for those who unfortunately perish at sea. The anger of both is unfortunately understandable when such statements are made in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u178	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u179	I'm going back to some basics. Firstly, there is a European response to these problems. By hearing some of the comments, one might have the feeling that letting ships sink and their passengers drown is a deliberate choice. It's a terrible tragedy every time. I would like to pay tribute to all the forces of law and order who, still recently, have saved the lives of migrants drowning off Calais.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u180	There are also NGOs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u181	It is essential to commend the work of the associations involved, but also of the law enforcement agencies, who are very regularly required to carry out this type of intervention. Secondly, I recall the European rule: a ship in distress can dock in the nearest and safest port. This rule is applied every time. Finally, a principle of responsibility and solidarity between European countries must apply: France must welcome as many migrants as Germany. There is a commitment to solidarity, sharing and distribution of migrants among the countries of the European Union. That is how it is actually going. It is important, in this passionate debate – which is normal, we all have positions to make – to recall the reality, particularly that of the work of the State services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u182	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 1028.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u183	In keeping with each other's positions, and without prejudicing discussion with colleagues in the LR Group, this amendment follows the same logic as the previous ones. Mr Di Filippo, you are a very structured man and I respect your opinion: for you, a reception policy that is too favourable will bring more migrants. For my part, I don't believe it. I do not think that the quality of I do not know too much what social benefit leads women and men to leave their country and risk their lives. This amendment follows on from the three previous ones: it aims to increase the annual appropriations for the allowance for asylum seekers, whose underfunding has been pointed out by many institutions, including the Court of Auditors. This lack of resources, although some improvements have been made, weighs on the reception conditions, on the capacity to cope with the deterioration of the health status of asylum seekers, on the presentation of their dossiers. I do not know whether the amendment deserves as long a debate as the previous one, but in any case our coherence is confronted with your consistency, let us admit. I do not believe, even if we sometimes have the lively verb, that we have distorted your position. I'm defending one logic, you're defending another, and life cuts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u185	I am leaving the political field for the benefit of the budget. Although it was rejected in committee, it is a very good amendment. Why? Because it takes note of what has happened in the last ten years: the budget for aid for asylum seekers is systematically over-executed. In other words, the Government has consistently missed its forecast, and has not provided sufficient funds to meet the needs for assistance to asylum-seekers. Together with Stella Dupont, we tried last spring to understand the origin of this situation, in order to prevent the Government from making the same mistake again for the year 2021. It is not only for reasons of sincerity or budgetary insinuity, it is also because, in many cases, trying to compensate for the over-implementation of aid for asylum seekers, we draw on the integration budget, which is obviously not acceptable. So with Stella Dupont, we got answers that would allow us to think that perhaps, for the first time in ten years, we will not have an over-execution of the ADA. The Government's forecast is fully satisfactory. That is why this amendment has received an unfavourable opinion from the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u187	Unfavorable opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u188	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u189	I wanted to tell Mr Corbière that I appreciated his speech and that he himself never caricatured my words. We accept our disagreements perfectly and live them calmly. The FI Group wishes to give more resources to the reception of immigrants; That's quite commendable. We wish to welcome less, which is just as commendable in the current situation. As you said, Mr. Corbière, in the end it is the French who cut. What we do not appreciate is that our remarks are distorted, or that we are prevented from responding on the merits by giving us comments that we have not made. As far as ADA is concerned, you are right: while staffing is constantly increasing, the budget is well overrun every year. ADA's valuations continue to be higher than family benefits; It can hit us. It must be said, there are situations – not all of them, of course – in which the money paid under the ADA returns to the country of origin. Of course, migrants live in very difficult conditions, remain in tents and eat very little, or a parallel economy. However, out of the 400 euros received in the month, they can make use of only 200 of the various aids; the remaining 200 euros are returned through Western Union to the country of origin, for example Lesotho, where they can support several families. So we have to get out of the hypocrisy about ADA. I am well aware that this will lead to a cry of orfray on some benches, especially the majority, but as long as you do not prohibit the transfer of money to the beneficiaries of these aids – it was a good idea of Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont – as long as a replacement system, based for example on vouchers, is not introduced, there will be this kind of drift.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u191	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2100.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u192	To provide Mr Di Filippo with a clarification on money transfers to the countries of origin, the ADA card now prevents such transfers. So this is no longer happening, unfortunately from my point of view, because I consider this to be a mistake. Since May 2018, OFII has been running a multilingual pre-reception telephone platform to ensure that asylum seekers have access to the first reception facilities in Île-de-France. This platform has removed queues of waits in the streets, but it has created other difficulties. Initially free of charge, her access has been paid for since August 2018 and asylum seekers are struggling to reach her and pay high telephone charges. On 25 November 2019, the Paris Administrative Court ordered the OFII to resume negotiations with ARCEP – Authority for the regulation of electronic communications, postal services and the distribution of the press – in order to ensure this free of charge. The OFII initiated the process, but its application for a free number was rejected in June 2020. Free access was estimated by OFII at 1.6 million. The appeal amendment that we propose to you, my fellow special rapporteur and I, does not cover a third of this amount, but we wanted to defend this issue in the Chamber and discuss it with the minister responsible. It was not considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u194	I hear your proposal and I agree with it in substance, but we need a number of technical considerations. The number of the platform that foreigners must call, in Île-de-France, to start a procedure for applying for asylum was initially a green number, entirely free of charge; However, as a special number, it was not accessible, for technical reasons, to certain operators popular abroad, notably Lycamobile, Lebara or Syma. In August 2018, this number became a standard number: its cost is that of a local call. Following the order of the Paris Administrative Court, OFII resumed its negotiations with ARCEP to obtain a free number. However, on 18 June, the competent commission refused to set up an emergency number of the same type as the 15th, 18th or 112th, which would have ensured that it was free of charge and compatible with all telephone operators present in France. The obstacle to setting up a free phone number therefore does not lie in the cost of it: once again, it is of a technical nature. Therefore, the reallocation of budget appropriations that you are proposing is not justified. Nevertheless, the objective of parliamentarians to reach a free call platform is fully shared by the Government; That is why I have taken steps, together with OFII, with the competent authorities. I am committed to achieving this goal as soon as possible. I propose that national representation, particularly the Special Rapporteurs, set a deadline at the end of the year, so that we can take stock of the progress made in the work of the OFII with a view to removing the obstacles, not budgetary, but technical, to the free circulation of this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u195	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u196	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister: we are withdrawing this amendment and will be discussing it again at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u197	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 738.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u198	The aim of this amendment is to create 1000 additional places in the temporary accommodation centres – CPH – for refugees, on the basis of the fact that while the PLF for 2021 already provides for the creation of 6000 places, no provision to this effect was included in the Finance Act for 2020. We must therefore make up for the backlog, which is becoming soaring. We therefore propose to allocate EUR 10 million from programme 303 to Action 11 of programme 104 "Integration and access to French nationality".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u199	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u200	This amendment was rejected in committee. The Finance Bill does not provide for the creation of more places in CPH for refugees, as a considerable effort has been made in this area since 2017. The emphasis is now on access to common law, i.e. housing and especially social housing. Initial results were obtained: 18,000 housing units were mobilized in two years, allowing almost 40,000 refugees to leave the national reception system. It is on this point that our efforts must be made, so that refugees can find themselves as soon as possible, in all aspects of their economic and social life, in the common law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u202	On the appropriations of the mission "Immigration, asylum and integration", I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 739.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u203	I look back on the Special Rapporteur's remarks: this time we are proposing to strengthen the budget devoted to supporting refugees by another EUR 5 million, which the finance law for 2020 had significantly increased while stagnating in the draft finance law for 2021. In order to continue the effort you have just described, this amendment aims to increase the corresponding resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u204	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u205	The substance of this amendment is interesting. I shall, however, express an unfavourable opinion for two reasons. On the one hand, significant efforts have actually been made: almost 20% increase in appropriations in 2020. On the other hand, as Jean-Noël Barrot and I analyse in our information report on the professional integration of refugees and asylum-seekers, the problem posed by this programme 104 is not so much the budgetary inclusion, in insufficient appropriations, as the implementation. The commitment of these new markets, the implementation of these new policies, has taken time. We have noted this, regret it, and we now call on the Government to ensure that the appropriations recorded are consumed. However, this is a matter of under-implementation, not lack of funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u206	I put to the vote the appropriations of the mission "Immigration, asylum and integration".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u207	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 68 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u208	I now call the amendments to the supplementary article after Article 54, attached to the mission "Immigration, asylum and integration". The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 741 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u209	Madam Deputy Minister, you said something fundamental earlier: the Republic must be generous, but must also be respected. Are all asylum seekers fraudsters? No, of course not. Are there frauds or attempts at fraud? Stella Dupont and I don't know. Nevertheless, we want to safeguard our right to asylum, and ADA, against this possibility. The Code on the Entry and Residence of Aliens and the Right of Asylum, CESEDA, allows OFPRA and the National Court of Asylum – CNDA – to receive information from the judicial authority in order to investigate certain cases. We have proposed to the committee, with a reservation, to allow the OFII, which manages the aid to asylum seekers, to benefit from this same information in order to facilitate the detection of possible fraud or attempted fraud at ADA. Our reservation was based on the observation made by Cendra Motin that OFII and OFPRA did not necessarily have the same status, so that what was allowed in the latter might not, in law, be allowed in the former. We did some research. Here is what emerges: OFII and OFPRA are public institutions under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior; OFPRA is neither a jurisdiction nor an independent administrative authority, although it enjoys relative functional independence. Article L. 721-2 of the CESEDA states that he "exercises impartially" his tasks "and receives no instruction in their performance". However, this article does not prevent OFPRA from signing, like OFII, a contract of objectives and performance with its supervising ministry. This link with the executive can be found even in OFPRA's e-mail addresses, which end in ".gouv.fr", as well as those of OFII. I repeat: without being a public institution like any other, OFPRA remains a public administrative institution under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior. This amendment by the Finance Committee is intended to allow another public administrative institution under the same Ministry, OFII, to receive the same information as OFPRA, no more or less.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u211	The purpose of this amendment is to authorise the communication by the judicial authority to the OFII of elements which may demonstrate the fraudulent nature of an application for asylum. You therefore propose to insert a new paragraph in Article L. 713-6 of the CESEDA, which already provides for the transmission of such information to OFPRA and the CNDA. The Government shared the willingness of the Special Rapporteurs to combat fraud. Mr. Barrot, Mrs. Dupont, I would like once again to commend your work on these issues, which has played and continues to play a significant role in the Government's work. However, this provision remains legally questionable or even questionable, as it gives the OFII the opportunity to access data outside the legal fields of its missions. We support the objective; We have doubts about the legal stability of the system. Therefore, we rely on the wisdom of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u212	I call Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont to support Amendment No. 2239.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u213	This is a request for a report – in fact, a request for clarification – on the OFPRA. This has already been said on several occasions, the Finance Act for 2020 had provided for the creation of 200 ETPTs – full-time equivalents worked – but only 150 have been recruited, many of them in the course of the year. That is why I am surprised to see that OFPRA's allocation is growing again, but slightly by EUR 1.2 million, i.e. 1.3%: it covers only salary increases and does not allow new hires. So what about the 50 ETPTs – actually 48, because two have been transferred – not yet created? Were the appropriations we are providing to OFPRA excessive for 2020, or are they insufficient for 2021, since 48 ETPTs will have to be paid more than the previous year? We have repeated this throughout this debate: the more agents the OFPRA employs, the faster asylum applications are processed, and the less we clog this system, which is now completely diverted from its purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u215	Ultimately, you incriminate the way OFPRA credits are budgeted. As far as I am aware, the appropriations for 2021, based on those of 2020, also include these additional 200 ETPTs: unlike you, I am not surprised that there is no difference in this matter between the finance law for 2020 and the PLF for 2021. We retain the same mass of PTSDs, as the Minister Delegate will certainly confirm. In addition, as part of the Spring of the Evaluation, this year we dedicated a work without concession to the 2019 execution, carried out with great demand and rigour: we will also be at the rendezvous in 2020 to analyse finely the implementation of OFPRA's appropriations. As the committee has not examined your amendment, I personally express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u216	We have completed the review of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u217	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u218	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u219	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to work and employment (No 3399, Annex 43 ; No 3488, Volume III.) Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u220	When I began my mandate in 2017 and was appointed Finance Commissioner, I was proud to become Special Rapporteur on the Labour and Employment budget. Indeed, work and employment were a major issue in the quinquennium, after having been an important axis of the electoral campaign. The unemployment rate had to be reduced: our ambition was to fall below the 7 per cent unemployment threshold at the end of the quinquennium. The unemployment rate was then 9.3%. A strategy, an employment policy has therefore been set. What exactly did we do? First, we launched the ICP – the competence investment plan – with a budget of EUR 15 billion and a contract with the regions, which is necessary for its success. We have also reformed vocational training to better support job seekers. We have boosted all the tools of integration through economic activity – IAE – in all the structures – integration enterprises, intermediate associations, workshops and integration projects, adapted enterprises – by changing the method and the objectives. While previously an employee entering a suitable company remained there for his entire career, we wanted, thanks to the support and training, to give him a chance to integrate a so-called classic company. For young people, we have reformed learning. And what a reform! We have made learning a success in the vocational fields! The number of apprentices increased by 16% in 2019 and the number of contracts will exceed by the end of 2020, despite the crisis, the 350,000. We have also accelerated the deployment of the youth guarantee, orchestrated brilliantly by local missions, which provide different answers. We have transformed assisted contracts into skills-based employment pathways – PECs. This was a success, I say, because we have achieved a satisfactory rate of achievement thanks to strengthened support: we have refocused the system on the person recruited and not on the employer. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has led us to an unemployment rate of 7.6% in the first quarter of 2020 – that is the reality, which is not displeased by the unbelievers. Employment policy was a real success. Then the crisis of the covid-19 came: a health, economic and social crisis, which is not over. I am always proud, in this context, to be the special rapporteur on this budget. Indeed, the addition of the Mission's budget of EUR 13.38 billion and the French budget of EUR 13 billion show that all the means are being used to combat unemployment even further. All credit lines are provided, all employment tools are strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to make it, I am telling you! Thus, when I go to a Pôle emploi agency in my department of Tarn, or elsewhere, I can announce to the agents an increase in the number of staff to continue the deployment of the "start-up package", which allows to revive the companies that have not found an employee after thirty days, but also to accompany, by devoting them two real half-days, all those who enter the device. Early accompaniment facilitates the exit of unemployment. These additional staff will also translate into new posts for back office services, where the increase in unemployment will increase the workload. Finally, they will make it possible to strengthen the support of people who remain very far from employment. On the same premises, I will meet the very dynamic director of the local mission, with whom I work regularly. I am in fact every year godfather of two young people whom I accompany to realize how they live their journey. The director will certainly have to push the walls to accommodate more young people; It will be quite a challenge for her! This will also be the case with the structures of integration through economic activity which, when I heard them, did not want to believe in this unprecedented increase in the budget. I know those responsible for these structures; I have been able to measure their enthusiasm, and I know that these additional funds are an important issue for them. To support IAE's structures in this growth, I will propose an amendment to finance their engineering through the IDF – departmental integration funds. In Graulhet, still in the Tarn, project promoters who have been working for 18 months will be able to apply for the "long-term unemployed zero-territories" scheme, thanks to the bill adopted here unanimously. In addition to these measures, we will also be supporting employment centres, which are dynamic and which we will be accompanying once again this year, as will production schools. There are more than six priority neighbourhoods of the city in my constituency and I welcome the announcement of the increase in state participation in the financing of the CECs; I have tabled an amendment to reflect in practice the announcements that the Prime Minister has made with you, the Minister for Labour, Employment and Inclusion. Of course, we will also pursue the plan of investment in skills, and its decline in integration through economic activity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that in these circumstances you will not hesitate to vote for these appropriations, which are both common sense and unprecedented, and to the extent that we could hope for. I would like to thank the minister for her listening and her engagement with us, in the service of the French and French. The journey is long; He's been and is still sore. Much remains to be done, but I am confident that we will succeed. In any case, we are giving ourselves the means to do so, and I want to believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u221	Mr Thibault Bazin, alternate Mr Gérard Cherpion, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u222	I beg you to excuse Gérard Cherpion, who can't be here tonight. He asked me to replace him to make known in open session the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs on the appropriations for the work and employment mission. The discussion of the finance bill for 2021 is taking place in a dramatic period in health, economic and social terms. In the face of this situation, given the need for the Government to take urgent action, the annual expenditure authorization exercise by Parliament loses some of its meaning. The announcement of new expenditures by the Government, expressed in billions of euros, no longer appears to be conditional on prior parliamentary approval. The aim is to limit the consequences of the health crisis by preserving employment. While we can welcome the €400 million increase in payment appropriations, which brings the budget of the "Work and Employment" mission to €13.38 billion, it must nevertheless be noted that this budget remains almost 2 billion lower than that of 2018. We therefore question the conditions for the balance of the budget and the continuity of the effort for the following. The budget of the recovery plan is in addition to that of the mission, amounting to more than EUR 10 billion. However, partial activity, including pre-existing activity, is fully funded by the Recovery Plan. Therefore, the financing of the partial activity in the next FLP can legitimately be questioned. On the other hand, the sharp increase in the budget of integration through economic activity in this PLF is well integrated into the "Work and Employment" mission. We welcome this choice and see it as a lasting commitment of the Government. Madam Minister, the debates in the Committee on Social Affairs, however, left at least six questions unanswered. Firstly, with regard to the means of the public employment service, in particular the appropriations paid to Pôle Emploi, the State is continuing its disengagement, amounting to EUR 130 million this year, while paying two exceptional grants, financed from the appropriations of the recovery plan. The growing dependence of Pôle Emploi on the resources of unemployment insurance poses new difficulties for the operator as the activity slows down, the decline in its resources being accompanied by the increase in the number of jobseekers to be accompanied; Gérard Cherpion highlighted this in his report last year. Secondly, the financing of vocational training is put at risk by the reform: it suffers from a structural imbalance, highlighted by a report issued last February on the finances of the institution France compétences. To this imbalance is now added a decrease in revenues, based on the wage bill. Of course, the recovery plan foresees an exceptional allocation of 750 million euros, but on the condition that France competences have a balanced 2022 budget adopted by its board of directors. This is an impossible task, for two reasons: the compulsory payment of the personal training account commitments, on the one hand, and the difficulties that would arise from the lower cost of the apprenticeship contract for training bodies, on the other. France skills will not be able to fulfil its mission without borrowing and further strengthening its teams. Thirdly, you have introduced hiring bonus schemes for a large number of people: apprentices, young people, disabled workers. These bonuses facilitate immediate hiring but, as these arrangements end in March 2021, one can legitimately question the re-entry of 2021: these same audiences may then encounter difficulties in finding an employer. Fourthly, you are proposing to increase the financial assistance provided for free jobs to recruit an asset resident in a priority area of city policy. However, this arrangement did not meet with its public, in particular due to its lack of readability for local employers. An increase in the premium will not be sufficient to make it more incentiveful, whereas priority should be given to the question of the condition of access to employment of beneficiaries. Why not extend access to this system to less dense areas where unemployment was above the national average before the crisis, such as the Lunéville basin or the Saint-Dié basin, dear to our colleague Gérard Cherpion? Fifthly, the Government has announced an increase in the remuneration of trainees in vocational training. The cost of this measure, which is significant, is estimated at EUR 191 million for the "Relaunch Plan" mission. However, it will lead to an increase in compensation expenditures for both the regions and for Pôle Emploi, the compensation of which is not included in the finance bill. It is a problem not only of financing but also of method. More generally, the recovery plan leaves the regions out. However, they would be prepared to play a leading role in the vocational training of job-seekers, in line with a commitment by the Government that is still not being implemented. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, what action does the Government intend to take on the bill ratifying various ordinances provided for in the Act of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future and introducing various social measures? This question remained unanswered when the text was examined in committee. While the increase in the appropriations for the "Work and Employment" mission is to be welcomed because they are abounded by the recovery plan, there are serious difficulties if the structural issues of financing vocational training are not quickly resolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u223	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u224	I will begin by stressing the budgetary support for the "Work and Employment" mission, whose appropriations will increase by almost 3% in 2021 compared with the initial finance law for 2020. This mission can count on a budget of almost 13.7 billion euros. Several appropriations from the recovery plan also concern this mission and for reasons of legibility of public action, I regret that the cohabitation of two separate budgets prevents us from having an overall view of the appropriations available for the consolidation and access to employment, the adaptation of our economy and our enterprises or the improvement of the value of work. This lack of complementarity between the two budgets is regrettable. However, I note the efforts made to finance the work of persons with disabilities and their support, as well as the employment of young people and their support through the appropriations of programme 102. The situation is such that full employment has become an inaccessible objective, to the point of making a lasting lapse of one of the republican promises of employment for all. The worrying unemployment figures published on 28 October by Pôle Emploi illustrate this social flaw: in the third quarter of 2020, 5.7 million people are looking for employment in metropolitan France. The second wave of the covid-19 epidemic and the related health measures will have an impact on employment, which we must now anticipate in order to avoid the worst effects. Madam Minister, France cannot resign itself to mass unemployment and long-term unemployment, and I regret that the 2021 budget is not geared to this objective. We must now move forward to address this social divide, which is growing from week to week and undermines national cohesion. With regard to the "long-term zero-unemployed territories" scheme, I am pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has succeeded in reaching a consensus to allow its extension and extension. Building on the example of this access to work tool, public authorities should take initiatives to create home-based and personal support jobs, such as living aids and home helpers. As a result of an ageing population, longer life expectancy or the choice of home care, needs are increasing. In this sector of activity, new work solutions are to be invented from dedicated budgetary means. In this House, we often hear about the world after. This new model of life would incorporate a form of economic sovereignty and would be based on a regained independence of the country. This is a good direction, but it needs to be prepared. This involves renewing and developing manufacturing industries and dedicated jobs. However, I see that there is no new idea of this. The reindustrialization of France is essential but there is no specific element in this budgetary mission to support the economic transformation of our industrial fabric and to develop industrial employment. Again in this light of the world after, France must resolutely choose the jobs linked to the transitions, in particular by stimulating the social and solidarity economy that generates new work situations and new jobs. Minister, in this budget mission, where are the funds to encourage these jobs? On the other hand, I regret that the employment houses are not accompanied by this finance bill. They are, however, federating and accelerating the action of public and private partners in favour of the local economy as close as possible to the potential of the employment areas. He is a real player in employment and is thus set aside by the Government. I note, however, that an amendment has allowed us to move forward, but I believe it was up to the Government to take the initiative. You have understood, Madam Minister, that in the face of the challenge of unemployment, we need funds, of course, but also new ideas. During your hearing before the Committee on Social Affairs, you said that you wanted to encourage new measures to promote occupational integration. You're right. There are experiments to be developed in this direction within the territories, taking into account the different areas of life and the living forces of our country. France has about 1.3 million associations and this network of associations can be a major player in the integration of the beneficiaries of the RSA – active solidarity income – and of the long-term unemployed. We could put in place mechanisms for integration through associative life that go beyond what already exists. Finally, improving the follow-up of jobseekers is a requirement. The employment officers are competent and remarkable: they were able to respond present at the time of the health crisis by continuing their accompaniment work, but they are now deprived in the face of long-term unemployment and the resulting human situations. [[Deputy Special Rapporteur Thibault Bazin applauds]] Here, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, are the few comments I wanted to make on this draft budget for the "Work and Employment" mission, on which, as it stands, the Group of the Republicans will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u225	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u226	On behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Movement and Related Democrats, I would like first of all to welcome the State's commitment in 2020 to preserving employment and skills and its determination to support our businesses and businesses at all costs. In addition, it was pleased that the Government, as early as 2017, had taken the lead in simplifying social dialogue and putting initial and continuing training at the heart of the legislature's policy. Strong guidelines, combined with significant resources, could be given to ensure that competence becomes both the lever of business success and the best bulwark against exclusion. Reform of funding and learning modalities, transformation of the CECs with the obligation to train, recognition and support of integration through economic activity, renovated framework for free jobs, new dynamic impulsed in the professional trajectories of people with disabilities, new ways of using the personal training account, national and regional deployment of the credits of the plan of investment in skills: these are all the effective levers that we can use to enable our economy to recover from the necessary sanitary confinements that profoundly affect it. In order to cope with the severe deterioration of the labour market, the means of the Labour and Employment mission are increased this year to 14.14 billion in commitment authorisations and 13.38 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 2.98 % and 3.5% respectively, to which we must add the 13 billion of the recovery plan for the year 2020, almost doubling the resources allocated. The credits from the recovery plan will rightly abound mainly the measures linked to partial activity, which we must maintain as much as necessary in 2021, as well as the training of employees and job seekers. It should be noted that 3.5 billion will be dedicated specifically to support for employment and support for young people, for whom the rate of return to employment in 2020 has fallen more sharply – 2.2 points compared to 1.8 on average. Because they are more severely affected, we support the strengthening of all the actions carried out in their favour under the France Recovery Plan, whether they are support for professionalisation and apprenticeship contracts, training actions, support for the recruitment of people under 26 years of age, support schemes, the creation of dedicated courses or the abundance of 110,000 additional aided contracts. We also welcome the increase in the CEC coverage rate in priority neighbourhoods from 48% to 80%. This exceptional effort should encourage the recruitment of associations, which are more useful than ever for our social cohesion. However, in such a deteriorating context, the way in which unemployment benefits are paid should also be reviewed. The provisions that we had rightly adopted when economic activity was sustained need to be substantially revised, at least in a transitional way. Madam Minister, could you tell us about the discussions with the social partners on this point during the examination of the appropriations for this mission? In the context of a decline in revenue and an increase in unemployment, our main operators, France Skills and Employment Centre, as well as local missions, will also be supported to deal with revenue losses for some and the need to strengthen support for others. In this regard, we welcome the significant increase in the number of people employed at the Employment Centre. However, it will not be enough to set up the necessary accompaniments due to the massive increase in the number of jobseekers. What other tools do you intend to deploy, Minister, to meet these support and support needs? With regard to learning, we would like to point out that preserving the strong momentum initiated in 2019 has been a challenge. Thanks to the exceptional grant payments to employers, the learning entry objectives have been maintained. However, we must redouble our efforts to ensure that contracts are given priority to the holders of baccalaureate and infra-bac training. We must point out that this public has not benefited from the recruitment dynamics of exceptional grants: it represents less than 60% of the signatories to the contracts, whereas the target was 71%. How do you intend, Madam Minister, to encourage the refocusing or strengthening of recruitment in her favour? [[Special Rapporteur Marie-Christine Verdier Jouclas applauds]] Our group will closely monitor the deployment of funds for this mission. These seem to us to be up to the situation as we know it today. However, throughout the year, we will ensure that any change in the situation which is less favourable than expected results in adjustments in resources. For the time being, and as a matter of responsibility, our group approves the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u227	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u228	For several months, the deputies of the Socialist and related groups have supported the measures taken by the Government in favour of employment and partial activity. You will therefore not be surprised if I tell you that we also support the measures included in this mission, including those within the framework of the "Relaunch Plan" mission with EUR 10.5 billion in payment appropriations, dedicated to job security, employment aid and the development of vocational training. We regret, however, the lack of visibility of all the policies carried out, which are broken down between several budgetary missions. What we all have to pay particular attention to is that we do not have to pay for numbers as the majority sometimes pay for words. This is true for all periods, and this is true a fortiori for this period of crisis: it is important to ensure the effectiveness of the announcements made in the law, even when it comes to a law of finance. It is not just a question of voting for payment appropriations: it is a necessary but not a sufficient condition. It must be verified that the public policies they finance are well implemented. For the past three years, we have seen, more often than in our turn, that what was being achieved was not up to what was being announced. I think, for example, of the career paths competence: the credits, carried out by an enthusiastic speech by the majority and the Government, have often been voted on, but their execution has left something to be desired. You had announced 100,000 PEC contracts but, in reality, you have instead destroyed 200,000 assisted jobs. We believe that it would have been more effective to spend 70 million euros on creating 10,000 "boost jobs" as proposed by the voluntary movement. This would involve moving them towards activities such as health, epidemic prevention, intergenerational solidarity, popular education, sustainable agriculture and other areas with high social and environmental impact. The State would intervene through a three-year degressive seeding fund, based on 75% of a gross SMIC loaded in 2021, 50% in 2022 and 25% in 2023. Jobs would be targeted primarily towards non-profit or limited lucrativity enterprises as well as to registered commercial enterprises of social utility. These jobs would, in our view, have an immediate effect on the labour market for young people who find themselves in great difficulty. These state investments would be in exchange for a commitment to localizing employment and measuring the social and ecological impact of the activities thus developed. We could also mention the lack of effectiveness with regard to free jobs. Our draftsman tells us that the target of 21,500 creations in 2020 will not be achieved. We therefore doubt the validity of the announcements made under the stimulus plan, according to which they will be substantially increased. For example, an increase in postal aid in intermediary associations from EUR 1462 to EUR 4000 would seem to us to be a much more effective investment. Indeed, while these structures are by far the least assisted – they receive 3% of the IAE budget – they account for more than 45% of the staff in the IAE sector and show one of the best positive exit rates in employment, according to the Court of Auditors' report of 2019. They must – and this has value – at a very high level of accompaniment, which inevitably increases the cost of each position. A highly democratic question now arises, namely the implementation, effectiveness and effectiveness of measures. How can we ensure the proper deployment of many programmes which have their funds increased, while those of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration are falling? The destruction of jobs continues in this ministry: with 795 full-time equivalents – FTEs – destroyed in 2021, next year will be the worst since the beginning of the quinquennium. In total, job deletions since 2017 will reach 1447 FTEs, a decrease of 18%. Let us also mention Pôle Emploi, whose subsidy for public service charges will decrease by €86 million in 2021, a decrease of €357.5 million since 2017, which is not offset by the exceptional allocation of €250 million. Thus, difficulties will undoubtedly arise in the years to come. Moreover, as we agreed, together, to extend to at least sixty territories the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories" which has been going on for five years, how can we understand that the participation of the State in this initiative declines in 2021, to 22.61 million euros? [[Applause on the SOC benches]] We are in a complicated economic situation. I hope that in the debate that is opening, Madam Minister, you will have an attentive ear to the proposals made on the various benches of oppositions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u229	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u230	The difficult year we are going through reminds us every day of the fundamental importance of individual and public health; The same applies, to a large extent, to work. Whether you are in a position of responsibility, telework or a profession deemed essential, whether you are unable to work or looking for a job – sometimes as a result of the health crisis – you can see very clearly the psychological and physical effects that work or absence of work can have. If many dream of a life where work would no longer be a necessity but a pleasure, it is because when one feels in its place, valued and recognized, work is a rare source of development. I am thinking in particular of the caregivers, who are facing a second epidemic of great violence after a first wave that has already had a heavy impact on their physical and mental health, to the point that some question the professional future they had imagined themselves. Working is also a contribution to a socially useful product, it is to become a society, while you feel excluded when you are away from employment. Unemployment reinforces the fractures, the emergence of a two-speed society and disunity that are unfavourable to us all, because they weaken our democracy. By crippling almost all of the world's economies, the covid-19 pandemic led to job destruction and layoffs. It carries with it a social anger whose magnitude may be unprecedented. Unemployment also weighs on our ability to reform the country and drive it towards a more environmentally sustainable system. In a context where inactivity creates so many concerns and difficulties, the great challenge facing States is to relegate to the background the ambitious choices necessary to ensure that we and our children have sustainable living conditions; You who have been responsible for the ecological and solidarity transition, Madam Minister, can only be sensitive to it. Resolute and ambitious action by the public authorities to promote employment is therefore more essential than ever. For this reason, the Action Together Group welcomes the increase in the appropriations for the "Work and Employment" mission. With an increase of 3.05 % in 2021, or an additional 434 million euros, this mission will reach 13.38 billion euros in payment appropriations. In addition, the Ministry of Labour's budget is strengthened to deal with the economic consequences of the health crisis, in particular to support young people: resources for the skills investment plan are thus increased, while the single aid to apprentice employers and integration through economic activity are supported. State-guaranteed loans amounting to €120 billion will support more than 500,000 companies, 90% of which will be SMEs and TPEs. In addition, EUR 30 billion of carry-overs and exemptions from social contributions, EUR 31 billion from partial activity and EUR 6 billion from the solidarity fund will be added. We welcome the increase in the means to facilitate access to economic autonomy for persons with disabilities, job seekers living in disadvantaged neighbourhoods, or the long-term unemployed through the extension of the "zero-unemployed territory" experiment. While the conditions for their integration into the labour market have been tightened for several years, the younger ones of us are paying a heavy price in the current situation. The health crisis and its economic consequences further increase uncertainty about their future. It was therefore necessary to increase the resources allocated to support them, in particular through local missions. The slider focuses on emancipation, since the stimulus plan devotes more than 15 billion to young people and vocational training, of which some 13 billion in 2021. In order to cope with the likely increase in the number of young jobseekers, the Government plans to mobilise €1.6 billion, of which €500 million in 2021, in order to increase the number of certification courses to 223,000 in occupations with employment prospects. A total of €4.2 billion is therefore mobilised to support youth employment. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mrs Nathalie Bassire and Michèle de Vaucouleurs and Mr Jean François Mbaye applaud]] In line with this choice, the choice of work, employment and integration of young people in particular, the Group of the European People's Party will vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u231	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u232	We are going through an unprecedented health and economic crisis. I will begin by commending the efforts of the Government: the "Work and Employment" mission is allocated a budget of 13.3 billion euros, and a similar budget is provided for the "Relaunch Plan" mission. To deal with the crisis, we must all mobilize. Similarly, we must mobilize all the actors in employment to combat unemployment: employment centre, local missions, Cap emploi, Association pour l'emploi des cadres – APEC – and job houses. I will focus on the latter: the finance bill does not provide for funds to subsidise their operation, whereas they are essential players in employment policy at territorial level, real local springboards for access to employment. The IDU and Independent Group will propose an amendment aimed at stabilising state funding for employment houses in the 2020 budget. As I said, we must mobilise and trust the accompanying structures in employment and integration. Located in the territories, they are most able to identify problems on the ground. We want them to have common territorial objectives, so that they combine their specific initiatives, which are linked to their own competences. We must encourage the various operators of employment policy to create common working habits and to pool employment actions, in order to make them more efficient and comprehensive, while placing local areas at the heart of the dynamic. My group would like to focus on job experiments: the crisis we are going through requires it. One of our amendments, unfortunately declared inadmissible, proposed an experiment which would have given active watch quarters the benefit of the free jobs scheme. These neighbourhoods have a slightly higher average per capita income than is required to be recognized as a priority area of the city. However, their inhabitants face difficulties in accessing employment. The experiment we proposed would have supported them. Our goal is not to leave any territory behind. We therefore welcome the strengthening of the appropriations for the "long-term unemployed zero-territories" experiment. We hope that over the next five years, the Territories with successful projects will be able to integrate this mechanism. This would be evidence of reactivity by the Government, alongside the living forces on the ground. In the future, we hope that the Government will show goodwill for other initiatives emanating from the Territories. On reading the draft budget, I note that the envelope for aid to business start-ups and entrepreneurs is declining. I regret that, in a context where we should support employment in every way. Let us not forget that some of the jobseekers will seek to create their own jobs. I would also like to say a word from the independents, most of whom are in a catastrophic situation. If they survived because of their cash flow during the first confinement, many of them will unfortunately be forced to shut down permanently, despite state aid. If they have no other choice, then they will have to be accompanied in a vocational retraining. In this respect, I would like to stress the need to provide short-term training in order to respond to the current labour market. It is our duty to be responsive. In addition, tomorrow, recruitment will largely take place in video conferencing or audio-conferencing. Therefore, we need to offer training in computer tools to job seekers, young and old, including seniors. Finally, our group will propose an amendment on the training of health professionals, based on the report on the first thousand days of the child. Let me conclude with a positive note: our group welcomes the increase in the appropriations for the work and employment mission and the deployment of the partial activity scheme. We also welcome the broad employment incentives for young people and persons with disabilities. We will therefore vote on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u233	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u234	The health crisis is predicting an unprecedented social crisis. In this context, we could have expected a combat budget and strong measures to minimize the damage. Unfortunately, the damage is already there: according to the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – INSEE – the unemployment rate could reach 10% by the end of the year. More than 600,000 jobs were destroyed in the first half of the year, and unfortunately this is only temporary, since the second wave and the policy of reconfining are there. The consequences will be heavy, and we have the impression that you are sailing on sight, day by day; There are no clear prospects, the strategy is unclear. It is not enough to announce billions of dollars over time for the situation to improve on its own! It's not com' time. The sense of abandonment is growing in the country, and no one can predict what it could lead to. It is not the "Work and Employment" mission that reassures us. Apart from the usual satisfaction caused by an increasing budget, presented as one of the winners of the finance bill, are the means really up to the challenges? My answer is no. Yet the fight against unemployment is at the forefront of French concerns, just in the face of the environment and health. Young people and low-skilled people are and will be the most affected. What future do you propose to them? What ray of sun do you bring them? Without work, there is no social integration. How do I find a place to stay? How can we start a family? How to offer education to his children? What do you do with the human dignity acquired by work? Are the millions of unemployed in the Hexagon and overseas condemned to watch the sun rise and go to bed, without doing anything? The world's jobless find it hard to return to paid employment. However, in the current context, your prospects are for spending cuts rather than job creation. You could have increased the number of assisted contracts much more, which open up prospects; We propose the creation of 300,000 assisted jobs paid to SMIC over five years in public services, personal support services and environmental services. Of course, you maintain 100000 CEP in this mission, plus 120000 CEP and CIE – employment initiative contracts – in the recovery plan, but what is the sustainability of these measures? And in the face of the financial difficulties of the communities, why don't you see the increase in the participation of the state in these schemes, by modulating it between 75% and 95% depending on the territories and the situation of the people concerned? I am thinking very naturally of the overseas. After that, you'll have a nice game to say that there are contracts but they're not used! The "Work and Employment" mission of this draft budget for 2021 also extends structural trends in the weakening of the public employment service. Again, the precarization of our public services is masked by your recovery plan. The program "Improving the Quality of Employment and Labour Relations" does not find thanks to you. You amputate its budget by more than 10% while its aim is precisely to improve social dialogue and to ensure health at work, for example. This decline is incomprehensible given the health context. Equally incomprehensible is the sharp 45 per cent decline in funding for the "Studies, statistics, evaluation and research" project, while the uncertain situation leads to an increased need for knowledge. The health crisis highlighted working conditions, both for present-day health protocols and for the organisation of telework. What follow-up means do you plan for psychosocial risks? What are your means of control in case of abuse? Minister, you are responsible for this "Work and Employment" mission, so you have a responsibility to do everything possible to provide opportunities for those who suffer from job shortages. Yes, some progress has been made thanks to the work of parliamentarians – I am thinking in particular of the zero-long-term unemployed territories, even if you could have gone much further on this scheme. But unemployed people no longer want words, but strong actions to finally get out of the mess; They are tired of hearing billions of euros being announced here, billions of euros being announced there, when their situation remains unchanged. At La Réunion, we have a proverb that says: "By going in the water, calabasse is farting there. Our proposals and amendments aim to avoid this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u235	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u236	We believe that this 2021 budget will not be able to respond to the economic and social crisis of extreme violence in our country. Actually, he's not up to it and he's gone. It is out of date because it does not take into account the consequences of the reconstitution, nor the fact that the INSEE estimate, which provided for the destruction of 730,000 employees in 2020 after the first confinement, will inevitably have to be revised upwards. This budget is not up to the table. After several years of massive cuts in funding for the "Work and Employment" mission, it foresees only a modest increase in funding of EUR 600 million, supplemented by non-mission funding under the recovery plan, amounting to EUR 10.5 billion. When we look closely at it, the base budget, which is set at 13.4 billion euros in 2021, remains well below the level of 2018, which was 15.4 billion euros. So this is a mini-trapping. More serious: despite these few new means, how can we not denounce the continuation of the reform of unemployment insurance, which plans to make several billion savings on the backs of the jobless? How can you understand that you are keeping a reform so hard for the jobless that the social context has forced you to postpone it this summer? A single decision is necessary: the final annulment of this reform, as all trade union organisations demand. And since you often call on us to adapt to new constraints, we invite you in return to take into account this new economic and social insecurity. That is why we need a progressive reform of unemployment insurance, in order to improve the support and compensation of jobless people while at the same time allocating sustainable resources to its financing. This is the reform that is urgently needed, under the aegis of the social partners! But that is not the choice you make in this budget. The State is continuing its disengagement in the financing of Pôle Emploi, with a reduction in subsidies of 130 million euros at the same time as the operator's resources from a fraction of the unemployment contributions collapse by 500 million euros due to the economic shock suffered by the same unemployment insurance. While Pôle Emploi will benefit from an exceptional €250 million envelope under the Recovery Plan in response to the exponential increase in job seekers, it is far from offsetting the combined €300 million decrease in its operating grants since 2018. On the side of support for workers and job-seekers, we continue to deplore the drastic reduction in assisted jobs decided in 2018, with dramatic consequences for both beneficiaries and associations. The 100 000 contracts budgeted for the so-called "skills employment path" are far from returning to the previous level of the 300,000 contracts. Of course, we welcome the increase in funding for other accompanying measures – this is the case for those for the integration of young people, with stronger support for the youth guarantee scheme, and for integration through economic activity, whose appropriations are increasing by €128 million; Similarly, free jobs in the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy are increasing by €27 million. But these increases, however satisfactory they may be, will never compensate for the division by three, since the beginning of the quinquennium, of the aided contracts. Finally, we deeply regret the declines in the means of operation of the labour administration. This amputation results, as in the previous three years, in the abolition of 210 posts in the Ministry and the DIRECCTE – the regional branches of business, competition, consumption, labour and employment – that is, 944 posts in four years. Year after year, these cuts in staff weaken the tasks carried out by the Ministry of Labour and deconcentrated services, in particular the labour inspectorate, whose role is essential to ensure respect for employees' rights. In summary, our assessment is, as in previous years, negative on the whole of this mission. Against the background of the reform of unemployment insurance, which provides for several billion euros of savings on the back of the unemployed in 2021, this budget only partially recovers three years of austerity in terms of labour and employment policy. That is why we will vote against these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u237	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u238	Today I am replacing my colleague Didier Baichère, who cannot be present among us – we have a thought for him. The budget you are proposing is offensive and protective. It is at the height of the health, economic and social crisis that we are going through. The "Work and Employment" mission is part of this exceptional context. In the face of the health crisis, we want France to stand up, socially and economically. This mission progresses significantly, by 400 million euros, reaching 13.38 billion euros. The actors in the public employment service, whose prerogatives are strengthened to deal with the crisis, are essential elements in the implementation of this mission. The main increases relate to the plan for investment in skills, support for learning and improvement of integration schemes through economic activity. Since 2018, we have been working to consolidate our social model around a triptych "employment, training, accompaniment of the most fragile". Today, this budget combines two dimensions: to ensure the development of the skills of our youth and employees, whose occupational transitions are accelerating as a result of the crisis; to preserve employment. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have been committed to supporting young people towards employment. We have done so, first of all, with the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future and the creation of France's skills, which will have to be strengthened on the occasion of this budget, but also with the strategy of prevention and the fight against poverty, the deployment of which is continuing. Let's talk about the "Youth, a Solution" plan. It provides for both the strengthening of the existing and the creation of new tools adapted to the crisis. The territories were invited to take action, under the leadership of the regional prefects responsible for setting up local governances involving communities, public employment services, actors and social partners. Here are some measures: the increase in the CAPEA allowance – a contractualised accompanying route adapted to employment and autonomy –, the 2000 additional places in second chance schools, the 35,000 additional courses for integration by economic activity in favour of young people, the 110,000 additional assisted contracts in the market sector, the 100,000 job skills courses, the doubling of the intensive support for young people in Pôle emploi, or the support for apprenticeship. We welcome the increase in appropriations for the public employment service, through the increase in the number of employees in the Employment Centre, as well as the increase in appropriations for the local missions in order to accompany the 80000 entries in the PACEA and the 50000 additional entries in the youth guarantee. Beyond the vote on the appropriations for this mission, ladies and gentlemen, we must make known all the tools of this young plan. We also want to value the quality of social dialogue in our country. Renovated thanks to the work orders, it has enabled major advances: I am thinking of the place of the social and economic committees – CSE – in the analysis of the financing received by the companies in the framework of the recovery plan, or the future "collective transition" mechanism presented last week to strengthen the professional conversions. The young people's plan, the long-term partial activity or the conversion of the employees of the companies suffering a lasting reduction of their activity to the sectors that recruit: these are measures to be developed in the social dialogue. As such, 9000 agreements have been signed on the issues of taking health measures into account in companies, and 3600 agreements are in force today on the long-term partial activity. The DIRECCTE will ensure its continuity and we will monitor its application. We can also count, of course, on the recovery plan to support our employment policy. It spends almost EUR 12 billion on social cohesion and employment: this is an unprecedented effort. In addition, €2.4 billion will be spent on financing support for the employment of people furthest from the labour market; This represents an increase of 9.4%, excluding the "Relaunch Plan" mission. These include the increase in the means of integration through economic activity, the financing for the further experimentation of the zero-long-term unemployed territories, the increase in the budget devoted to the integration into employment of persons with disabilities, and the strengthening of our action in favour of the inhabitants of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy within the framework of the free employment scheme. Of course, the health crisis has seriously weakened the French economy, calling on the state to financially support companies in difficulty. However, in order not to aggravate the social crisis, it is urgent that enterprises accelerate their social engagement in their territory, through apprenticeships and internships, the integration by economic activity of persons with disabilities and persons far from employment, and the inclusion of persons who are ready for employment or close to employment whose skills are inadequate with current recruitment needs or who are subject to discrimination. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Of course, we will vote in favour of the appropriations for the "Work and Employment" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u239	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u240	If the second confinement in which we entered is justified from a health point of view, we know that it will accelerate and amplify the wave of business failures and social plans in the coming weeks and months. After the fear of the epidemic, the main concerns of our citizens concern employment and work. Some indicators show that these fears are well-founded. After an artificial rebound in the economy, the outlook for the unemployment rate is bleak at the end of the year. Another indicator is the 10 per cent increase in AHR expenditures. Unédic provides compensation at the end of 2020 for an additional 420,000 job seekers compared to the end of 2019, as a result of the destruction of 670,000 employees. It is therefore little to say that support for employment must be a priority, with particular attention to the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable and the young. However, this crisis came at a time when the Government had carried out a reform of unemployment insurance without the agreement of the social partners. Our group was opposed to this reform in calm weather; It is all the more so in the midst of a storm. The first suspension of the reform was welcome, but it would have had to be total, provide for the renewal of the rights and also concern those who lost their jobs between November 2019 and August 2020. A second postponement was decided, until 1 April 2021: i.e. But like the health crisis, the economic crisis will last. Madam Minister, why not give up this reform once and for all? We have no doubt about your objective – to reduce, in particular, the share of short contracts – but we do not share your method, much less given the context. This reform will have adverse consequences for workers engaged in discontinuous activities such as intermediaries or seasonal workers; But today they are the most penalized by the crisis. That is why we have asked that the rights to unemployment benefits for seasonal workers who have not worked sufficiently or who have not been able to sign an employment contract be extended. However, it will be necessary to go further. The issues of employment and work go beyond the scope of this mission. I come back to the Mission's appropriations, precisely: we welcome their increase of more than 434 million euros, bringing their total to more than 13 billion. As last year, the main increase relates to the Skills Investment Plan. We will find you in the support for training and in the recovery plan for learning. Despite these efforts, however, we must note that the health crisis has affected these devices. Example: the physical reception of trainees in training organizations and apprenticeship training centres – CFA – was suspended during the first confinement. As the second confinement begins, we are therefore concerned about the offers made to trainees and trainees, as well as their reception conditions. Above all, there is still uncertainty about the reform of vocational training initiated by your predecessor, the minister. While the effects are positive in terms of employment and growth, the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – and the Financial Inspectorate – IGF – estimate, in their report published in September, that €4.9 billion would be missing for the period 2020-2023. Funding must be found to fill these gaps in order to ensure the sustainability of this reform. However, your draft budget only provides France with a grant of 750 million euros; It's clearly not enough. Beyond training, the Libertés et Territoires Group is divided on the future of experimenting with the long-term unemployed zero-territories, not for its interest but because it is proposed to extend it to at least 60 territories. This is certainly a step forward, but in this case the participation of the State planned for 2021 is not sufficient. It will amount to EUR 14800 per job compared to EUR 16200 in 2020, which will naturally increase the contribution of the departments, whose financing capacity is already weakened. Finally, our group is concerned about the reduction of approximately 500 FTEs in the workforce of the ministry and operators, which affects in particular Pôle Emploi despite the increase in its workforce in the recovery plan. We fear that this increase will only be temporary, while the long-term crisis in the future invites us to offer lasting and strengthened accompaniments. In view of all these uncertainties, the Freedom and Territory Group will refrain from voting on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u241	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u242	Let me first express to the French and French the Government's solidarity in this second phase of containment. The Ministry of Labour has a fundamental role to play in our collective capacity to preserve jobs and support citizens in this new stage. In this regard, I welcome the commitment of the Department's officers and operators, who are very involved. In sectors in difficulty or affected by administrative closures, we amplify the exceptional measures to support jobs and businesses. The amending finance bill presented yesterday in the Council of Ministers opens up 20 billion euros of additional appropriations for 2020, more than 2 billion of which will be devoted to partial activity. The aim is to maintain very protective conditions for companies and for employees whose activities are partially or totally interrupted by confinement. This new context makes the budget contained in the 2021 Finance Bill all the more necessary. It is an ambitious budget that mobilizes unprecedented resources for both preserving jobs, giving everyone a place in the labour market and preparing for tomorrow's skills. The appropriations allocated to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration for 2021 consist of two components. On the one hand, the appropriations for the "Work and Employment" mission are the core budget of my ministry. Irrespective of the recovery plan, this budget increases by more than EUR 400 million, to EUR 13.2 billion by 2021, in line with the trajectories planned before the crisis with a view to intensifying the inclusion of all in employment. I repeat to Messrs. Bazin and Few that there is obviously no decline in the commitment to work and employment in 2021, because the figures you are quoting for 2018 are due to perimeter effects, as I explained to the Social Affairs Committee. In addition, we will submit to the vote of Parliament new measures during the examination of the fourth amending finance bill, as part of the strengthening of the national anti-poverty strategy – measures announced by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. Second, the exceptional funding of the new "Relaunch Plan" mission is in addition to the previous effort. It is 10 billion euros in payment appropriations that are allocated to my ministry, out of the 22 billion euros of credits from France Relance for 2021 – that is almost half of the stimulus credits. This stimulus budget will significantly strengthen the Ministry's core budget. This means that employment and integration policies are an essential pillar of the recovery plan. These two budgets complement each other in order to enhance the effectiveness of the ministry in its mission of integrating everyone into employment and to deploy the priorities of action that I will present to you successively. First of all, in the face of the crisis, we are providing a massive response, a real anti-licensing shield to safeguard and develop jobs. As part of the recovery, the effort is substantial: we are mobilising €7.6 billion, of which €2.2 billion is financed by Unédic, to take over the partial activity and training of employees during their unworked time. Part of these funds must also finance the retraining schemes presented at the social dialogue conference: these resources, Mr Viry, are available to train employees and to accompany their conversion; 500 million are used in particular in the framework of the collective transition scheme which we have drawn up with the social partners. In this regard, I fully agree with Mrs Cloarec - Le Nabour's point of view: the agreements on long-term partial activity demonstrate the dynamism of the social dialogue, which we need more than ever. I pay tribute to the social partners for their sense of responsibility in the crisis we are going through. On the other hand, our duty is to provide all young people, regardless of their situation, with employment integration solutions. Of the €6.7 billion allocated to the "Youth, a solution" plan, which falls under my ministry but also under the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry of Higher Education and Research, €5.7 billion relates to the Ministry of Labour. We are betting on hiring support to enable young people to enter the labour market. Since the summer, we have put in place exceptional bonuses to encourage the hiring of young people and the signing of alternance contracts. Secondly, all existing schemes for the support and inclusion of young people in employment are strengthened. Thanks to the funds from the recovery plan, we are opening an additional 300,000 places in support and inclusion for young people. I have taken note, Mrs Six, of the territories you mentioned – the so-called "active watch quarters" – but in general, all these arrangements are intended to be territorialised and we are ready to adapt them in connection with local authorities, associations and all partners on the ground. In particular, 50000 new places are foreseen under the Youth Guarantee, an increase of 50 %, and 80000 new places are foreseen under the contractualised accompanying route adapted to employment and autonomy for an amount of 22 million euros, in addition to the places already provided for under the Base Budget. In all, the goal is to accompany 400,000 young people in 2021. Finally, new assisted contracts, including 50,000 employment initiative contracts, are planned in 2021. I hear your proposals regarding "boost" jobs, Mr Vallaud, but I would add that the Ministry of Education provides for an additional 100,000 places in civic service in its budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u243	There is also the question of execution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u244	All the proposals deserve to be examined, however: that is the purpose of the consultation that we want to carry out with the anti-poverty associations as well as with the social partners. If necessary, we will complement the gaps in the review of the Finance Bill or the Amending Finance Bill. Finally, we strongly strengthen the budget of local missions by allocating an additional EUR 100 million, bringing their budget to EUR 472 million. We are strengthening all the tailor-made integration schemes that are aimed at the most vulnerable and farthest from employment. In 2021, we put in place 60000 new job skills courses, which are in addition to the 20,000 additional courses already provided for in the core budget. Following the Prime Minister's announcements, we will propose that you increase their budget by 120 million euros in the amending finance bill. The aim is to strengthen the system for priority neighbourhoods in the city and rural revitalization areas by increasing the coverage rate to 80 per cent and doubling the target in number of places, with an additional 12,000 places. In total, we are increasing the appropriations allocated to integration schemes through economic activity by more than €204 million, including €62 million from the recovery plan. These appropriations will in particular make it possible to prioritize 35,000 places in the integration through economic activity for the benefit of young people and the creation of 25,000 places in the creation of enterprises. In addition, in line with the Prime Minister's recent announcements, we will propose to Parliament that an additional 30,000 seats be opened and that the Mission's appropriations be increased by EUR 150 million when the fourth draft amending finance law is considered. We are also increasing the budget allocated to enterprises adapted for people with disabilities by €23 million, by promoting gateways to common-law enterprises. We allocate additional EUR 93 million in commitment authorisations for 2021 to the free jobs, which corresponds to more than 33,000 new entries. I reassure everyone: this year, we will achieve the goal of 21,500 free jobs. We have an additional budget, compared to the implementation of 2020, for experimenting with the long-term unemployed zero-territories in order to finance the second stage. In this regard, I would like to thank the parliamentarians of all the groups that have been involved in the drafting of the bill on this subject, the CMP of which has been concluded. Mobility issues are important for integration. Half of those in employment refused work or training because they were unable to attend. The Government would therefore put to the vote a new measure to facilitate the mobility of unemployed persons. Finally, the public service of integration and employment is expected to be deployed in 30 territories in 2021 and then in 35 additional territories in 2022. We will put to Parliament's vote the proposal to spend EUR 30 million in 2021 under the fourth PLFR. I would like to point out to Mrs de Vaucouleurs that, in general, we are concerned about the situation of all people in difficulty as a result of the crisis. In particular, we have shifted the reform of unemployment insurance by another three months. As part of our consultations, we will pay particular attention to the unemployed who come to the end of their rights during the period of confinement, but also – I know that this is a matter of concern to many Members – to the precarious employees who previously had short contracts and periods of unemployment. This is a comprehensive response that must be given to these job seekers in difficulty in the current period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u246	Within the framework of the core budget, the competence investment plan benefits from a new commitment of €3.3 million in 2021. As part of the recovery, we are investing more than 1.7 billion euros, of which 1 billion from 2021 onwards, in training in the professions in charge or in tension, knowing that 500 million euros will be spent by 2021 to open up new training courses for young people in the professions of the future. We are also committing nearly 500 million to fund a comprehensive digitalisation plan for the provision of continuing training, which will, in particular, help to ensure better continuity in periods such as the one we are going through. Finally, Budget 2021 provides strong guarantees of implementation and efficiency. First of all, the conditions for implementation will be flexible: it will be possible to redeploy the appropriations according to the level of progress of the programmes by means of a grid-based steering of the territories. As you know, the ministry is contributing to the effort to control public finances. However, in view of the increased burden of the crisis, I have ensured that recruitment into CSDs is possible in the department's deconcentrated departments and at the employment centre. Beyond that, I will ensure that the sectors benefiting from France Relance's funds are committed to employment, in particular by inserting clauses in favour of employment and inclusion in public procurement. Already, there are signs of mobilization coming to us from the ground. In August and September, we registered nearly 700000 hires of young people under 26 years of age recruited in CSDs of more than three months or in CDI, an increase of 1.3% over 2019. Young people's recruitment premiums are rising; The first figures show that the momentum is on. It is up to us to collectively support this upward trend. The prospects for learning are positive, even though formal demands for a learning bonus are only just beginning. The latest figures show a very positive dynamic of contract signatures, with 314000 contracts signed mid-October, which should allow us to reach the historical level of 2019. I'd like to reassure you, Mr. Pancher, the CFAs remain open during confinement. Similarly, vocational training bodies must continue to provide training, preferably in digital form but if necessary in face-to-face form. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has made this budget more necessary than ever. In the face of the challenges before us, it is essential to be collectively involved in increasing the means of accompaniment, training and inclusion of all in employment. We need to give our fellow citizens a new perspective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u247	We come to group questions. I remind you that questions, such as answers, should not last longer than two minutes. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u248	Amazon is stinging: I'm not saying it, it's the Minister of Culture. And to give us this advice: it is up to us not to spoil them and not to buy books on digital platforms. The Prime Minister in turn invites French and French people to delay or delay their purchases this month rather than order products from a major foreign online site. The minister of the economy is doing it, which advises against ordering on Amazon, text! It's no longer a government, it's a team of ray leaders! What to choose? has settled in Matignon! Your role is not to advise clients: it is to set out rules and enforce them. For small, small citizens or small traders, you never forget to set out rules and enforce them: prohibitions and obligations, curfews and confinements. But for the big ones, the Amazon and other digital companies, the robbers of the GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – who cheat with the Cayman Islands and Luxembourg, who don't even pay VAT, you just make reels. In fact, you pull them the red carpet, and even put them in the chair and adjust the cushion under their buttocks. CEO Jeff Bezos is welcomed as a star at the Élysée to discuss with President Macron climate, sustainable development and nature conservation – true! Better, the same Macron inaugurates in VRP the Amazon warehouse in Boves and "thanks Amazon for its trust". Amazon! Amazon, which steals billions from us, to the detriment of our hospitals and schools, Amazon is thanked for its trust! You who in recent months have allowed the flowering of giant Open Sky shopping centers in Sophia-Antipolis, Rennes, Pleasure, Saint Genis-Pouilly, etc., you come today to weep about the misfortunes of the small business! Why is Amazon messing with himself, otherwise you're letting him go? You're his accomplices! It is not I who say it, but the macroist Mounir Mahjoubi, in his report entitled "Amazon, Towards Infinity and Towards Pôle-emploi". The former Secretary of State for Digital Affairs concludes his survey with this statistic: for every job created by Amazon in France, 2.2 are potentially lost in our local businesses. It estimates future losses to 26,000 jobs. For employment, for the environment, for our finances, for trade, when will the state, so strong with the weak, stand in front of the digital giants?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u249	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u250	You could also have taken an interest in the mechanisms that preserve the employment of hundreds of thousands or even millions of French. I am thinking of the partial-activity schemes, which have accompanied almost 9 million French people to the height of the crisis, or of those which encourage the recruitment of young people, the development of integration through economic activity, the plan for investment in skills, which contributes to the development of the skills of employees. But obviously you're not interested in these subjects. I thank you, however, for giving me the opportunity to make it clear that if we had to close down small businesses, we absolutely wanted to allow them to maintain an activity, thanks to a more flexible arrangement than that in force during the first confinement. In particular, it allows products ordered remotely, by telephone, by e-mail or online to be removed from shops. I confirm that in the current period we want to develop such solutions and pass this message on to all French people: instead of buying on major international platforms, go to the sites set up by your local traders. Many elected officials also accompany local businesses – I am thinking of the mayor of Dourdan, the mayor of Bastia. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group as well as on some benches of the Dem group]] So there are also interesting solutions to support our small traders in the crisis we are going through.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u251	Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u252	The "Work and Employment" mission is particularly important this year in view of the economic difficulties we face. We have, among other things, a major tool to help those who are furthest from employment: integration through economic activity. The ambition pact for IAE expresses Emmanuel Macron's willingness to increase the number of integration contracts to 240,000 in 2022, which is 100,000 more than in 2018. Today we can see that in three years the number of CDDs for integration – CDDI – is growing unquestionably, with 21,000 additional integration contracts. But is that enough? To achieve the five-year target of 100,000 additional jobs, we would need about 30,000 additional assisted posts by 2022. This is a very important leap forward that needs to be prepared right now. Several advances should help us: the new structure of self-employment integration enterprises – EITI –, the deployment of new schemes such as inclusion professionalisation contracts or senior CDIs, plus this year an aid of 1000 euros to accompany 10000 entrepreneurs. However, I am concerned about the relevance of this last measure, which, to my knowledge, has not been evaluated and which cannot be treated as job placements in the same way as employment contracts. For my part, it seems to me necessary to encourage new promoters of IAE's structure projects, by strengthening their attractiveness through better involvement of local economic actors and financers, like what we are doing for the experiment "long-term zero-unemployed territories". What adjustments do you intend to propose, Madam Minister, to help IAE project promoters more, so that we collectively will be at the meeting set by the President of the Republic of 100,000 additional integration contracts in 2022?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u253	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u254	I thank you, Mr President, for stressing the importance of integration through economic activity in the period we are going through. As you know, the objective set by the President of the Republic is to increase the number of employees on IAE routes from 140000 to 240000 by 2022. To do this, we are mobilising substantial resources since the draft finance law increases the IAE's appropriations by 204 million euros, to which the fourth amending finance bill will add 150 million euros. In addition, we wanted to diversify the forms of activity through the creation of the senior CDI in the context of the proposal for a law on long-term zero-unemployed territories. We also want to develop alternation in integration by helping to recruit people into professionalisation contracts in the integration structures through economic activity. We carry out numerous experiments, such as the IAE in prison, which aims to ensure the professional integration of former prisoners. We are also developing new forms of employment through self-employment enterprises and 25,000 support for the creation of enterprises for IAE publics. You are right, we must also support the development of these IAE structures. This is the whole purpose of the substantial strengthening of the inclusion development fund. Funding for this fund has been substantially increased, both to support IAE structures and to enable them to develop new projects. I am convinced that this dynamic will have to continue in 2021. Finally, it is also very important that these integration structures through economic activity be opened up to markets. This is the whole meaning of the mission entrusted to Thibaut Guilluy, High Commissioner for Employment and Enterprise Engagement, to develop inclusive procurement. [[Ms Special Rapporteur and Mr Dominique Da Silva applaud]] That is how we can all succeed together in the development expected of integration through economic activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u255	I call the appropriations of the "Work and Employment" mission, entered in statement B. I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 2228.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u256	The aim of this amendment is to increase the State's allocation to social security by €533.57 million in 2021 to compensate for the cost of the aid scheme for business start-ups or take-overs, the ACRE scheme, in order to increase the amount of this allocation to its 2020 level and thus finance the freeze on the reform of the ACRE which entered into force on 1 January this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u257	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u258	I would not like to begin the examination of the appropriations for this mission by reopening the debate on the ACRE. The realignment of the scheme was decided last year, because, as you know, of the risk of financial slipping and of the effects of a boon. I suggest we stay here. The opinion will therefore be unfavourable, on a personal basis, since the amendment has not been considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u260	This will be the same opinion, and first of all for a reason of form, this measure falling within the regulatory level. On the other hand, it is important that the aid remains limited in time, so as to provide equal support for all self-employed status without distorting competition in favour of a form of self-employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u261	I call Mr Thibault Bazin, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u262	This amendment seems very interesting to me: it is essential to support these new activities, which have a low life expectancy, over the course of the first year. The current year is complicated for those who just started their business, and who had to cash the first, then the second epidemic wave. We have already invested in their project: it is all the more important to give them their chance, to let them try all for everything so that their creation succeeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u263	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 2224.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u264	The aim of this amendment is to extend the duration of the youth guarantee to two years. I would like to point out that the youth guarantee is a specific feature of the contractualised path of accompaniment towards employment and autonomy, which is the basis for the support of young people by local missions. Today, the contract is concluded for a period of one year, which can be extended by a maximum of six months. We believe it is important to take account of the lasting effects of the crisis on the labour market, particularly on youth employment. The two-year period we are proposing seems to correspond to the reality of the weeks and months ahead. We estimate the cost of this amendment to be €621.27 million. In view of the effectiveness in normal times of this system, which the majority and the Government support, such an investment seems to us to be useful for young people who are at risk of being the sacrificed generation of this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u265	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u266	I do not agree at all with you: I think that such a measure would completely distort the youth guarantee, a subject that I know well because, as I said earlier, since I was elected, I am the sponsor of two young people each year on a local mission. The youth guarantee is a journey, a lock designed to restore confidence to these young people and to remobilize them around a project. It lasts twelve months, and possibly another six months. The aim is to provide young people with guidance at the end of this period: apprenticeship, alternance, training, return to school or even a job. Therefore, 18 months seem to me largely sufficient: to go beyond, that would mean that these journeys are confused with something else. The amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but on a personal basis, I am really against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u267	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u268	I fully agree with the statement made by the Special Rapporteur. It is now possible to extend the youth guarantee scheme by six months. However, it does not provide skills training and does not provide skills. In the present period, therefore, I think it is important that we manage to offer young people as much as possible without seams, so that, at the end of the guarantee scheme for young people, they can, where appropriate, integrate pre-training, pre-learning or vocational training. In addition, we have already planned to upgrade the remuneration of trainees in vocational training, precisely in order to bring them into line with the same level of remuneration as young people's guarantees. In the same way, as part of the discussion of the finance bill, we will propose to provide compensation for young people for pre-learning or pre-training. It seems to me very important that we keep the aim of not sending young people to car parks, but on the contrary, of accompanying them to employment, through training and qualification. Let us continue to strengthen the mechanisms for training and equipping young people with skills to successfully support them in employment: by extending the duration of the youth guarantee to two years, this would not be the case. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u269	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u270	You've only made arguments of authority, you've shown nothing at all! You could have explained why the initial 12 months could be extended by six months; in view of your argument, as much decree as the device stops permanently after twelve months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u271	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u272	However, the situation is special and may require us to accompany some young people a little longer, because we already know that the return to employment or to training will be more difficult – we can already see an embolism in some training courses. Being able to accompany young people for longer in this arrangement, which I also know very well, is a possibility that is being discussed. In any case, you have proclaimed, but absolutely not shown that this extension would distort the device in any way. Yet the economic crisis is there, and the difficulties too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u273	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u274	For my part, I will not be content with proclamations: I have questioned the network of local missions, and it turns out that it is absolutely not in favour of your request. They already have flexibility to extend the scheme up to 18 months. This new extension would indeed distort the accompaniment. Everything that has already been introduced, like all the measures provided for in the youth plan, will provide integration counsellors with a range of solutions to accompany these young people. The stakes are the fluidity of the journey and the coordination work with the actors of integration: this is what will take young people to assisted contracts and IAE missions. The missions may be short initially, but they are all levels that will allow for better integration into the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u275	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u276	I would point out that what I propose is called a faculty: if it is not useful, it will be possible not to use it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u277	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 2229.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u278	This amendment of appropriations is intended to finance the creation of an exceptional social emergency measure, consisting of aid paid in 2021 to young CAPEA beneficiaries. It would amount to half of the amount of the CAPEA allowance or the guaranteed youth allowance which these young people otherwise receive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u280	I understand very well the legitimate concern that drives you, and we are actually making sure that the crisis does not leave anyone on the side of the road. But we are discussing the "Work and employment" mission, not the "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" mission: the budget for this mission is devoted to employment policies, with a view to improving the integration arrangements and all measures to find a job. The measure you propose is based on a logic of social assistance, and therefore depends on the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities". It has no purpose in the context of the work and employment mission, and I will therefore issue an unfavorable opinion in my personal capacity, because the committee has not considered this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u282	We find the same spirit as the previous amendment. I continue to favour the support of young people in training or apprenticeship schemes, pre-training or pre-learning, which enable them to acquire a qualification and to learn a trade. While young people can also be temporarily supported and accompanied through mechanisms such as the CAPEA or the Youth Guarantee, which we have just mentioned, it seems to me important that the objective given to the local missions is to accompany these young people towards qualifying paths which, in turn, will lead them to employment. By providing the youth plan with €6.7 billion, we give ourselves the maximum chance of being able to accompany all young people. As I have already said, at this point, there may be holes in the racket, I do not claim the opposite; But we will continue to carry out consultations in order to ensure that all young people are well taken care of within the framework of the schemes. However, the idea of moving into EAPAC should not be encouraged, nor should the extension of young guarantees be encouraged. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u283	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u284	It is necessary to bring everyone to training, and to accompany people to employment: I do not disagree. But there's going to be 1 million more unemployed...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u285	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u286	Oh, right? All right, that's good news! I imagine that we are not in recession either, and that the crisis is not getting worse. All right. However, for young people who already find it very difficult to find a job, it will be even more difficult than usual to enter the professional market. Many of them will find themselves in even greater precariousness, while the poverty among young people is already three times higher than that of people over 60 years of age. This will lead to situations in which a social response will also be needed. I can hear that the amendment is not tabled on the right mission: if you guarantee me that the amendment will be adopted during the examination of another mission, I will gladly resubmit it. But you do not want to see that there is both a social question and a question of employment: you will not eliminate the precariousness of young people only through employment. You haven't done it yet when there was growth... Earlier, you mentioned civic services as another measure to accommodate youth, but you did not meet the goals you had set yourself over the past three years, while everything was fine. The same is true of other types of assisted jobs. Therefore, there is a right to question what can be introduced to accompany young people socially. Of course, it is not a question of putting them in a precarious state: apart from your imagination, no one hopes to live on social allowances and minima for the rest of his life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u287	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u288	You're going to say I'm mad at you, Mr Vallaud, but neither is this a request from the network. The PACEA is above all a contract between the young person and the local mission. While during confinement, the PACEA envelope was actually used to pay, on an ad hoc basis, for other expenses, such as equipment that often responds to mobility problems, it is now increased by 60% – something that local missions had actually requested. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and IUD-I groups]] But local missions are not a social assistance window: they are structures to support young people towards social and vocational integration and autonomy, which have at their disposal various mechanisms to meet the needs of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u289	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u290	Mr Vallaud, I cannot let you say that we are not aware of the difficulty of the economic situation, or that we are not doing the utmost to accompany young people. As early as July, we presented the €6.7 billion "Youth, a solution" plan, which supports the hiring of young people. It will probably have allowed no less than 450,000 or 500,000 hires, but also 300,000 apprenticeship contracts, 100,000 additional civic services, 200,000 qualifying trainings and 300,000 additional employment contracts or pathways. We are well aware of the difficulty of the crisis we are going through, but I think we have given ourselves the means to accompany each young person, so that no one stays on the side of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u291	Well, I'm not sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u292	I call Mr Thomas Rudigoz to support Amendment No. 1847.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u293	This amendment, which I am defending on behalf of my colleague Sandrine Mörch, concerns production schools. For those colleagues who do not know them, I explain that this is a singular educational system, which has existed for more than a hundred years and was initially launched by social Catholicism, which is very present in certain regions, such as Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. The results of production schools are particularly impressive, since many of them reach success rates of almost 100 per cent, even though they often take in children with high school difficulties, or young people who, after dropping out of school, return to a new life of training, thanks to training centres whose specificity is to host theoretical training and practical training at the same site. For years, the state has not really taken an interest in these production schools and has not subsidized them. Last year, a number of Members, including myself, tabled an amendment to grant them a grant of EUR 4.75 million. Thanks to the support of Mrs Muriel Pénicaud, then Minister of Labour, and the Special Rapporteur here, it was adopted, allowing us to finally obtain aid for these schools. This year, having perhaps not read all the budget documents well, we thought that this aid would not be renewed. That is why our group has tabled an amendment to re-allocate the same amount of aid to production schools. The minister's office then told us that there would be a grant, with €2.88 million allocated. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Nevertheless, we would like to obtain the same level of subsidies as last year, especially since three new production schools were established in one year in the national territory. My colleague Sandrine Mörch's amendment is therefore intended to increase the planned aid by EUR 2 million to a total of EUR 4.88 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u295	I will be brief, because you have defended your amendment very well. As you know, I am very much in favour of this budget increase, which was already planned. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the minister, who has resumed the work that you and several of your colleagues have carried out on production schools. The committee has not considered this amendment, but I am very much in favour of it personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u296	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u297	Favourable, too. I fully support the model of production schools, which makes it possible to bring together in the same place the alternation between professional activity and theoretical education. As you said, these schools are very successful, as the number of young people in the 35 schools increased in 2020. We had planned to continue to support production schools, since 2.8 million euros were included in the original text. You are proposing to complete this budget by an additional EUR 2 million, and I am in favour of it. It will be important that, in the long term, these schools also mobilise the common law mechanisms to which they may have access, which will further boost the development of the model on which they are based, which is very interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u298	I call Mr Thibault Bazin, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u299	I am pleased with the position of the Minister on this amendment, which is intended to supplement the amount of EUR 2.8 million already provided for in the budget document. I too support this amendment, which goes in the right direction: in fact, by succeeding in inserting more than 1000 young people without qualifications, this model is a real success. But I wonder: why was the planned envelope not, from the start, EUR 4.88 million? Without prejudging the vote on national representation, I believe that this mechanism will be unanimous, and I would like the Minister to commit herself to the same amount of aid for next year, so that we do not have to table an amendment to complete the scheme again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u300	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u301	Thank you, Minister, for having welcomed Mrs Mörch's proposal. The ranks of the majority had already supported the system of production schools last year; We welcome the fact that it is gaining momentum. It would indeed be interesting to monitor its deployment in territories where it was still unknown.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u302	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, to support Amendment No. 2422.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u303	The network of local missions is one of the actors in the public employment service, let us not forget. It is a real territorialised employment and integration service for young people. It accompanies nearly 1.3 million young people each year towards employment and autonomy, with schemes such as CAPEA, the youth guarantee or, more recently, the obligation to train up to the age of 18. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups]] Strongly mobilized during the crisis linked to the covid-19, they were reinforced by the plan "Un jeune, une résolution". I would like to take this opportunity to greet the insertion advisers of the local missions: they do a huge job, and are at work every day, including at this very moment. I also thank all the new elected officials who have been involved in the new boards of local missions. I welcome the 27 per cent increase in funding for the operation of local missions. It's a big deal. Nevertheless, the government's ambition thus defended is difficult to translate in concrete terms at the level of each structure, whether it be the objectives or the means involved. Without going into the budgetary and administrative details of the local missions, I stress that because of their associative status, their cash flow is limited to three months. The first payment of the year is most often made in April, up to 50% of the appropriations allocated, and the second in June or even September. As a result, it is difficult for local missions to plan, recruit or invest in new premises, when they are asked to increase their support activities. The aim of the amendment is therefore to ask the Government to ensure that half of the funds allocated by the Labour, Employment and Recovery Plans are paid to local missions in January 2021. The Breton DIRECCTE, which I also welcome, has thus paid this year from January their credits to all the local missions in Brittany. More than a political approach, it is a measure of common sense. It will enable local missions to recruit and develop their premises, as well as to gain greater visibility as to what they can do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u304	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u305	I understand your arguments. I myself asked the general delegation to employment and vocational training – DGEFC – about this, after receiving alerts to this effect. She asked me to trace the anomalies, because that is how she considers the situations you are referring to: 60% of the overall envelope is paid in January, like 80% of the CAPEA envelope; Only credits related to performance are paid in the middle of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u306	No! That's not what's going on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u307	I know that you do not agree, I understand, and that is why I invite you to ask the President of the local missions to identify the problems and make them known to the FEB, who will examine the situations. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u308	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u309	Same opinion. In my turn, I pay tribute to the local missions, for their commitment, more than ever necessary. At this time, we wanted to maintain the entire public employment service – employment centre, Cap emploi and local missions. I assure you that we will be very careful to avoid the emergence of cash flow problems at the beginning of next year: local missions must have the resources to carry out their mission. The DGEFC is indeed very involved: do not hesitate, each one, to let us know any difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u310	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u311	Mrs Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u312	I trust you and I take it out. I ask the DGEPP to monitor the situation well: these practices are taking place in Brittany, there is no reason why this is not the case elsewhere. Thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u313	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2374.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u314	In the spring, we caught a first wave; There, we're in the second; The Scientific Council announces the third for the winter, and the fourth in February. Starting this summer, INSEE – the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies – planned the elimination of 800,000 jobs. With all these waves, it's a social tsunami that's going to happen to us. In exceptional times, exceptional measures. However, in this budget, we do not find the ruptures promised by Emmanuel Macron in the spring. We propose one: rather than watering companies with 10 billion by lowering production taxes, or with 3 or 4 billion dedicated to hiring young people, hoping that this money will run into the country and generate jobs, use, in the form of assisted contracts. The latter have been useful and can find it. According to DARES – the direction of the animation of research, studies and statistics – their effectiveness in integrating the labour market is close to that of training. In my view, aided contracts for young people would aim at a twofold objective: to reduce unemployment, by enabling young people to earn a living and give it meaning now, and, at the level of society, to imagine new jobs oriented towards the environment, care, ties – imagine what the future will be made of. Roosevelt in his time brought America out of the crisis with a policy of great work. It seems to me that today, on the contrary, a policy of small-scale work could be taken out of it, by creating new jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u315	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u316	Unfortunately, I'm afraid you're not the Roosevelts capable of getting us out of the crisis, but rather the Herbert Hoovers of laissez-faire.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u317	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u318	This is one of your amendments in the summary statement you do not mention Roosevelt, and yet you quote him in his defence... Another paradox is that in the summary presentation you denounce the qualitative insufficiency of the CECs, while asking us to increase the number of CECs. I don't know what to say. You say that exceptional time requires exceptional measures. Excuse me, but if the measures decided by the Government and defended by the majority are not exceptional, tell me what they are. Either you suffer from a bad vision, and you can take care of yourself, or you show bad faith. I cannot allow you to say that we are not taking any exceptional measures, up to the situation. As for the aided contracts, I would like to remind you that they were in the market sector, and most often caused a boon effect. Our goal is to focus on the person, but employers used these contracts and renewed them constantly, in contempt of the person. On a job path skills, the person concerned is well cared for, is supported and then obtains a permanent job. In my view, the means we put on the table to finance the skills employment pathways are largely sufficient. I therefore give an unfavorable opinion on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u319	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u320	Mr Ruffin, you probably didn't have time to look at the provisions of the three amending finance laws. They have made it possible to allocate EUR 30 billion of funds to support employment, through the use of partial activity. These measures will be extended in 2021: €7.6 billion are planned to protect jobs, with partial activity and long-term partial activity, as well as to strengthen the skills of employees through training. You may not have had time to see that 6.5 billion euros were spent on accompanying young people, so that none of them could be left on the roadside, despite the crisis we are experiencing. If these are not exceptional devices, I don't know how to qualify them. We want to protect jobs, strengthen skills, and support all our fellow citizens towards employment, with particular attention for young people: we do not want to place them in parking jobs, but to accompany them, along a successful path, towards jobs corresponding to their qualifications. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u321	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u322	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I maintain: these are not exceptional measures, commensurate with the seriousness of the situation. What are you doing? What is the heart of your recovery plan? A reduction of 10 billion euros a year in so-called production taxes for twelve years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u323	That's what makes it possible to employ people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u324	This is already what you did by transforming the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – into a reduction in contributions: it didn't work. This is also what you have done by abolishing the solidarity tax on wealth, and by introducing the flat tax. In this regard, there is a great deal of continuity between your measures. You say that the aided contracts were reserved for the merchant sector. That's not true. Non-market assisted contracts existed in communities and associations. And it's wrong to call them parking jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u325	Yes, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u326	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I had a young job. Maybe you'll tell me the result isn't great.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u327	We wouldn't dare!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u328	My young job has allowed me to have a continuous career and it has helped me get here – you may regret it, but the fact is that young jobs have contributed to the emergence of new jobs. To Amiens, for example, and I'll talk about it again, the Buscyclette association was in charge of repairing the bicycles. It has been developed through assisted jobs, in particular through youth employment. In addition to reductions in contributions for businesses, to support commercial employment, it would be useful to promote jobs in targeted sectors to structure future jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u329	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u330	I will reply to the Special Rapporteur, along the same lines as Mr Ruffin. Indeed, I believe that we do not agree at all on assisted jobs,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u331	No, that's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u332	... which you think would have been used only in the merchant sector, or in bad practice. In the associative sector in particular, in the sports and cultural fields, many young people found their way, because they had been in contact with people able to make them very familiar with a given sector. The associations deeply regretted the disappearance of the aided contracts, which plunged many of them into great difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u333	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u334	I didn't have a young job, but I had a qualifying contract – that's what it was then called. Then I was given an adjustment contract. If it had been extended, I might not have had a job, but another suitable contract. Because he was limited in time, and my employer wanted to keep me, he offered me a contract of employment. Contracts of this type must provide an opportunity to become part of the company, but when the employee has proven that he or she is able to stay, the employer must offer him or her a lasting contract.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u335	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u336	In 25% of cases – for example in Mr Ruffin's case – those who took up a young job subsequently found a job. But three out of four young people did not have this chance, because they were not accompanied as they should have been by their employers, whether they were communities, associations or business enterprises. In other words, there are a few good examples, but also a lot of counter-examples. In the policy we propose, we foresee stronger support which will help everyone, whatever their career path, to integrate into the world of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u338	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u339	Beyond the amendment under discussion, I have the impression that we are missing out on the real subject. In the current situation, we must explore all possible ways to help young people in France find their place in the world of work. I hear you regret that the device only worked in a quarter of the cases; But if, thanks to assisted employment, one in four young people has found a lasting place in employment, this money has not been lost. Therefore, there is no need to investigate, as you are trying to do, the trial of this device, even if it is certainly perfectable. Please, let's get out of this debate. [[Francois Ruffin applauds]] The MP who is speaking to you, however, belongs to the group Les Républicains, some of whose members thought they would put aside any form of assisted employment! Let us avoid dogmatic considerations with regard to a solution that – with suitable contracts and job support – will help young people in difficulty to gain access to employment.In the current situation, the debate that has just taken place in the Chamber seems really anachronistic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u340	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u341	I remember a television show made during the last presidential campaign. On the stage, Emmanuel Macron was debating with citizens who were all over France. In a sequence that marked me, he had explained to a lady who was in a helped job that he would not extend this arrangement – which was correct, since you restricted it a lot later – on the grounds that such contracts, insufficiently secure, not well paid enough, created too many bounty effects for communities, associations or businesses. So many arguments you just used. As he explained that he was going to remove these jobs or reduce them sharply, this woman, who was not young – she was about 50 years old – replied: "Mr Macron, it's better than nothing, and if you had to choose between such a contract and nothing, you would choose like me the first. This mechanism cannot be swept away with one hand, for if it is imperfect, it at least allows people to get out of the rut of people who, today even more than yesterday, are worried about their employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u342	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u343	Listening to you, we'd think there's no more aided contracts in France. We have only changed our vocabulary, as we are now talking about career paths skills. Mr Ruffin, in my constituency, when the aided contracts were abolished, a mayor told me that he had signed ten of them, but that when he thought, he could have done something differently. In fact, he turned these aided contracts into ten hires, which the commune had much to finance. Far from my idea of making this exception a generality, but still! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would add that if we have abolished the aided contracts for the merchant sector, which I welcome, the associations have the opportunity to create job paths skills. On Saturday, the Prime Minister announced new measures, including state ownership of 80% of CECs in priority neighbourhoods of city policy – QPV – and rural revitalization zones – ZRR. In all, in our budget, there are 120,000 assisted contracts this year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u344	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u345	To deal with the crisis, we refrain from dogmatism, Mr. Viry. We fire all the wood to find jobs. That is why we have created hiring bonuses or bonuses to support the signing of apprenticeship contracts. It is to be believed that we were heard, since 314000 apprenticeship contracts were signed mid-October; It was not self-evident. In August and September, 700000 young people were hired in CSDs of more than three months or CDI. Nor was that self-evident. We can add 100,000 civic services and 50,000 youth guarantees. So, yes, we can say that we are planning 120,000 additional aided contracts. However, there is one point on which I do not agree with you, Mr Ruffin. It is not possible to respond to the arrival of 750,000 young people in the labour market by creating 750,000 assisted jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u346	That's not what we're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u347	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Companies must also play their role first by protecting their jobs – hence the partial activity scheme we have set up – and then by creating. If we are planning 120,000 additional aided contracts, which will allow us to maintain quality support for jobs – depending on the path you have benefited from – I do not think that the massive development of assisted jobs can be the only answer to the problem of youth employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u348	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 2233.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u349	This amendment is intended to implement measure 10 announced by the Prime Minister on 24 October, as part of the plan to prevent and combat poverty. That is why I do not despair of obtaining a favourable opinion from the Special Rapporteur and the Minister. The Prime Minister said he wanted to support employment in the QPVs and ZRRs – "through an increase in the average state co-financing rate of 80 % of the skills jobs routes, and a doubling of the number of CECs in these territories by directing them to sectors in tension", particularly towards food aid. If the Prime Minister has announced the measure, which we support, he has not yet made provision for its funding. We propose to release EUR 120 million for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u350	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u351	If I'm not mistaken, Mr Vallaud, have you taken over the Prime Minister's announcements?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u352	There! If I can do a favor...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u353	This is not the only amendment of this kind... I congratulate you on your insight! So when you heard Mr Castex, you exclaimed, "Hello! He's making a lot of announcements. My group will be able to take them on its behalf and propose them in the form of amendments! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u354	His ads aren't funded!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u355	All right, Mr. Vallaud, no problem. I have done the same thing as you, even though I have limited myself to one amendment. Your amendments do not fit in with the vote on the "Work and Employment" mission, I invite you to resubmit them when we consider the fourth amending finance bill. Personally, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u356	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u357	I confirm to you, after the Special Rapporteur, that this is an announcement by the Prime Minister, who will see its translation into the fourth amending finance bill. In my turn, I suggest that the amendment be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u358	I call Mr Thibault Bazin, draftsman of the opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u359	On these matters, I am less expert than the Special Rapporteur and Mr Vallaud, but my reading is that PLFR 4 will deal with appropriations for 2020. But we are talking about those planned for 2021. The Prime Minister's announcements on CECs in the QPVs and ZRRs, where they are a real issue, deserve to be looked at closely. On 24 October, as part of the plan to prevent and combat the shift in poverty, the Prime Minister – whom we are listening to despite everything, especially since at the moment it seems that we must be friendly with him – announced that he would mobilize more than 1.8 billion, including 120 million precisely for the CECs in the QPV and ZRR. This is a good thing, especially since these territories will suffer especially in 2021. In Lorraine, which is well known by Mr Cherpion and Mr Viry, there is a 50% decrease in calls for tender, which is much higher than in the rest of the country. For these relegated territories, which are the ZRRs and the QPVs, not only must appropriations be provided under PLFR 4 – the group The Republicans supported all the emergency economic measures – but the national representation would honour itself by looking at Mr Vallaud's amendment, which concerns the year 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u360	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u361	It seems to me that my amendment is almost identical to Amendment No 2242 by the Special Rapporteur, who will be called in a moment. How can she refer me to PLFR 4, when she has tabled the same amendment as me?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u362	As soon as I defend my amendment, I will withdraw it, Mr Vallaud. Don't sue me until I introduce her!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u363	Madam Special Rapporteur, I am interested in your work. How can you take shade from it? The substance of this amendment is that it requires appropriations for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u364	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u365	Without entering into the budgetary technique, we wanted to put overall appropriations for strengthening the poverty plan in PLFR 4, because some measures are to come into force as early as 2020. In any event, I am pleased that the Prime Minister's announcements on CECs in the priority neighbourhoods of city policy and rural revitalization areas are being supported on all benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u366	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 1057.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u367	This amendment is also intended to support the Prime Minister's announcements on the plan to combat poverty. The aim is to finance the creation of 10,000 "boost" recovery jobs, a variant of the CECs, which are also reserved for young people, with a social and ecological dimension. The State would finance a degressive seeding fund for three years on the basis of 75 per cent of a gross SMIC loaded in 2021, 50 per cent in 2022 and 25 per cent in 2023, which would enable economic models to evolve and be serviced. Designed with the voluntary sector, which is particularly interested in it, this scheme would help to support young people, because, if the additional 60,000 CECs provided for in the recovery plan are welcome, I doubt that they are sufficient. The measure would complement the one we have just mentioned, and I understand that it will be financed in PLFR 4. I imagine that she will be supported by the Special Rapporteur and by the Minister, as she is in line with the Government's announcements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u369	The classification of these amendments is a bit special, since we are now going back to the CECs. I will repeat: of course, we are attentive to everything that can enable young people to reintegrate into the world of work or to find a job. It has been said that many of them are at risk of difficulties that will have to be solved. That's why we created a "youth, a solution" plan. However, I would like to remind you of what we are doing – of course, we can still want more. As of this year, we have planned 20,000 CECs, with a take-over rate of 65%, and 10,000 employment initiative contracts, with a take-over rate of 47%. In addition, we will pay particular attention to the sensitive sectors, whose list you know: the social and medico-social sector, the ecological transition, digital, culture, sport. In 2021, we will fund an additional 60,000 CECs and 50,000 CIEs. Nothing would actually prevent the addition of 10000 CECs. However, there is already everything that needs to be done; use what is put on the table. We will be attentive and will be able to return if that is not enough. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u370	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u371	We have planned an additional 60000 PECs and 50000 CIEs in 2021. I confirm to you, Mr Vallaud, that the CECs will be targeted precisely on the professions of the future, in particular those of the ecological transition, digital and care. So we are quite in the direction you want. As for the device you are proposing, if I understand correctly, it could be addressed to a qualified youth audience. To the attention of qualified young people looking for meaningful employment, we have created the ETV system, the territorial volunteers in business. However, the measure may not be sufficiently sized. In this respect, I confirm what I said earlier: we will continue to work with youth associations, anti-poverty associations and the social partners to determine whether further measures should be taken in favour of qualified young people. In particular, we have entrusted APEC with the task of accompanying young graduates who have difficulty finding employment in the current period for four months. It may be necessary to provide additional financial support for them, but this should take the time for consultation with all the actors concerned. I suggest that you withdraw the amendment, to the benefit of continuing the consultation that we want to carry out with the actors I have mentioned. Of course, all the suggestions made by Members will be welcome in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u372	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u373	Consultation with stakeholders is a very good thing. Our group has also discussed with many youth associations and a number of associations working in the areas we refer to. But it would be good if there was also, from time to time, consultation with parliamentarians,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u374	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u375	...in particular in the context of the parliamentary debate. That would be quite new! It would not be totally incongruous that proposals made by Members, even if they did not sit on the benches of the majority, would come to an end when you consider that the idea is not bad. I maintain the amendment and invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to endorse this good idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u376	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-05-O1061.u377	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Following the review of the appropriations of the "Work and Employment" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
