ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Cédric Villani and others on the first measures to prohibit certain practices which cause suffering in animals and to improve their living conditions (No 3293, 3393).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u2	Mr Cédric Villani, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u3	We only have two hours of discussion in front of us. This is clearly insufficient to conduct a genuine parliamentary debate on such an important issue and to make progress in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u4	It's disgusting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u5	[[Applause on the benches of the EDS group. – Olivier Falorni also applauds]] I know how unsatisfactory the text from the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs is – I have agreed publicly. However, he noted significant progress: the end of the holding of wild animals under inappropriate conditions and the end of the rearing of mink for their fur. It is important for me, and especially for the welfare of these animals, that these advances be adopted today, to be improved and enriched during the parliamentary shuttle. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applauds]] Everyone knows, in this Chamber and outside, our commitment to this issue. In the interests of animal welfare itself, we invite all speakers to be as concise as I would have been, so that we can adopt at least, within two hours, the text resulting from the work of the committee. Since our debates are public, everyone will be able to judge the help and goodwill of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u6	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u7	The bill we are looking at today reflects a profound evolution in our society: our eyes and feelings on animals have changed. The conception we have of their living conditions is no longer the same. The lack of suffering and abuse, desirable breeding conditions and more virtuous consumption patterns are among the major concerns of our citizens. Our perception of the captivity of wild animals is now much more sensitive. These developments occur as knowledge of the physiological needs of captive animals advances. We are also part of a fragile ecosystem: the current health crisis has confronted us with vulnerabilities and has brutally reminded us of the direct link between the balance of wildlife life and human health. Through our work and this bill, we are echoing these questions and a citizen mobilization that calls for strong societal developments. We have all been involved here in the construction of these first responses largely expected by our fellow citizens: bills, missions and reports have led us to meet those who live and work in contact with animals on a daily basis. These developments, the Government accompanies them in dialogue with all stakeholders, with the desire that the necessary transitions leave no one on the road and by ensuring respect for our rule of law, which guarantees the freedoms of everyone. It is through the association of civil society and the coordination of intermediary bodies that we will be able to implement solutions that are understood and shared by all. Since December 2019, a round of consultations has been launched with representatives of circus professionals, zoological parks and delphinariums, with fur producers, but also with elected officials, partners and other associations committed to animal welfare. The announcements that we made with Barbara Pompili on September 29th at the end of this dialogue will have to continue, and we must now reflect on the modalities for their implementation, on the basis of a key principle: the support of the sectors and activities concerned. The ban on travelling circuses from holding wildlife species whose needs are incompatible with itinerant detention, the ban on delphinariums for orcas and dolphins, which must lead to the establishment of a sanctuary, the ban on the rearing of American mink for their fur, or the introduction of standards to improve the welfare of captive wildlife in zoological parks, must be defined and clarified, as must the accompanying measures. If the bill we are considering today provides for these strong measures and represents a paradigm shift, these provisions will only have their effect if we accompany, including by human and financial means, companies and stakeholders in the sectors concerned. Everyone here is aware of the attachment these professionals have to their animals, whose daily lives they share. It was therefore not a question of abruptly interrupting their activities, but rather of thinking with them about solutions and accompaniment. As a result, EUR 8 million will be allocated to this transition. This is a minimum envelope: the sums will increase according to the exchanges and needs that will be defined with the actors. No one here hears or wishes to see circuses disappear: it is simply a matter of taking note of the fact that homelessness, which may correspond to a choice of life, necessarily implies material conditions that are decisively unsuitable for certain species. In the area of livestock farming, the Minister of Agriculture continues the work undertaken following the general states of food, the adoption of the law on the balance of commercial relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as the EGALIM Act, and the introduction of the bill to supplement it. Sector plans prepared and adopted by interprofessionals have taken into account strong societal aspirations for animal welfare. Results have already been achieved, but further work is continuing. These challenges are integrated into the recovery plan, notably through investment in livestock farms and slaughterhouses: 250 million euros will be dedicated to financing their evolution. We will thus invest in the modernisation of buildings, in training, but also in the adaptation of slaughterhouses to the requirements of animal welfare. The common agricultural policy – CAP – must also enable us to achieve these objectives by dedicating some of the appropriations paid through its second pillar. Now in charge of hunting, I would like to accompany the reflections in this same spirit of consultation and peaceful dialogue. The reform of hunting and the parliamentary work that has enriched the text creating the French Office for Biodiversity – OFB – as well as the specific measures adopted for certain practices, have already made it possible to respond to numerous inquiries relayed in the public debate. From this summer onwards, I had to meet with the federation of hunters, conservation associations, operators and experts in the field, to continue the dialogue with all stakeholders. It is strong from this commitment of all to nourish these reflections that we will continue to seek the best balances, sharing spaces and ensuring both the preservation and the regulation of species. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The debates that we will have today are accompanied by a change of perspective and representation of the animal kingdom. It is Parliament's role to debate these issues. On these ethical issues, you have all embarked on an approach of responsibility and balance. I am therefore very pleased, as the new Secretary of State for Biodiversity, to discuss these issues with you. Biodiversity is the living. The living is us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u8	In the general debate, Mrs Yolaine de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u9	The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group presents and supports the bill of our colleague member Cédric Villani, which aims to accompany the actors who are in contact with wildlife and livestock to practices adapted to the times that are opening – practices that will bring more well-being to the animal and more pride to the women and men who are in charge of it. In 1791, 1850, 1963, 1976 and 2015, five laws on ill-treatment and animal welfare had already been enacted. Today we are called upon to take a decision on a sixth text and to extend the work of our predecessors in order to do better. We can no longer ignore this debate: everyone sees it, animal welfare is a very strong expectation of our fellow citizens and arouses a lot of emotion. While the health crisis obliges us to integrate the notion of a single global health – human, animal and environmental – and while the crisis that afflicts us probably comes from a zoonosis transmitted from animal to man, our fellow citizens are unanimous: there is an urgent need to protect the animal world more, so that we can in turn live better. Thus, the overwhelming majority of them want the end of certain cruel practices of breeding, which they judge from another time. They want the fur trade to end and they want the animals we raise for our food to have places of life that meet their physiological needs. The eyes of the French on the animal have changed. Many of them no longer want them to be made of archaic demonstrations of prowess and agility. The animal is no longer man's clown: on the contrary, he wants to study it, contemplate it, respect it and protect it. If we have to hunt the animal, the French ask for a redacted hunt of practices that inflict unnecessary suffering; a hunting that respects the rules, the animal and the nature. It is with great ambition that we present this text today, which will change all stakeholders. Animal welfare is an important democratic issue. We want to legislate so that the dysfunctions that exist are no longer only denounced by associations whose actions sometimes lead to artificially ligating one against the other two so-called camps, the urban camp and the rural camp. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The National Assembly has a great responsibility in this regard. The EDS Group invites you to address this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u10	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u11	It is with great pride that we look at the text before us. Many of us have hoped for its examination, because we know the expectations of our fellow citizens and of the many associations that have been engaged for decades on the issue of combating the mistreatment – for the proper treatment – of animals. As you said, Madam Secretary of State, our animal report has changed. This does not mean that we are completely changing our paradigm, but that there are certain practices that we believe must be put to an end, today and now, by a vote in the House. We are living on a special day, since we have already discussed, this morning and this afternoon, an essential subject for women's rights. It is true that we move from one theme to another, in accordance with the rules governing the functioning of the Assembly: this is the lot of the days of parliamentary niche. This does not mean, however, that the issue we are considering this evening in a reduced period of two hours is incidental, so great is the citizen mobilization that is expressed on these subjects – a necessary, useful and relevant mobilization. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] Finally, we will end the holding of wildlife in travelling circuses and the marketing and rearing of animals used solely for their fur, especially mink. But, as you know, Madam Secretary of State, members of the Republic on the move want to go further to protect pets and regulate their marketing, because we do not consider them to be compulsive toys. We want to make progress, along with the sectors, in the field of animal husbandry. We want to do so in a peaceful debate, because our society is already sufficiently fragmented and fragmented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u12	Thanks to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u13	[[Applause on several benches of the EDS and LaREM groups]] It is not a question of questioning the customs and traditions that make the identity of the territories, but of reconciling this identity with essential citizens' aspirations, to which we will be able to respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u14	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u15	No less than 153 investigations are currently being conducted in more than half of the French departments on the mutilation of horses that have affected our country since this summer and leave no one indifferent. Whatever their race or age, images of mutilated or mistreated animals have convinced the last recalcitrants of the need to frame animal welfare more firmly, a concept that has not yet existed in the public debate. The changes in the territories, the intensification of animal production and the evolution of scientific knowledge explain in part why citizens demand that the sensitivity of the animal be better taken into account. Beyond emotional or scientific aspects, this issue has a real ethical dimension. Wild, domestic or domestic, the animal creates social ties and manages to restore simplicity in a society that is sometimes characterized by its complexity. Paradoxal debates may arise in this context, because of the difficulty in identifying the animal's status, physiological reality and place with humans. Without falling into excess at the risk of anthropomorphism, we all have a responsibility to protect the living being. Education, civicism and moralization of animal marketing are the three pillars of animal welfare, both domestic and wild. That is why I am committed to supporting animal welfare by voting, without difficulty, for the scheduled end of the captivity of wild animals in travelling circuses. Indeed, the conditions imposed on them in this type of circus are incompatible with their way of life and cause considerable stress that contributes to the weakening of their well-being. The public will not abandon the capitals if the Government undertakes to deploy the necessary means to accompany the breeders and trainers in this necessary transition. It is possible to raise awareness and entertain the public through shows, as pleasant as they are precious, that do not include wild animals. This would enable France to catch up with its serious delay in this regard. [[Matthieu Orphelin applauds]] Similarly, I am prepared to support the ban on the production and slaughter of mink for their fur. We have changed our era and are now able to recognize that certain situations faced by animals reared solely for their fur are no longer acceptable. It must also be admitted that the fur market has changed considerably in recent years, thanks to a real awareness not only of fashion players but also of consumers. Incoherence remains, however, as the import of mink fur into France was maintained while alternatives could have been considered to go even further. Today we have the technology to develop new fibres that can replace animal skins and have the same quality standards. We have also seen violence in certain animal farms and slaughterhouses, relayed by certain associations, by whistleblowers or by the veterinary services of the State. Physical or psychological abuse, neglect and abuse are a daily reality for many animals. I strongly condemn these cruel practices, without any connection with the farming and producer professions as they are to be practised in our territory. No one can be insensitive to cruelty to animals, but everyone must understand that these violent images do not reflect the reality of the activities of French farmers and farmers, who are characterized by their passion, their exemplary dedication, but also by deep love and respect for animals. Let us not stigmatize them, for the majority of them share our common objective, which is to tend towards the absence of suffering, both physical and mental, of animals. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] It would be a serious mistake to oppose animal welfare. A good breeder loves his beasts, he is aware of what the living is and does not stand to see his beast suffer – much less to make it suffer. Admittedly, there have been – and still are – unacceptable practices. In order to eradicate them, we need a clear and precise legislative framework. But sometimes we also have to take the time of reflection, which has become so difficult at a time when time is running, radicality and simplisticism take precedence over time, nuance and complexity. Before framing and prohibiting, it is also necessary to consult, dialogue and accompany in order to complete the transitions. While unilateral decisions sometimes satisfy a part of public opinion, they can also be devastating economically and socially. In order to encourage the virtuous practices of producers, it is essential to ensure that they are supported to facilitate investment, to provide technical support which would make possible a change in practices and to guarantee remuneration which would help to amortise the additional costs of certain activities. However, as has been noted recently, prohibitions that would not be accompanied by alternative solutions would only lead to impasses, frustrations or retro-pedaling. Your bill raises complex philosophical questions that affect our relationship, and that of our society, to nature. I regret that, in this type of debate, within the National Assembly or outside, we are being forced into a kind of manicheism by virtue of which any criticism, even on form, is equated with a lack of respect for animal welfare. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and EDS groups]] In my personal capacity, I will vote for this bill as it emerged from the Committee on Economic Affairs. Some of my colleagues think differently, which I admit. The Republican Group is committed to the expression of nuances, to the acceptance of complexity, especially on a question which is a matter of personal sensitivity and which can present itself differently according to our territories. That is why freedom of vote will be our group's line.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u16	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u17	The link we have with the animal has already been the subject of much debate in the House two years ago when we considered the EGALIM bill. On all these benches, some had expressed the wish that strong animal and environmental protection requirements should be laid down. The articles we adopted on this subject last week in committee are therefore in line with the progress achieved in the EGALIM law. As my group has expressed in committee, we are all – I think – very sensitive to animal suffering issues. There is a need for time to discuss this issue rationally. Animal welfare deserves long-term work, including broad consultation. That is why I hope, on behalf of the MODEM and Allied Democrats, that, like the EGALIM Act, which has been the subject of a lengthy parliamentary process, this bill can be enriched, debated and worked out throughout the parliamentary shuttle in order to produce a comprehensive, comprehensive and universally accepted text. The MODEM and related democrats would like our debate to see a truly effective and incentive law adopted, not a punitive and inapplicable law. It is important to bring with us the entire population without throwing reproach on certain practices, which have their history and reasons. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have been defending adaptation times and strengthening the role of the sectors. In this respect, I welcome the examination in committee, which has made many progress. Our discussions have been intense, frank and direct, but the debates have never been heated. I want to make sure that we can continue to work under the same constructive conditions today. There are many topics for debate. We would like to take advantage of this text to increase the penalties for acts of cruelty to animals. We all have in mind these dreadful images of mutilated horses. I therefore welcome the amendments tabled by various groups aimed at widely sanctioning these acts. We also want to take advantage of the parliamentary shuttle to find mechanisms to combat animal rearing and slaughter in order to market their fur. These animals are trapped from birth in small cages that make them mad to the point of causing abnormal behaviour in them, including self-harm and cannibalism. Article 2, which concerns only American mink, represents a significant step forward in this regard. However, I would like to warn you about the supervision of the presence of animals in certain structures. Like some groups, we ask that these prohibitions not apply to zoological parks that implement species conservation and breeding programs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u19	These establishments are made up of people dedicated to the protection of biodiversity. In our view, it is essential to protect their activity, which is particularly useful for the pedagogy of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u21	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group. – MM. François Jolivet, Jean Lassalle and Pascal Brindeau also applaud]] We will also alert you to articles that would prohibit certain hunting practices. While some of them may raise questions, provoke debate or even shock certain consciences, they are often caricatured. Thus, I would like to recall that hunting is a history and tradition and creates a social bond. I regret the drift which often consists in banning the practices of others without even trying to understand them. Rather than these particular practices, in my view it is a general state of mind, nourished by anthropomorphism and intolerance, which, far from constituting progress, appears on the contrary to be a dangerous and, I believe, absurd drift in our relationship to animals and nature. Having said that, we share the objective of reducing animal suffering as soon as possible. In general, we support a smooth transition, based on conciliation and not on brutal injunctions. For example, the ban on the exploitation of any building that does not guarantee animals access to the open air cannot take our membership because it would harm many farmers. We cannot be demanding on the transformation of our agriculture into a virtuous model without providing the necessary measures to support the agricultural world. Much has been done by the farmers themselves as well as by the agricultural sectors, which have been able to mobilize in recent months and years against animal suffering, in particular through their respective sector plans. Our fields have already come a long way. [[Michèle de Vaucouleurs and Alain Perea applaud]] That is my group's position on this text, which at least has the merit of questioning our report on animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u22	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u23	Can we, as the original draft law provided for, legislate within the same framework, and considering the same stakes, on hunting, which is closely linked to the preservation of biodiversity, and on livestock, which questions the social and economic models of agriculture? What, too, of domestic animals, absent from the field covered by this text while the Society for the Protection of Animals, which is experiencing recurrent difficulties, notes, with the health crisis, a resurgence of acts of malice vis-à-vis pets? Major subjects are thus dealt with in a derisory time: this is an opportunity that the Government has seized to short-circuit the debate. Minister Barbara Pompili has already announced two prohibitions: the raising of mink and the holding of wild animals in circuses. They will be voted on, with our votes. Let's go back to hunting: the original text concerned about 5% of the hunts carried out in our country, a tiny part of this practice: 50,000 hunters out of 1 million registered in France. The question concerned the vulgar nature of the methods used and the suffering inflicted on the game: the animals hunted during the hunts to run, which also pose problems in terms of the appropriation of space and the safety of people; the furry of the badger, which includes unacceptable behaviors and impacts on other species that coexist in the burrows; hunting of passing birds, insufficiently selective or even poaching. So, should we ban a few hunts? Why not, we can discuss it. In any case, we are convinced that all hunting must be better controlled. The gendarmerie's indicators mention 9500 acts of cruelty or ill-treatment of animals in 2018. I would also remind you that the bill creating the Agence française de la biodiversité, AFB, provides that "the Minister of the Environment could determine the maximum number of animals of the species subject to adaptive management to be collected annually and the specific conditions for hunting these species". Remember also the two decrees of April and July 2019 prohibiting the intolerable practices of the underground furry and the one of February 2019 limiting the hunt to run. The community needs, first and foremost, a strict hunting police, which leads me to ask you, Secretary of State, whether you have made all the necessary efforts – I'm talking about investing in people and resources – to ensure that this environmental police, the cornerstone of biodiversity and animal welfare, is physically operational in our woods, in our rivers, near cultivated areas. While you have announced sixty job cuts by 2022 within the AFB services – but not within the departmental services – we are asking for an increase in the number of operational staff so that the hunting police can be more powerful. [[MM. Bastien Lachaud and Cédric Villani, rapporteur, applaud]] With regard to livestock farming, we are convinced that there can be no improvement in the welfare of production animals without the decent living and working conditions of farmers. The well-being of man and the well-being of the animal are one, so we must advance them together. The rapporteur's explanatory memorandum, in his original draft law, made a good reference to it. However, the agro-industrial model has undermined the relationship between the breeder and the animal: intensive rearing and the development of factory farms cause unbearable drifts, which have been found and must be punished. Be sure, however: in the same way that large firms benefit from the current common agricultural policy and the free trade treaties, they will be able to go beyond the additional normative rules to the detriment of peasant farming, i.e. the preservation of a whole part of biodiversity, the reconquest of open spaces, meadows and groves, which are precisely an environment that ensures the welfare of farmed animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u24	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u25	Above and beyond the standards, the presence of liberal veterinary services and veterinarians, who are responsible for breeders, should also be strengthened, and their installation in rural areas is being reduced in a very worrying way. In addition, during the drafting of this bill, you have been quick to remove the Transition Support Fund, which in fact makes many of the obligations that could be voted inapplicable to small farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u26	Exactly! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u27	[["Congratulation! » on several benches of the LR group]] [[Vif applause on several benches of the SOC,UDI-I, LT and LR groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to solemnly say that the fact that this debate is animated by several personalities, billionaires and champions of artificial food – false meat, fake eggs (Applause on several benches of the SOC, UDI-I, LT and LR groups as well as on some benches of the LaREM group) – shows that powerful interests manipulate the legitimate sensitivity of our fellow citizens on this issue. The French need to know that we are witnessing a company destabilising peasant farming. [[Applause on several benches of the SOC, EDS and LaREM groups]] We reject a sloppy, truncated debate and any demagogic exploitation that could be made of it! In these circumstances, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for this text, reserving the right to take all its responsibilities with regard to the amendments to be tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u28	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u29	I had planned a long speech because I expected to have a real debate in the House. Many of our fellow citizens are waiting for this fundamental debate on the animal condition, but in the end we have only less than two hours to devote to it. I shall therefore restrict my statement to a minimum, in order to allow a maximum of provisions to be voted on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u30	If we don't vote, it doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u31	I would simply like to warn you, Madam Secretary of State and ladies and gentlemen, of the absolute necessity – I see that the Secretary of State is very attentive to what I say – to have a real debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u32	Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u33	She doesn't seem to want it very much...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u34	[[Mrs Agnes Thill and Mr Pascal Brindeau applaud]] I know that many colleagues – I am thinking in particular of Loïc Dombreval, Laëtitia Romeiro Dias, Samantha Cazebonne and many others – have worked on concrete proposals to improve the animal condition; It would not be acceptable if, by next year, we did not have a real debate on these issues. The citizens are watching us, and we cannot content ourselves with a two-hour debate, at twenty-two o'clock on Thursday evening, to consider that our work is being done. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and EDS groups]] Of course, I would like to welcome the measures taken and announced by Minister Barbara Pompili, but that is not enough, and we must go further. I will speak on each of the points in the bill, and I will not expand further to allow the debate to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u36	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u37	Yes, beef-fed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u38	This evening we are addressing an important bill that refers to animals and their well-being. It is worth recalling that in 2015, the MPs – of whom I was a member –, by section 515-14 of the Civil Code, made the law recognize that "animals are living beings gifted with sensitivity." I would like to address the rapporteur and the members of the Group of the European People's Party. I will never teach you the lesson – who am I to do it? –, but I would just like to recall elements of context. In 2017, those MPs who, a few weeks ago, were still members of the Republic on the move, were elected on fundamental principles: overcoming and ending divisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Emmanuel Macron worked in this direction in 2017, and he was elected for it. He wanted to avoid the logic of the bloc against bloc, a requirement that I think I have always understood because, as a centrist, for thirty years at the local level, and for thirteen years here, I have tried to find the truth where it is. However, it is sometimes found on part of these benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and some benches of the LaREM group]] These elements of context make me tell you, dear Cédric Villani, that the climate in which we are currently evolving about animals is the opposite – the contrast is enormous – of the dynamics that had been created by the general states of food, then wanted by the President of the Republic and led by the then Minister of Agriculture, Stéphane Travert. The latter had brought together all the actors, and I myself had participated, here in Paris, in the launch of these general statements. After the presentation by the Minister of Agriculture, the first person to speak was Mrs Audrey Pulvar, who had discussed the subject of animal welfare and how it was taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u44	Since: nothing, zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u45	[[Applause on many benches]] I would also like to recall that the scope of your text, dear Cédric, was initially very broad. It dealt with both wild animals living in circuses and zoos, those reared for their fur, hunting and breeding. We are talking about animal welfare, but in this forum I would like to refer to the ill-being of farmers. I am a member of a rural constituency where, last night, while I was going back and forth between the National Assembly and Fougères, in my constituency, a rabbit breeder called me around twenty-one hours to tell me his concern. In the course of our discussions, I hope, dear Cédric, that we will have a debate as constructive as it is in committee, thanks to which we will be able to concentrate, with a method, on two subjects mentioned in your opening remarks, and on which you have expressed the wish to see the bill come to an end: the end of the detention of wild animals in travelling circuses – I subscribe, as part of my group – and the cessation of the rearing of American mink for their fur – on this point too, a good part of the UDI-I group joins you. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR group. – Mr Jean Lasalle and Mrs Aurore Bergé also applaud]] We will not let you down with our amendments: our group has only tabled three of them. I look at Aurore Bergé, who asked me to be short; I have five minutes and, I insist, we have only three amendments, tabled by Sophie Auconie, relating to zoos, which we consider to have an educational mission. They may also have, in some cases, when a genuine partnership is established with the State, a mission of conservation of certain species and conservation of biodiversity. This may be part of their specifications; The debates we will have this evening must help ensure that zoos are given special attention. [[Same movements]] I'd like to say a word about hunters. They are not the ones we believe; They're environmental watchdogs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u46	They deserve to be respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u47	I also regret that your bill does not address the issue of ritual slaughter in any place, or the issue of animals and animals marketed there under difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u48	Thanks for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u49	Finally, it should be added that our debate is taking place in a context where animals are mutilated, and where farmers, concerned about the welfare of their animals, spend part of their nights watching them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u50	Thank you, Mr. Benoit...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u51	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] We will be constructive in defending our three amendments, and we will ensure, Mr rapporteur, that you look kindly at them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u52	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u53	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u54	On the occasion of the examination of Cédric Villani's bill, which we co-signed, we had to have a debate on key topics for hundreds of thousands – even millions – of our fellow citizens: the 800,000 French who signed the proposal for a joint initiative referendum on animal welfare; the 82% of French people who are in favour of the end of cage farming; the 84% of French people who are in favour of the ban on hunting; 91% of French people who are opposed to the fur trade. But the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly force us to examine this text in record time. Either we vote without debate before midnight, or we will have to resolve not to have the bill reviewed completed. However, the Republic on the move could very well, if it considers the subject important – and it is – resume consideration of the text on its dedicated time; This would allow us to discuss it fully.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u55	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u57	Already, in committee, the text was detrigued by the majority, which reduced it to the congruous portion. And we'd have to settle for it, and we wouldn't have to argue about it? In short, we would like to vote on the text corresponding to Ms Pompili's statements; This would end up making this assembly the government's desiderata registration chamber. We want to have the debate on the rearing of animals for their fur, which LaREM wants to reduce to the issue of mink. [[Claims on several benches in the LR group]] We want to have the debate on the hunt to run, barbaric, cruel, oligarchic practice, which dates from the old "old world" – the old regime – and which still brutalizes our forests today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u58	On ritual slaughter too, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u59	But President Macron does not want this debate, submitted that he is to the hunting lobby. In fact, an elder of his ministers paid the price. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] We want to have the debate on the subterranean fury, the digging of badgers and foxes, in a series of brutal and petty violence, to beat to death animals that have been dug out of their homes. It is not hunting, but pure sadistic and cruel pleasure, to torture animals by causing them absolute terror before completing them. Such a practice is not a leisure, it is an abomination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u60	And ritual slaughter, what do you say? We'd like to hear from you about this!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u61	The hunters are respectable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u62	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] We want to have the debate on intensive rearing, which martyrs 3 million animals every day in our country. The Rules of Procedure do not allow us to debate the grinding of live chicks; We won't even talk about it. Last week, terrible images of rabbits in cages were revealed; Today, they're pigs. Every time, it's the same thing: suffering, suffering, suffering! All to satisfy profitability objectives which do not even allow the farmer to live, but which are lost in the margins of large distribution or in the deregulated world market. The majority swept the article on animal husbandry with a back of hand, on the pretext that the EGALIM law had already settled everything. That's a lie. Throughout the discussions on this law, it has been reiterated that nothing more needs to be done than to trust the industry. It is not that professionals are untrustworthy, but having three employees for 6000 animals does not allow to take care of it. The implementing decrees on the prohibition of breeding in cages of hens have not yet been published. Shame to the Government, which makes announcements and does nothing! The crisis of the Covid-19 has been a brutal and obvious reminder that, despite all our culture and technology, we are above all living beings. We need, like others, to feed and treat ourselves. [[Yolaine de Courson applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and EDS groups]] We need to start building new relationships with the other animals around us. With climate change, one thing is certain: we are all on the same planet. There is a general human interest in combating the causes of climate change. Climate disasters, such as fires, floods and droughts, are proliferating, and human beings will not survive alone. We need the other species that make up our ecosystem to live. We must stop the massacre of wild and domestic animals. We must cooperate with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u63	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u64	Who, on these benches, was not shocked by the images revealing unacceptable – though minority – practices of the conditions for slaughtering livestock in certain establishments, in clear violation of current regulations? Who, on these benches, was not arrested by pro- and anti-hunting? These various events and facts have contributed to putting the issue of animal abuse on the political agenda, and that is a good thing. This led to the referendum procedure of shared initiative, which gave visibility to a wide range of causes: prohibition of intensive breeding, hunting, digging and traditional hunting, or shows with wild animals. These causes form the architecture – if we can say so – of the original text of this bill. [[Applause on a few benches of the LT and LR groups]] Our mandate requires us, as legislators, to rise up to ask ourselves about the many thousand-year-old relationships that men have with domestic and livestock animals or wildlife. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] In recent years, our societies have developed a better knowledge of animals, their intelligence, their sensitivity, their ability even to express feelings, and this is a positive fact. Young people are also increasingly sensitive to the environmental impact of their diet. We look forward to it. That obliges us, hence this legislative meeting. But we are also a company that has created a distance between products – a fortiori when it comes to meat – and consumers. It is this caesure between the urban and rural worlds that causes incomprehension. And, as we can see, the gap is widening and farmers often find themselves unfairly in the dock of the accused. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, UDI-I and SOC groups]] Yes, the industrialization of livestock farming raises questions, but I would not like this text to be an opportunity to question the very notion of livestock farming. Because we see the dynamics at work, relayed by media actors in search of fame and great entrepreneurs, real financial heavyweights, who pursue a different objective. One has the right to wonder about their true intentions – probably a vegetarian society or even vegans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u66	[[Same movements]] We must say this in this forum, in this Chamber: in my view, cellular farming must not be the future of our food. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Don't be mistaken: the question of animal welfare is central and I believe that respecting animals is not a contradiction with accepting their death. I think, however, that this existential question requires more than one-off measures which are not part of a global project. Dear Cédric, I say this directly: we need a global project with a clear purpose; and clearly, the purpose of this text is not. The absence of a social project, at home, leaves the field open to others, whose will to get us out of a historical society to embark on another project, Vegetarianism, must challenge us. By not asking the right questions, this text leads to unfinished proposals. I am thinking, for example, of Article 2, which prohibits breeding only for American mink intended for fur production. How would rabbits, hermines or coyotes, also raised for their fur, be less legitimate to be preserved?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u67	They don't like rabbits!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u68	That's what we'd like to talk about! We need a comprehensive approach. To be concerned about the fate of certain species with a strong potential for sympathy and to abandon others, do we not, paradoxically, show an inappropriate anthropocentrism? Remember Maurice, the goldfish, packed in carnivals in a plastic bag: it will not be preserved. That, too, should have been debated. Article 1 originally created a fund to support the transition of actors affected by the provisions of the proposed law. Article 5, on the other hand, was gradually transforming some breeding practices. On this point, I believe that there is a fundamental difference between livestock farming, which is the result of millennia – we must say it and repeat it – and the industrial systems, which devote a purely utilitarian and accounting logic to the relationship to animals. Olivier Falorni, Member of the Libertés et Territoires Group, has been at the forefront for several years on the issue of slaughterhouses; Thanks to him, we have been able to move forward on this issue. At a time when French farmers are faced with conflicting injunctions – a requirement for quality, reduction of environmental impact, better management of hazards, all under an ever lower cost constraint and with significant foreign competition – it is imperative to accompany them in their change of practice. [[Applause on several benches of the LT, LR, UDI-I and SOC groups]] Some in the Liberties and Territories Group see this bill as a first step towards taking animal welfare into account in public policies. Others regret that this text has not been able to deal with the central question of the place of animals in our society and has not been more interested in a species in danger: the agricultural world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u69	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u70	The philosopher Olivier Abel, asked what he would do if he was elected President of the Republic, had replied that his first step would be to fight humiliation, which is the worst of all violence. I would like, in our remarks this evening, to avoid two humiliations: firstly, with regard to those who exercise one of the most beautiful professions in the world, who carry out one of the noblest tasks that are – feeding the earth, feeding the people – and those who carry out traditions and stagings reflecting the thousand-year-old bond between man and animal since the dawn of time. Let none of these – neither breeder nor practice great ancestral traditions, in all their diversity – be humiliated tonight. But let not be humiliated either those who, out of emotion and in a kind of prolongation of charity, today put the question of animal welfare on the surface.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u72	We must take everything into account, but we must also, as politicians, exercise discernment. The latter must make us understand that if such subjects take on such importance in such a political agenda, it is that it is a sign of the times, the sign of a society far too disconnected from the real nature, wild as domestic, of animality,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u74	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u75	...but also of a certain verticality, of an anthropology, of a spiritual root that says what is the "we" of humanity and of the living, in a perfectly established zoology, where each thing is in its place. [[Applause on a few benches of the SOC group. – Mr. Hervé Berville also applauds]] As politicians, our responsibility is to exercise discernment. We must be wary of sentimentalism. The latter may bear barbarism; It can be the object of all manipulations of occult powers, whose objectives are not those of our project of civilization and humanity. We must show immense discernment, for who makes the angel the beast, and behind the expression of the feeling, there may be dark forces that keep us away from the lights and our spiritual sources. What is at stake is the boundary between the respect of the living, the constituent of our humanity, and its worship that would bring the human being back, by reciprocity, to his own animality. [[Applause on several benches of the SOC, LaREM, Dem, LT and IDU-I groups]] Against transhumanist and animalist temptations, we must defend our humanism and reaffirm its significance. For us, given the question that brings us together tonight, the animal is neither a thing nor a person.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u76	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u77	[[Applause on several benches of the SOC, LaREM, LR, IUD-I, LT and EDS groups]] We do not believe in the chimera of an idyllic nature, of an unlikely Eden, or its short-term instrumentalization. We believe in an allied nature and therefore propose another way: that of reconciliation, our plan B on animal condition. "One health": the concept was born from epidemiology and today it is invading our societies as a project of hope. It consists of remembering that there is no human health if there is no animal health, that there is no animal health if there is no plant health and that there is no plant health if there is no soil health. This is what we need to become aware of, but by keeping man at the top, by seeking the good of man. This cycle of fertility, this capacity for the birth of the permanent world, must enable us to feed the earth, to regulate here, to protect elsewhere, with realism. Today there is an ideology that contrasts Earth and non-Terrian.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u78	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u79	We're not out of the ground and we don't hear anything about this division. We Socialists believe that the real divide is between the partakers and the others. These, starting from all the peripheries of our society, take justice as a compass – a justice that would allow us to feed all men and make a covenant with nature. I will conclude by quoting a great text, published in recent days, which refers to François d'Assise by taking up an extraordinary formula:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u80	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u81	[[New applause on several benches of the SOC, LaREM, LR, IUD-I, LT and EDS groups. – Mr Hubert Wulfranc also applauds and rises]] ...François d'Assise "feel brother to the sun, the sea and the wind," but above all brother to other humans, human brother.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u82	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u83	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u84	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u85	It is quite obvious that no one, in any case no one of about sense, is insensitive to the suffering of animals. Yet this topic has become recurrent and has taken an important place in the debate. There are, I believe, two main reasons for this. The first is that society has evolved and, we must have the honesty to recognize it, it is perhaps a subject that has been set aside for too long. Yes, I think we must never stop working to improve animal welfare. The second reason, which is much less satisfactory, is that animal suffering is also instrumentalized by activists who play on the difference between those who really know a subject or a practice and a more secular audience, likely to react to misleading information. Many people know the practices of hunting or breeding, for example, only through images of shocks filmed here and there, sometimes even outside France, in no way representative of reality, but cleverly mounted with the sole aim of causing disgust and rejection. Of course, I do not deny that there can be abominable practices that persist as a result of the continuous decline in veterinary checks. But the violations of the law committed by a few cannot call into question entire farming systems. I would therefore like to pay tribute here to the wisdom of the committee which has withdrawn from this text the provisions concerning hunting – a place of real social mix in our countryside –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u87	...that would certainly have caused serious turmoil. Times have changed. In the past, to present to the public a wild animal, a learned monkey or an acrobat bear was, in addition to the curiosity that this aroused in the spectator, the demonstration – which certainly seems anachronistic today – of the superiority of man over the animal kingdom. The knowledge of wildlife, the circulation of information, the development of the Internet and the shrinking world they cause have a consequence: the public's perception is shifting towards a greater attention to the natural environment of wild animals. So, do we have to accompany these changes? Of course I do. Should we do it brutally? I don't believe it. It is because we are humans that we are able to reflect on animal suffering, but wanting to make man an animal like another – or, for some, a predator to eliminate – is an outrage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u88	Go tell Brigitte Bardot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u89	Of course, I am talking about anti-specism, which is at the origin of violent and intolerant behaviors such as the attack on butchers or the rampage of livestock. The Ministry of the Interior recorded 1,000 anti-specist actions in 2019: tags, degradation of agricultural equipment, attacks by traders and even apology of terrorism. In order to avoid these abuses, I believe that we must be exemplary in the punishment of the perpetrators of these abuses, just as we must be for the ill-treatment of animals. We must also denounce the outrages of certain militant discourses that equate battery farming with the concentrationary system and put an end to this kind of recurrent suspicion of abuse that weighs on our farmers and that is a great violence against them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u90	That's completely true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u91	Once again, the debate must remain calm. On the other hand, it is astonished that the text ignores massive abuse more than ever before: the ritual slaughter of animals without prior dizziness. Indeed, the text completely obscured this practice, which must disappear from slaughterhouses. In the same way, illegal slaughter must be stopped, which neglects this elementary precaution preventing the animal from suffering. In addition to health concerns, this is a unanimous recommendation of veterinarians, who consider that the loss of consciousness of the animal is the only solution to avoid pain. Finally, I cannot finish my remarks without mentioning a worrying phenomenon, the origin of which is still unknown: the mutilation of horses. More than 200 investigations are under way, but there is no definitive evidence to identify the culprits or to understand their motives. Elected in a department where horse rearing, especially those of Camargue, is important, I want to assure the owners and breeders of my support, who now live in fear of their animals mutilated or killed, and I hope that justice works with the greatest speed and severity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u92	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u93	Some of the issues raised were ruled out by the service of the meeting, which understood that some of the amendments tabled were outside the scope of the text. To the truth, there is so much to say about animal welfare that there is a need for several pieces of legislation. There is an urgent need to work on these issues. Several of you have mentioned divisions. You will never hear in my mouth of incrimination addressed to anyone, nor words intended to cast some against others. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] At the same time, we have a duty to evolve together. This is our responsibility as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u94	It's a little short...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u95	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u96	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u97	The debate is made difficult by the very format of the bill, too small to cover all the issues – you yourself have just raised it, Mr rapporteur – and by the way the day went on: we will be unable to address everything that is planned in the very limited time that we have left this evening. Is the expression "animal well-being" used in the explanatory memorandum really appropriate? Shouldn't it be better to talk about "animal condition"? It seems particularly delicate to us to deal in the same text with the capture and trafficking of wild animals for purely mercantile purposes and the virtuous rearing of animals on our farms. Nor can we compare to such torture the hunting practices that still exist – that is happy – in our country. They are inherited from ancestral traditions and contribute to man's control of nature and the environment and the regulation of species. Similarly, zoos, where species are sought to be preserved, and places where only the death of animals is sought, cannot be placed on the same level. There are two missing elements in this bill. On the one hand, it must be said to begin with that man must be able to control the animals and that being omnivorous, he must be able to eat meat. This introductory statement would not be an insult; Its absence, on the contrary, makes the debate particularly difficult. On the other hand, if we want to bring the debate to an end – which I have said will not allow – we must also question the origin and practices of those who denounce facts – of which I do not deny the irregularity and violence – observed in certain farms. The said practices are perfectly illegal and condemnable...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u98	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u99	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Ms Sophie Auconie and Ms Agnes Thill and Mr. Jean Lassalle and Thierry Benoit also applaud]] ... and endanger not only our farmers, but also our way of life and the human stability of our societies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u100	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u101	I thank you, Mr rapporteur, for your commitment to the issue of animal welfare, which is dear to all groups. It is Parliament's honour to combat animal abuse and suffering. Animals are not industrial objects, and it is quite normal for us to take up the subject. However, we will not be able to go very far tonight. I therefore call on the Government to act as quickly and as strongly as possible, in the public interest. Yes, we are very clearly in favour of banning the rearing of animals for the sole purpose of recovering their fur. Yes, we want to change our production model, which also means changing our relationship to farming. Yes, we want to ban hunting to run...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u102	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u103	...and the fury under the ground. Yes, we want to put an end to the use of wild animals in circuses. Yes, we also want to tackle the abuse of domestic animals. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I hope that we will have the opportunity to come back very seriously to all these points in the coming weeks or months. We really need to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u104	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u105	I will not make you a trial of intent, Mr. Rapporteur. I believe that you have tabled in all sincerity this proposal for a law on animal welfare, a cause that brings together and to which many of our fellow citizens are sensitive. However, they should not be deceived – I do not accuse you of doing so – about the real goals that are being pursued. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups. – MM. Jean Lassalle and Jean-Baptiste Moreau also applaud]] In any event, I would like to denounce here the methods of the L214 lobby, which not only intimidates farmers and businesses, sometimes through violence, in any case illegality, but also parliamentarians, by sending them dozens of e-mails, allegedly signed by voters in their constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u106	It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u107	I have had some of the names at the bottom of these messages checked: they are not on the lists of electors. This method...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u108	Harassment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u109	...is used by a lobby whose sources of funding are known. They were denounced by Mr Wulfranc and I also denounce them:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u111	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LR groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – MM. François-Michel Lambert and Jean Lassalle also applaud]] ... these funding comes from American companies, whose sole objective is to ban meat consumption in France and to kill our agriculture and livestock. This is unacceptable! [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] Unfortunately, when you put on the agenda a bill of this nature, even if its scope is now reduced to two subjects – the prohibition of the breeding of animals for their fur and the prohibition of the use of wild animals in circuses – you cause the mix of genera and confusion among our fellow citizens between animal welfare and the objectives of these lobbies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u113	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] What is more, because of the previous text, you are preventing us from discussing these issues, which deserve time. This is not possible; You must withdraw this text and we must be able to consider it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u115	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u116	I understand that it bothers you, Mr. Brindeau, to receive very many emails with the same content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u117	Especially when it's artificial, it's a manipulation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u118	Let my colleague talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u119	President Lagarde, you have spoken many times today, and I have not interrupted you once. I wish you'd listen to me. [[Mr. Bastien Lachaud and Ms. Claire O的Petit applaud]] I grant you that it is very annoying, Mr.Brindeau, but I am very surprised that no one has said a word about the hunters who have come before my permanence – I do not know if others among us are involved – to try to intimidate me – the one who will succeed in it has not been born – and to make me change my mind. These were not e-mails, they were people! Who is here to denounce the hunters' lobbies? [[Applause on the benches of the FI and SOC groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Ms. Claire O-Little also applauds]] Some are against you, others are against us. It is democracy, and we must deal with it. When you have convictions, you assume them. For my part, I assumed: I met the hunters in front of my permanence, I was not afraid. You're embarrassed to receive e-mails, but, if I may say so, they're just e-mails. In front of me, they were people of flesh and bone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u120	I ask for the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u121	I have already given the floor to a speaker from your group, Mr Lagarde. You will have the opportunity to speak later. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 7 and 62, to delete Article 1. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u122	I am indeed proposing that Article 1 should be deleted for the sake of consistency. Last week, our chamber considered the bill to speed up and simplify public action. This text, which the majority voted for, provides for the abolition of a number of Theodule committees. This is to be welcomed, but these sound resolutions will not have lasted long, since Article 1 of this bill tends to create a new committee to monitor their implementation. In a State governed by the rule of law, it was not a committee, but the judicial authority which was responsible for enforcing the law and punishing its failure. It is not decent to imagine that in every piece of legislation examined by the National Assembly a committee to enforce it would be associated. Moreover, the composition of the committee in question was referred to a decree, the text indicating that only six parliamentarians would sit on it. In the absence of further clarification, there remains a doubt that organizations other than Parliament that will be represented on the committee could defend an ideology or private interests, far from common sense and the common good.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u123	On the identical amendments Nos 7 and 62, I am seized by the independent UDI Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u124	I thank the EDS Group for giving us the opportunity to discuss the issue of animal welfare. During the discussion of the previous text, our group was able to present its conception of humanism, and we discussed procreation and birthing at length: for some, human beings must be wanted by their fellow human beings; for others, they must be welcomed. Now you are raising the issue of human-animal relations. Your bill is clearly marked, as the citizens' initiative referendum on the same theme, by anti-specism,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u125	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u126	... philosophy characterized by the negation of species. We think for our part, because we are humanists, that man has a special vocation, different from that of animals. It is a good thing that we can discuss it. I have tabled amendments to delete all the articles, including this one, because I am radically opposed to the philosophy of the text, to its very spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u127	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u128	Accepting only one of these measures while rejecting others would be misleading. Indeed, as soon as we enter into the logic that you seek to impose on us, we would be caught in an infernal gear. We will have an opportunity to debate what differentiates man from the animal. It is not a hierarchy, it is a difference. Some deny them, considering that it is precisely man who threatens the planet and that it must disappear. We are falsely against this idea. Some want to question completely the relationship between humans and animals. We do not object to any improvement – there has been constant improvement throughout history – but, gracefully, we remain connected to customs and traditions. Let's make them evolve to the extent necessary, but it's inconceivable for me to accept the breakup you're proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u129	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u130	Unfavorable opinion. Mr Breton, to listen to you, we should not change anything, lest one change bring another, then another and so on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u131	He's a conservative!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u132	We must also listen to the expectations of society, as many speakers have said in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u133	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u134	The importance of these issues in the public debate cannot be denied. The House must welcome the fact that this discussion is taking place, even if the deadlines, which are very limited, make it more difficult. In any case, these debates must take place, and denying it would be going back to history. I now come to the choice of organizing the reflection within a committee. We have solutions to imagine together, especially for the intended implementing texts. The committee will be essential to organise the follow-up of the measures and the reflection. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u135	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u136	Mr President, you are blaming Mr Breton for fearing that the changes you are proposing will lead to others. But you know perfectly well that it is a real break to prohibit, in the name of animal welfare, ancestral practices, while these show that, at all times, man has lived in harmony with nature. We cannot deny that man, if he is an animal on some sides, is not just that. He is capable, by his intelligence,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u137	And by his conscience!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u138	... to organize nature for its progress. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] We have asked farmers to feed the planet, that is, tomorrow, 7 to 9 billion people. Can you imagine that by banning, among other things, breeding, in the name of animal welfare, we can organize the livelihood of 9 billion people? This is, in fact, the heart of a debate that the remaining three-quarters of hours will not be enough to lead in good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u139	Whose fault?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u140	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u141	We obviously have no reluctance to improve the animal condition. In fact, long before this bill was submitted to us, many improvements have already been made, or have begun to be made...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u142	It can't be seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u143	... in many fields, by actors fully aware of societal expectations and contemporary developments in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u144	They deserve respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u145	It is true that these are important issues. However, it seems odd to have a committee "to monitor and monitor the implementation" of the main provisions of the text as early as Article 1e r.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u146	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u147	... whereas these, presented in the following articles, have obviously not yet been voted on, and the original wording of the text has been radically changed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, since it has found it useful to remove many provisions from it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In a country – France – where the number of standards imposed on breeders, already very high, is constantly increasing, one cannot be satisfied, in order to solve a problem as important as the one you raise, to open the debate with the creation of an umpteenth monitoring and evaluation committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u148	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u149	I absolutely do not deny the relevance of a debate on animal welfare. If I have tabled this amendment, it is by refusal of the committee provided for in section 1, "in charge of monitoring and monitoring the application of this Act".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u150	Of course! We keep creating new committees, and they cost money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u151	This role is not the responsibility of a committee! I agree with Mr Brindeau that the remaining forty-five minutes this evening will not be enough to get to the bottom of things. I have not yet had the opportunity to comment on the merits. I confess my embarrassment, because, on some points, I do not understand you. Some provisions are aimed at eradicating practices that are sometimes part of an ancestral culture, which you condemn, without consideration on a case-by-case basis. I am thinking in particular of the ban on wild animals in travelling circuses. Do you really think that all circuses mistreat their animals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u152	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u153	Would it not be better to provide better guidance, better regulation and, if necessary, to repress bad practices? You seem to me to miss out on the real problems, throwing reproach on everyone, even on those who put a point of honor to behave well. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] At the same time, the amendments I tabled to prohibit the grinding of live animals were considered inadmissible, on the grounds that their object was too far from the text – hence my embarrassment. Explain to me why the crushing of live animals does not concern animal abuse! For my part, it seems to me that grinding live animals is more problematic than locking a tiger in the cage of a travelling circus. Some here have tabled amendments to prohibit bullfighting; They've been removed, and that's so much better. If you have the right not to like this practice – I do not force anyone to attend – it is, however, an integral part of the culture of the southern taurine cities. [[Mrs Agnes Thill, as well as Messrs. Xavier Breton and Olivier Marleix applaud]] Finally, like Mr Benoit, I have tabled amendments to prohibit ritual slaughter. They were considered inadmissible, too, while they concerned far more animals than the few bulls who died valiantly in the arenas. Again, I do not oblige you to love the bullfight; Simply put, it is part of the ancestral culture of taurine cities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u154	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 7 and 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u155	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 94 Number of votes cast 88 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 24 Against 64
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u156	On Amendment No 89, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u157	It aims to re-establish the text in its original version, before it is unblocked by the deputies of the group of the Republic on the move, in the Committee on Economic Affairs: it provides for the creation of a fund to support the transition for animal welfare, in order to accompany both circus professionals who have to abandon wild animal shows and breeders who have to change their practices. In committee, it was decided to replace this fund, i.e. the funding provided, with a follow-up committee. This is the very demonstration of the refusal to give any ambition to this text. It is impossible to make a real transition without accompanying the victims of the necessary changes – since intensive breeding and wild animal shows in circuses must be stopped. In order for these developments to be accepted, we must provide the necessary financial resources to support farmers. They have been told for decades that livestock farming must be intensive and must be organized into factory farms, that it is good that three people manage the breeding of 6000 pigs within the same warehouse. This is the current reality of breeding, far from the ancestral farms where we lived under the same roof as the animals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u158	Come to the Cantal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u159	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] With industrialization, any other relationship than exploitation has disappeared between man and animal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u160	People used to starve! Don't talk about what you don't know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u161	We're not going to let the breeders get insulted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u162	If we are not able, in the National Assembly, to release funds to help farmers return to much more humane practices, we will have no credibility. If we want this text to have a chance of producing effects, we must therefore restore a fund with sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u164	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u166	This is a reflection that I make very regularly, as Secretary of State for Biodiversity. When the subjects are very cross-cutting – as is the case, as you have all pointed out, with this bill which concerns many themes and sectors of activity – when they come under different budget lines and ministries, one must maintain a form of flexibility, knowing that financial resources have already been provided. The Minister of Ecological Transition announced last week a minimum envelope of €8 million for the well-being of captive wildlife; Similarly, EUR 250 million of the appropriations provided for in the recovery plan will be able to finance the improvement of equipment in farms and slaughterhouses. Other funds can be made available in the appropriations for the conversion of those involved in the sectors affected by the measures we are discussing. Funding will therefore go through different budget lines and will cover different ministries. Let's keep this flexibility. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u167	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u168	The members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote in favour of the amendment. [[Smile]] As usual, we are told that there will be money everywhere, but when we get there, we see that there is nowhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u169	Give back the money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u170	I contest the hypocritical bill to support such a bill, without providing it with a minimum of means to help those who will be affected by its provisions – not to mention all those who will have to improve their installation and their working tool, to accompany the changes they have been planning and anticipating for many years. Public policy is needed in the long term; A dedicated fund would make it possible to secure and support the peasant world, undergoing these necessary transformations. We have therefore called for a public vote on this amendment, to which my group, I repeat, is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u171	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor for a point of order. On what basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u172	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is based on Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning the smooth running of our debates. Madam President, on the previous identical amendments you have left Mrs Ménard to speak much longer than two minutes, whereas, when I was defending my amendment, it was barely that time that you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u173	Are you questioning the presidency?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u174	Not at all. I ask you to check that the rule is the same for everyone: two minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u175	[[MM. Hervé Berville and Roland Lescure applaud]] Please don't go to this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u176	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u177	Mr. Lachaud told us about a dream past that I do not know, and that my ancestors did not know, in which the animals lived well in the stables, with the farmers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The time you're talking about, my grandfather lived it. Every time he tells me about it, he reminds me that then he didn't have anything to eat. The reality is that pre-World War II food farming did not allow everyone to eat properly, even though there were three times fewer humans. The subsequent developments were aimed at allowing all men to eat properly at a reasonable price, which was not the case in food farming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u178	That's still not the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u179	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u180	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Let's not go back to a dream past that never existed. Today, most humans, in any case in Western countries, have access to food at a reasonable price: it is also because we have made agricultural choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u181	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u182	[[Mr. Bastien Lachaud applauds]] I want to reassure our colleague Caroline Fiat and express to him, on behalf of the IDU and independent Group, our total solidarity and condemnation of anyone who puts pressure on a Member, whatever happens and whatever his position. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Mrs Fiat, I would have liked to hear the same indignation when some of our colleagues in the majority, faced with yellow vests or others, were assaulted, saw their cars fire or suffered intrusions at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u183	We have always condemned these practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u184	Everyone should be outraged, because no Member should ever be under any kind of pressure, whether physical or dematerialized. I wanted above all to tell you, in response to your previous intervention, that when we denounce search engines powered, promoted, financed by foreign powers or foreign economic interests,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u185	Oh, there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u186	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] ... from the United States or elsewhere, who are trying to influence the National Assembly, I would be surprised if France was not outraged by these processes and I would like, as my colleague Pascal Brindeau pointed out, not to pretend that it is citizens who express themselves. As far as the substantive debate is concerned, I have a simple conviction: the human species does not have a vocation to disappear behind nature and cannot live without making nature live. Since the dawn of time, the human species has tried to adapt to natural evolution and used nature to survive, like all other species. Madam Secretary of State, we will not have time to discuss the whole text and it seems to me that the debate is biased: you are in charge of an essential subject, that of biodiversity; As for animal welfare, put forward by our colleague Villani, it is shared, I think, on all benches. But the two cannot be disconnected from each other. What surprises me, or rather what would disappoint me, is that the Government is not taking its responsibilities. [[Applause on several benches of the IDU-I and LT groups]] The successive interventions, including that of my colleague Thierry Benoit, have shown this: why mink and why cows? Why such a species and not such another? It is man's relationship to nature and nature to man that is laid down. As one of our colleagues has pointed out very well, it requires a more comprehensive reflection than the proposed legislation will allow us to deal with in three quarters of an hour. I would like the Government, instead of simply accepting a bill, to initiate this comprehensive reflection. This is the role of the state: to propose a strategy and take the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u187	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u188	I cannot allow the House to say, as I have heard, that there would be no longer any relationship between the farmer and his animals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u189	Yes, operating relationships.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u190	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It's giving in to the ease of caricature. I invite our colleague to come to Cantal, where my colleague Jean-Yves Bony is a breeder: you will see agricultural demonstrations where the breeders present their animals, happy animals. They have the eyes that shine, they are proud to present them, even if the purpose of the breeding is to provide, in fine, meat. Don't give in to the caricature. Breeders love their animals; hunters also love their animals, they love their dogs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u191	I put to the vote Amendment No 89.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u192	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 85 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 28 Against 57
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u193	On Article 1, I am seized by the independent UDI Group of an application for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Does anyone want to speak before the election? Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u194	When you are a breeder, Mr. Lachaud, you love your animals and you love your land. The farmer and the farmer live with nature, shape it; If there is still some biodiversity left in this country, it is thanks to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u195	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u196	[[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] The amalgam you're making is unbearable. Get out of your circle. I invite you to come to the Cantal to visit our farms: there you will see the difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u197	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u198	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] My colleagues will have misunderstood my point. I was talking about situations comparable to the farm where the L214 association revealed images this morning, at this farm – can we still talk about a farm? – at this factory where 6000 pigs and only three employees are located to look after them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u199	That's one example!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u200	Have the images been checked?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u201	Can we really talk about the connection between these three employees and their 6000 pigs? Can we really talk about breeding? No. It is an industry that distorts man's relationship with nature. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are intellectually honest, you cannot say that these people are breeders. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] When we denounce intensive farming, we aim at these factory farms that lower the prices of agricultural production and lead to farmer suicide every two days. Is this an acceptable situation for farmers and farmers? No. We must put an end to the exploitation of nature by the man who destroys everything, including the lives of farmers and farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u202	Every time, you become caricatural again...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u203	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u204	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR Group and on the benches of non-registered Members]] I would like to speak to colleagues in the Republican Group and to those, even more right-wing, who have been using parliamentary obstruction techniques since this morning by tabling deletion amendments, sometimes defended in the same way. [[Same movements]] You are well aware that parliamentary niches are an opportunity to allow debates to take place differently. The progress we have proposed on animal welfare, a text for which there are only 20 minutes left, but also on family leave or the reception of refugees, is necessary, and they will be made: parliamentary obstruction will not change anything. We give you an appointment on the day of your parliamentary niche, 3 December.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u205	We only heard you until seven o'clock! You are responsible for this, and for the order of the texts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u206	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u207	I fully understand your frustration, dear colleague and chairman of the Ecology, Democracy and Solidarity Group. But it is first of all the way to debate in the National Assembly, which means that you, like us, have only one niche per year, which is scandalous. That is what should be changed for all groups. As we spend weeks and weeks in pseudo-controls that are useless, because we have no way of controlling, now that you open a debate, we do not have time to pursue it, even though it is essential. As I have already pointed out, this debate should be resumed by the Government, not to steal its copyright, but because it affects the human report to nature. We need nature to live, and we are destroying it too quickly, sometimes indecently, while we also need to exploit it. We must not oppose those who are geographically distant from nature, but are sentimentally close to it, and those who allow us to live there, those who raise the animals we eat – we still have the right to do so – or who, growing crops, must do so in the best possible conditions to preserve the earth. Unfortunately, the debate will be caricatural tonight, and I regret once again, Madam Secretary of State, that you did not want to answer us: does the Government have the will to propose to the National Assembly an important reflection on the subject? This is the role of the State, more than that of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u208	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u209	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 94 Number of votes cast 87 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 63 Against 24
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u210	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u211	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and EDS Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] On behalf of the independent IDU Group, I ask for a five-minute suspension of the sitting. It was twenty-three forty hours ago, and Mr.Orphelin seemed to complain to some Members of Parliament that he had conducted an in-depth debate on a very important text, which had given satisfaction to the authors of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u212	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u213	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u214	Mr Cédric Villani, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u215	I don't know what to think of this day. We have seen how much debate lasted this morning and this afternoon...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u216	Whose fault is it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u217	[[Applause on the benches of the EDS group and on some benches of the LaREM group – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] ... and all strings used for this purpose: reminders to the Rules of Procedure or multiple positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, let the rapporteur speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u219	Thank you, Madam President. This evening, in two hours of parliamentary work, we have succeeded in adopting a single article, a rather unoffensive article, which refers to the creation of a committee, which has emerged from the work of the committee, in the eyes of associations and individuals for whom this subject counts. However, as part of the review of this article, what did we attend? To debates between supporters and detractors of breeding. Ladies and gentlemen, have you really read this bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u220	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u221	You have mentioned topics as varied as the end of breeding – where does the text speak about it? – ritual slaughter or grinding of chicks, about an article providing for the creation of a committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u222	We're talking about animal condition, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u223	[[Applause on the benches of the EDS group and some benches of the LaREM group – Exclaims on the benches of the LR and IUD-I groups]] To talk about the animal condition, we have to deal with the articles one by one. But what image of efficiency do we give to society, which is waiting for Parliament to debate in an educated way?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u224	Colleagues, please calm down.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u225	It is clear that we will not be able to vote on this text...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u226	[[Rires on the benches of the LR group]] You're obstructing me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u227	... since at midnight, in the same way as Cinderella's carriage becomes pumpkin again, the bill will disappear, for now...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u228	Until the next niche!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u229	...waiting for a next niche or a gesture from the majority. In any case, there will be no adoption this time. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would therefore like to answer a few arguments which have been put forward: is this text a form of contempt for humanity, as I have heard?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u230	That is what you said, colleagues in the Republican Group!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u231	Mr rapporteur, you have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u232	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] I am speaking as rapporteur, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u233	You are nevertheless held at two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u234	Madam President, let him speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u235	Please calm down, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u236	He had time for general discussion and he did not use it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u237	Far from the fears that one may have about how the debate could be taken hostage by financial interests of multinationals...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u238	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u239	... the issue addressed goes back a long way in our philosophical and humanistic history. It was defended by great names: Saint Francis of Assisi, who was rightly evoked, Montaigne, Voltaire, Victor Hugo, Louise Michel, Elisha Reclus, Marguerite Yourcenar, Charles Péguy and many others. The text is anchored in the depths of our humanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u240	The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must be respected! The rapporteur did not want to speak during the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u241	Mr. Brindeau, you complimented me on thinking that I was sincere; I'll return it to you, but you have to be able to say things.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u242	The rapporteur's speaking time is not unlimited; I'm asking you to close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u243	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and IDU-I groups]] Why don't we have an unlimited platform?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u244	This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u245	Mr. Brindeau, please calm down. The meeting will be adjourned in five minutes. Mr. rapporteur, come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u246	The meeting is over, but I'll say it. I will never have a word against the breeders, quite the contrary. Let it be said in this forum that they are not paid enough, not sufficiently valued and not sufficiently accompanied. Let it be said in this rostrum that of the 100 euros spent in the agri-food industry, only 6 or 7 are spent by farmers or farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u247	It's not in the text, there's nothing about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u248	[["No! » on the benches of the LR group]] It is in the report, as I have said on several occasions, particularly in committee, where you were sitting, ladies and gentlemen. If we do not accompany the channels, if we do not jointly define a society project, we will never get out of the dialogue of the deaf.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u249	I would ask you to conclude, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u250	170 years ago, the first animal welfare law was passed here. General de Grammont, Bonapiste, presented a bill to combat the violence against horses, unexpectedly supported by the left, in the person of Victor Schœlcher – it was not annoyed. It was an unexpected transpartisan alliance, in a very agitated context – it is very interesting to reread the debates. At the time, this alliance had made it possible to have the first animal welfare law passed here. In the last few hours, while listening to the debates, I have regretted that we have not recovered this 1850 state of mind, which has allowed Members to discuss with each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u251	You had the floor for six minutes; We must now conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u252	[[Applause on the benches of the EDS group and on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Actir ens]] [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, LaREM, FI and Activité ens groups]] I count on the Government to put on the agenda, as soon as possible, this text, which has emerged from the work in committee and deserves to continue to live. If this assembly remains too prisoner of its constraints, it will find it difficult to convince society that it can follow it in its expectations of societal evolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u253	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u254	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, EDS and Agir ens groups]] Tonight, we measured the importance of this subject, as well as the passion that emerges from it. You have all echoed the expectations of our fellow citizens. These reflections must continue, and the Government has fully measured this tonight; It will endeavour to accompany them, with a large majority of Members calling for this debate to take place in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u255	In accordance with Rule 50(4) of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the evening sitting shall end at midnight, I shall adjourn the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1013.u256	Next sitting, Monday, 12 October 2020, at 16:00: Discussion of the first part of the 2021 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
