ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u1	The next item is the question to the Government. I remind you of the derogatory rules governing the organization of our questions to the Government: due to the health crisis, there are only a limited number of members of the Government and, in addition to the group chairmen or their representative, only the deputies responsible for the questions; the questions with the same theme are grouped together, each of which is the subject of a specific answer; the number of questions is reduced. On the other hand, speaking times are the usual time: two minutes per question and as much by answer, replicas and counter-replics, if any. In order to minimize the number of staff present, I would also remind you that the list of speakers, of which you have been aware, is not displayed during the meeting. Finally, the health rules that have become customary continue to apply: cleaning up the hemicycle before and after each session and microphones during the session, with speakers being asked not to put their hands on the microphones and to use different microphones; respect for distance between participants; staggered entrances and exits. We begin our session with questions about the Covid-19 crisis in general, particularly on the topic of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u2	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u3	Prime Minister, the announcement by the President of the Republic of the beginning of the deconfinement on 11 May caused both excitement and anxiety among our fellow citizens. Excitation to finally see the end of the tunnel of the house arrest. Angoisse as to the feeling of unpreparation for the days after. It must be recognized that, with regard to excitement, you have dubbed all the ardour with the words of realism that characterize you. It was a good thing, because we could not let the French believe that they would resume, in three weeks' time, the normal course of their previous life. But as far as anxiety is concerned, I fear that it will continue to grow. By multiplying questions and assumptions, the Government seems to be playing with the nerves of our compatriots. To restart, the country needs to feel confident. However, the health breakdown is still a large text with holes. With less than 1% of the population tested, we continue to lag behind European countries in this area. Massive testing is necessary, however, for selective containment of people at risk and for the application of a possible technological device for mapping the epidemic. Will the tests be available and for whom will they be available? In addition to the vagueness that characterizes screening, there is a strong expectation on health prevention guidelines, particularly on the doctrine of wearing a protective mask. Will masks be mandatory? Where will they be? In transportation? In schools? What types of masks will be prescribed? Health degradation is the prerequisite for economic and social decoupling. Companies and local and regional authorities expect simple and co-built instructions as close as possible to the land, territory by territory. To restore confidence, the state must quickly put an end to bureaucratic issues and finally write the recovery scenario. Prime Minister, this is no longer the time to be mysterious. Economically, socially, politically, France indicates: "weak battery". It does not need new and exhausting questions. She needs answers to live again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u4	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u5	You are right: in the period we are living, trust is fundamental. This is true for the French in general, and more particularly for hospital care workers. I therefore invite everyone, in their own way and beyond political differences, to participate in restoring confidence to the French during this difficult period. I can understand your impatience, like that of the French who legitimately wonder about the conditions under which deconfination will be gradually achieved. The Prime Minister has said this on several occasions: in order not to risk a trial in unrepair, the Government must take the time to properly prepare this stage. We are facing – I know you will agree – an unprecedented and unprecedented emergency that our country is experiencing, as is the vast majority of the world's countries. In this context, we must be humble and modest and make decisions only when we are able to solidly support them with scientific recommendations. Test policy; use and distribution of masks; function of local elected officials – their role, which can only be major, will be defined in the next few days: all this is part of the strategy of deconfining that the President of the Republic has asked the Prime Minister and the Government to elaborate. I would remind you that from May 11, we will have to and will be able to test anyone with symptoms or who has been in contact with a sick person, in order to isolate and treat them. We will pay attention to all the territories of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u6	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u7	This question, which I have the honour to ask on behalf of my colleague Philippe Berta, is addressed to the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation. Health research is now demonstrating its importance: in the war against Covid-19, your ministry and the scientific community are heavily mobilized. Thanks to exceptional funding, the mode of action of the virus is now better known, diagnostics are improving and multiple treatments and vaccines are being evaluated, in France, in Europe and elsewhere. Thanks to the committee of analysis, research and expertise – CARE –, the REACTing consortium and the Discovery trial! Time must therefore be left to science, a science based on rigour, far from science spectacle. Scientists must be given a greater place: some of them have been able to brave administrative barriers to convert their laboratories into diagnostic centres. It is in fact the creation of a "scientific reserve". In fact, outside the minority working in the Covid-19 research centres, thousands of scientists, spread out in many French cities, are able to design sophisticated tests to participate in out-of-diagnostic combat in hospitals. They have PCR and sequencing equipment, listed by the plan "France médecine genomics 2025", reagents and protections, and they know the barrier measures, which are part of their daily lives. Philippe Sansonetti, who made this proposal, was joined by academicians such as MM. Rossier, Karsenti, Bockaert and Weissenbach. The common life with the virus that will be our lot in the coming months does not, it seems to me, allow us to deprive ourselves of this tremendous potential. The Government has been able to put in place funding and scientific governance to deal with the health crisis. Research actors have been able to mobilize themselves with inventiveness. How can we optimize the junction between these two wills to reveal the full potential of our scientific reserve?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u8	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u9	As you have pointed out, scientists, in research organisations, universities and hospitals, are fully mobilized, with all the public authorities, against the Covid-19 epidemic. French research, because it has long distinguished itself in virology and infectiology, is the subject of special expectations on the part of our fellow citizens and our European and international partners. More than a hundred teams and a few thousand researchers are working directly on Covid-19, with a view to better understanding the disease, imagining vaccine routes and curbing the spread of the virus. Let me pay tribute to their dedication and hard work. The Government as a whole supports the involvement of researchers from CARE, REACTing and the National Research Agency, ANR. A specific €50 million fund has been made available to support each initiative. But if researchers already have a crucial role to play against the virus, their place will be just as important when the containment is phased out. The private academic, veterinary and biological laboratories, which are a remarkable territorial network, will be able to help us organize the screening operations of our fellow citizens. This work has already begun: laboratories across the country partner with CHUs to carry out diagnostic tests; they lend them their devices and their reagents. Beyond that, we are mobilizing the scientific community to develop epidemiological tests that can be carried out as part of the removal of containment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u10	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u11	Since the announcement of April 13th, the debunking has been in all heads. D-Day is May 11, that is, in twenty days. Time's running out! We wish for the success of the deconfinement, but it will require an additional effort. An effort of clarity, proximity and solidarity. Clarity is not on the rendezvous on masks, opening schools, tests or activities allowed to resume. It is becoming urgent to know whether it will be mandatory to wear a "general public" mask elsewhere than in transportation. The mask controls are now. Finding a supplier and incuring expenses – which will be far from negligible – is now. Local authorities want to be set up. Besides, you don't open a school with a slamming of your fingers. It's getting ready. Staff must be mobilized, classrooms must be set up to meet sanitary requirements, equipment must be ordered, markets must be restarted to supply canteens or school transport, and parents must be informed. Are the announcements made this morning by the Minister of National Education and Youth firm and definitive? The meshing of the territory is an indispensable element for testing. The number of tests counts, and being able to access them, no matter where you live, is crucial. Finally, for local businesses, many of which will find it difficult to recover from confinement, time is also running out. Reconstitute inventory and review store layout is not improvising. And, please, avoid favouring large areas at the expense of small shops! That's for clarity. More proximity means, as you said, relying on the mayors, who have been remarkable in agility and efficiency since the beginning of the crisis. You have to trust them! Setting the course and setting a framework is your responsibility, but let them develop local deconfining plans, in conjunction with the prefects, adapted to the realities of the terrain. Finally, there is solidarity. Prime Minister, the little music of the need for employees to renounce their rights and to work even more must stop, especially when the rent seems to escape the sacrifice requested. The crisis will be costly, and you would be well inspired to establish a contribution of solidarity, paid by the most fortunate. More clarity, more proximity and more solidarity, that's the triptych winning deconfinement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u12	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u13	You're right, we have to get answers. They must be brought early, because the expectations of the French, economic actors, traders and teachers are great. Our method is to carry out very broad consultations and to work hard, from evening to morning and from morning to evening, on each theme. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have been thinking about the questions that you have just asked, first of all in the logic of containment, now in the logic of lifting it. We have exchanged several times by videoconference on the place of local elected officials and mayors in the deconfination, after the important role they have already played during the confinement. We reflect on their role in the distribution of "general public" masks or in adapting decisions to local particularities. Prefects and mayors were able, where necessary, to take stricter containment measures up to curfew. We share your sensitivity to taking into account the situation of small traders in relation to large areas, but all decisions of the Government will be inspired only by the objective of the health, protection and safety of the French. No decision will be taken to favour any sector, since it would have an adverse impact on the health of the French. This is the logic at the heart of the containment lifting project that the Prime Minister will present in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u14	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u15	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. She's wearing masks. As regards the management of masks reserved for health professionals, a modus operandi providing for distribution by the various operators was found. Its extension to other professions depending on the stock available is a good thing. Now, the expectation – the President of the Republic having referred to the possibility of a deconfination by 11 May – is about the Government's plan for masks offering an alternative solution, known as "general public", which can be disposable or reusable. This plan will have to answer several questions. Incentive or obligation? If obligation: for everyone? Constantly? What about schools? Minister, whatever your answer, we can see that there will be a great need, past the so-called "start-up" distribution carried out by the local authorities. "We're going to have to learn to live with the virus," said the Prime Minister, "for a long time." For the time being, let us welcome the solidarity, ingenuity and initiative shown by volunteers, associations, industries and local and regional authorities in order to make masks, obtain and distribute them. From now on, distribution channels must be determined in advance. All will be needed, including pharmacists, who are always prohibited from selling masks other than FFP2 masks and surgical masks, reserved for health professionals. Their disarray and incomprehension are proportional to their engagement with you since the beginning of the crisis. In order for everyone to obtain masks, our group proposes to fix – as has been done for the hydro-alcoholic gel – a state price, to quota their distribution, if necessary, through the shared medical record – DMP – and to refund – on prescription – masks acquired by people with long-term illness, as well as by the beneficiaries of universal disease protection – PUMA – in the interests of solidarity. Other questions arise. What about the responsibility of volunteers who have manufactured masks that may not comply with AFNOR? How can we protect them? What about the collection of masks, which are not waste like the others? It will have to be organised with a view to their possible recycling, which seems possible and necessary. Minister, these questions require answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u16	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u17	Mrs Firmin Le Bodo, thank you for giving me the opportunity to welcome the decisive and determined action of pharmacists, since the first day, in our fight against the virus. I remember then calling the President of the College of Pharmacists, saying, "We will need you. We will need the territorial network of pharmacies to distribute protective masks free of charge to caregivers, home helpers, vulnerable people and the sick. The situation will be complex; we will have to deal with tensions on stocks; logistics will be complex. And, in fine, we will ask you to give the masks." The President of the College of Pharmacists replied: "Minister, we will be at the meeting." Since the first day, pharmacists have been on the rendezvous. I take note, at the time of approaching the lifting of the confinement, of their totally legitimate request to continue to play their fundamental role as providers of care in the territories, with regard to the masks from the State stock, which are delivered free of charge to caregivers, and which will be delivered tomorrow to vulnerable people as well as to the sick, as well as to the general public masks – I prefer this designation, Mrs Firmin Le Bodo – whose distribution will require the use of all the forces living in the nation – probably even businesses and large areas, in addition to pharmacies. It is important – you are right to remind him – not to confuse the masks that we wanted to submit to standards with others. Only the former are protective, because they allow filtering virus-carrying particles, with a protection rate of 70% for some, more than 90% for others. France being France, the overwhelming majority of consumer masks provide 90% filtration, and are therefore of interest to be protective. Others, fruit of good will, do not offer all the guarantees of protection, because they do not filter small particles, and thus fail to prevent the virus from entering or leaving the body. That is the issue before us. Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo, we will count on your group to support us, support us and guide us in the way masks are distributed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u18	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u19	Prime Minister, the coronavirus killed more than 20,000 men and women. Let's have a thought for them. This requires that all persons with responsibilities should be on board, starting with the Government. You have succeeded – or are in the process of succeeding – in implementing a containment strategy; We must succeed in the deconfinement. As many of our colleagues have pointed out, the first question concerns masks. You have to tell the French simply. Who's gonna have to protect himself? How do we fill the gap between French production – even if it increases – and what we import? Do we have any insurance? As indicated by Agnes Firmin Le Bodo, it is necessary to set standards, regulate prices and provide for a distribution network – pharmacists, local authorities or consular chambers. In this regard, we must be clear. The second question was asked by Olivier Véran, whose opinion I share: we are waiting for serology. When will our techniques be ready? When will those assessed in a five-week comparative evaluation be operational? Do we have the necessary reagents? Prime Minister, I do not want to relive what I experienced in 1983 with AIDS. It is essential that we be able to offer serology treatment to those who have been affected, as long as we know that animals that have contracted coronavirus are immune. Finally, you made a good decision on Sunday night, aimed at breaking the isolation of individuals wherever they are, especially in EHPAD – a residential institution for dependent elderly people. I ask you to ensure that physiotherapists, speech therapists, orthoptists and psychologists can also visit the people concerned. Sliding syndromes are in front of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u20	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u21	President Vigier, you introduced your question with a thought for the more than 20,000 men and women who died in France of Covid-19 disease. I associate myself with this by adding a message of encouragement, which I know you share, to those who, in the hospital, are fighting against this disease, assisted and accompanied by women and men with remarkable dedication and skills. Twenty thousand French and French people were killed by this virus. This means that many of us deplore the deaths of people very close to them. In these times when the way we say goodbye to those close to us is necessarily imperfect, and made even more difficult by certain regulations, messages of friendship for those who experience such pain matter. Your question raises three questions, which I will try to answer as clearly as possible. As for masks, you ask me when it will be recommended, necessary or mandatory to wear them, and what types they will be. Let us remember what is clear: FFP2 masks and surgical masks are intended as a priority and in the long term for caregivers and patients. The term "caregiver" must be taken in its broadest sense, which was not the case at the beginning of the epidemic, because of our concern that the number of people working in hospitals should be sufficient. As our imports and domestic production have increased, our objective is to ensure that access to surgical masks is guaranteed not only to hospital staff and city medical practitioners, but also to those who accompany vulnerable and fragile people, in the context of home-based services or in medical-social institutions. For others, our goal is to ensure that they have access to high-performance consumer masks. Normized and certified, they correspond to a high level of requirement. They are produced by the French textile industry or purchased abroad by major importers, so that we quickly have the necessary volume to equip anyone who wants or needs to wear them. Since these masks are washable under certain conditions – sometimes several times, if not many times – they will allow us to equip our fellow citizens in the long term. Their doctrine of usage is being developed, not by the Government – you may well believe it, Mr Vigier – but by the health authorities. As I have had the opportunity to indicate, it is already possible to identify cases where wearing the mask is likely to be mandatory, such as the use of public transport. It is well understood that, in a metro station, in Paris, Lille or elsewhere, population density can be such – even by limiting access – that it is necessary to make the wearing of the mask mandatory. The second question you are asking is serology. Tests exist; some companies located abroad, in Asia, the United States or Europe, produce and sell them. Many national authorities have purchased them. But you know, like me, President Vigier, that they have shown certain limits, some of which are worrying. If the reading of a test shows a failure rate of 40% – which means that, almost every other time, the testee is told a result that is not true – the level of uncertainty becomes such that it would probably be a very bad idea to design a public health policy based on its use! Scientists – the head of government is not able to do so – must therefore be able to establish the specificity and sensitivity of each test. If they are effective, we must also be able to produce them in sufficient numbers to be used within the framework of a doctrine. Common sense demands it. So we do this, especially with the French tests – but if there are very good tests abroad, we will buy them: the problem is not their origin, but their effectiveness. That being said, not everything is said, Mr. President Vigier. Although some studies suggest that, among animals, immunological protection may result from contact with the virus, many scientists – not myself, I am obliged to take into account what is said – draw attention to the real uncertainty in which we are, with regard to the Covid -19 virus, when it comes to determining whether the presence of antibodies determines immunization or whether, on the contrary, as is the case with certain diseases – dengue for example – it facilitates infection instead of blocking it. There is absolutely considerable uncertainty here. I can't help it. It's a fact. She's here. As long as we do not know what is determined by the presence of the virus, the use of serological tests does not have the same value at all and does not have the same value at all as if we knew it. It is up to us to make decisions with considerable, so to speak, uncertainty factors. We do so on the basis of science, to the greatest extent possible, which is indispensable. The third question you are asking is about EHPADs. I announced on Sunday, together with the Minister for Solidarity and Health, certain measures with immediate effect to reorganise visits there, under very strict conditions of health security, limiting the number of people and their physical proximity to the elderly. Compliance with these necessary protective measures will restore contact between families and those who are housed in EHPADs. What is true of family contact will be true as time goes on for professional contacts, not for doctors – they already have a course – but for caregivers whose specialties you have recalled. We must do this gradually, respecting very strict safety rules. We have to do this, because sliding syndromes are multiplying. Containment in a single room, for a person who is disoriented, sometimes affected by Alzheimer's disease or other pathologies, in any case in a situation of dependency – that is the reason why she lives in an EHPAD – causes rather widespread slip syndromes, in collective structures as well as at home – in individual housing and in households. We are concerned about this development. She worries the professionals who know the sector. Ways must therefore be found to ensure the health security of the most vulnerable without condemning them to complete isolation. This is a formidable equation. We need to find a way to solve it. I am confident that with the measure on EHPAD that we have announced, combined with the solidarity measures taken, in particular, by the municipalities within the framework of the communal centres for social action, which are doing remarkable work, and with the resumption of contact between doctors or municipalities and the elderly, we are able to avoid, as far as possible, the increase in the number of sliding syndromes. That is the issue before us. This is a public health issue – even more so, a human issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u22	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u23	President Macron's announcement of the beginning of a debunking on May 11 was welcomed with relief by many, as the containment is heavy and difficult to bear, especially for the most precarious. It also raised questions, which the vagueness and cacophony of government explanations quickly turned into concerns. Why on May 11th? On what opinions, what scientific projections are based on this date? You have confessed, Prime Minister, not to dispose of it; the date was therefore decided without them. Should we then think that it is above all the will to remain competitive, whatever the cost, that has determined it? The same errors that have led to a breach of containment seem to govern the choice of the date of a hazardous definity. Once again you take things backwards: having not anticipated the arrival of the virus, you have contained it in haste; Having not stored enough masks for everyone, you said they were useless. May 11 should be the result of a process, a projection; You make it the starting point of a retrocalendar. Defining is necessary; It must also be systematically planned to ensure the health protection and safety of the entire population. Your plan, on which we will have to decide, must be rigorous and consistent so that we can vote with full knowledge. How are you going to ensure the protection of the entire population, when not all staff in essential sectors are even protected? What are the results of urgent epidemiological investigations into children's contagiosity? Have you assessed the need for tests – which must be massive – in masks – that must be free for all caregivers but also for the rest of the population – in hydro-alcoholic gels – that will have to be present in all public places and workplaces? How will you multiply the means to meet these needs: requisitions, nationalizations? We expect detailed answers before the debate. That will depend on our vote, on the confidence of the people, but also and above all on your ability to ensure the health protection and safety of the country. We sincerely hope, for all of us, that this time you will succeed; In any case, we have and will have proposals to make.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u24	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u25	You're saying we couldn't anticipate the arrival of the virus. But the very nature of an epidemic, the result of a virus that emerges at the end of the world, is that it does not prevent! I know you know that. No country in the world has been able to anticipate what has happened for several months now. France has nevertheless pursued an extremely interventionist policy in the first few days. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Should I remind you of what happened at Contamines-Montjoie? We are then at the beginning of February: there is no epidemic in France, or elsewhere in Italy and Europe; We're talking about an emerging virus that has done damage in China and led that country to shut down an entire part of its territory. In Contamines-Montjoie, two or three English tourists, ill, are detected, because doctors have had the idea – and we must thank them for that. These doctors warn the health authorities; the regional health agency immediately delegated on the spot a team from the health reserve. It has carried out 140 surveys, closed schools and confined part of the population, while offering psychological support. Five patients received a positive diagnosis; They were hospitalized in three reference university hospital centres – CHU – in dedicated units, and the epidemic stopped there. To say that we didn't know how to anticipate, so it's a little loud!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u26	Tell that to Mrs. Buzyn!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u27	On the other hand, it can be said that the strength of this epidemic wave, which extends over Europe and the world, has taken all the countries of the world without it: the very nature of such a phenomenon is to be new, and to require equally new means. We, like most of our neighbours, do everything we can to protect our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u28	You're not answering my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u29	It is an objective that is shared by all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u30	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u31	I hear you have concrete proposals to make; I'll be happy to study them with you if you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u32	You didn't answer me! It inspires confidence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u33	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u34	I am asking this question on behalf of the ultramarine Members of the GDR Group. Early containment in the overseas areas has prevented the spread of Covid-19, and according to the Prime Minister, the epidemic "seems to be under control." But the situation remains fragile, and vigilance is all the more important because, in its opinion of 8 April, the Scientific Council has not ruled out the risk of worsening. That is why the ultramarine MPs of the GDR Group are particularly careful that the reopening of schools fulfils the conditions necessary to protect children, staff and parents and, ultimately, prevent the formation of transmission chains of the virus. In addition to ensuring that barrier actions can be respected in and around schools, our colleagues are asking the Government about everyone's access to protective masks, the isolation structures of people tested positive, and the hospital capacity in resuscitation. They also wished to know whether screening, as the cornerstone of the mechanism for combating the epidemic, would be applied rapidly and massively in their territories. Geographical distance, the frequency of co-morbidities, the dengue epidemic in Réunion and Guyana, water cuts in Martinique obviously affect these issues by a coefficient of urgency and gravity. Entry into the decoupling process will depend on the responses provided by May 11. But, sharing the objective of combining health security and equal opportunities, our colleagues would like to see the abolition of posts planned in their academies for 2020 already cancelled. The Social Position Index, established by the Ministry of National Education from the parental profession, and which the epidemic crisis has had to further degrade, also calls for this, and very probably even for the creation of posts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u35	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u36	With regard to the overseas decoupling in school matters, we are in the process of developing hypotheses with the associations of elected representatives. One of the major points highlighted by the President of the Republic, as well as by the Prime Minister last Sunday, is that we must be able to create territorial differentiation: analysis of the territory-by-territory epidemic can play on our way of conceiving definity. The impact of confinement on the widening of social differences is greater overseas: school drop-out reaches 15% to 25%, compared with 4% in metropolitan France. It is important to keep these figures in mind, and to organize a deconfination in the most proactive way possible to put an end to these problems of increasing inequality. As far as preparation for the start of the school year is concerned, posts will be created, as you know, in Mayotte and Guyana, for demographic reasons; These departments are even among the best staffed in new posts. At the Meeting, posts will also be established. In Martinique and Guadeloupe, the situation is different, but before the start of the crisis, we have reworked the school card: it will be the departments that will have the best supervision rate in France at the beginning of the year. Of course, we will take into account the consequences of the crisis in preparing for the new school year, as we must look for the most difficult students. I would like to reassure you that I pay the utmost attention to the situation in the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u37	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u38	I would like to associate my colleague Monique Limon with my questions. Mr Minister of Solidarity and Health, at your press conference on Sunday, 19 April, you spoke at length about the situation of our elders in this health crisis, to which they are paying a heavy price. Confinement is particularly difficult for them: for those who reside in EHPAD, with the setting up of the "blue plan" suspending visits and then with individual confinement, but also for those who are at home, and who are at great risk of social isolation. During this health crisis, we were able to see the many impulses of solidarity of our fellow citizens, as well as the unwavering commitment and dedication of older professionals. I want to thank them warmly here. Will they be like hospital staff? You have ruled out the scenario of a breakdown by age group, and I thank you for it: it could have been very badly lived and harmful to many people. However, this decision will have to be accompanied, as you have said, by increased individual accountability, in particular through the constant maintenance of barrier actions. How can we accompany this movement? You have also announced measures to preserve and promote home care, and you have opened up the possibility of organizing family visits in EHPADs under very strict conditions. Minister, to support and secure all these measures, in the EHPADs and at home, what will be the Covid-19 screening strategy for our seniors? What will be the doctrine for the distribution of personal protective equipment? Will paramedical professionals be able to return to the elderly in EHPAD and at home, and under what conditions? Minister, while this crisis has confirmed many of the findings already made, how do you envisage further reflections on older age and autonomy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u39	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u40	I know, Madam Member, your long-standing commitment to thinking about ageing and loss of autonomy; Christelle Dubos, Secretary of State, and myself, are also passionate about these topics. We have worked hard first of all to offer protection solutions adapted to the most vulnerable public, our seniors, and especially those who are losing their autonomy, whether they live in EHPAD or at home, and now to remove certain constraints, always in full respect for the health of these people, to avoid any risk of transmission of the virus: we must think with humanity and understand that the situations experienced today by some elderly people are not tolerable in the long term. We all have in mind these images of grandfathers, grandmothers, already cabosed, weakened by life, alone in their room, unable to see their families and sometimes even have meals in common with others. It's about protecting them, of course: we know the considerable damage that the Covid-19 can do when he enters an EHPAD. The development of digital technology in a large majority of EHPADs has enabled the use of video conferencing; Families will now be able, under the responsibility of school directors, to see their relatives. They will not be able to touch them, but it will already be much more human, more real. EHPAD staff have been admirable, and they must be supported. Some have even made the choice not to go home at night, and to confide with the residents, so as not to take the risk of bringing the virus into the establishment. They must all be thanked, as was done in the hospital; discussions are under way. Last week, the Prime Minister exchanged for more than two hours with all the federations of the home help sector and the EHPADs. We're going to make it. These personnel deserve our gratitude, as they deserve the attention you give them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u41	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u42	We all know the importance of school and education for a country: importance for youth, of course, because education is the foundation of a lifetime; It is also important for a whole society, because our economic rhythms are dependent on school rhythms. The period of crisis that we are experiencing reminds us of this crucial mission of education. For more than a month now, our school has been in confinement. Welcome the remarkable commitment of teachers to maintain the link with students, so that the work of acquiring knowledge can continue; We also welcome the efforts of parents and families. In his last address, the President of the Republic announced the reopening of schools on 11 May. Since then, the Government has been considering how this return to school could take place. This morning, Mr Minister of National Education, you have given some suggestions to the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, particularly as regards the timetable. Many issues remain outstanding. First of all, will the conditions for the safe reception of pupils, teachers and all staff be met? Will the use of masks be required? Will tests be carried out, and how? How can we ensure that the barriers and social distancing are respected by primary school students, who are the least inclined to practise them, and who should be the first to return? With regard to pedagogical issues, how will a teacher's work be organized when his class is split, and that he must provide both classroom and distance education? What will become of teachers and staff suffering from a pathology at risk, and that it will be difficult, if not impossible, to replace? What will become of the students who were so far accompanied by AESHs – assistants to students with disabilities? There are still other questions about the many services related to the school. How will school transport be reorganized? What about boarding schools? What school catering can be offered? Who will provide extracurricular, sports and cultural activities? These many questions call for clear, precise and quick answers, as the implementation of the decisions taken will require enormous work in all schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u43	The Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u44	Mr Breton, your question is about the essential subject of the countdown until May, when schools, colleges and high schools defunct. This very morning, at the meeting of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education – which lasted more than two hours – I have already given you several points of answer, which can be easily consulted. I have made assumptions that are intended to be discussed with local authorities, associations of local elected representatives, trade union organizations in the framework of a social dialogue currently very in depth, the federations of parents of pupils and the National Council for High School Life. These discussions allow us to move forward and define each of the points by 11 May. It is very important that this reflection takes place in a climate of national unity because we must reassure ourselves. To this end, a health protocol will be drawn up in line with the health doctrine that the Prime Minister will specify when presenting the entire deconfining plan. Each of the points you mentioned – boarding school, canteen, school transportation – will have been dealt with and will be written in writing. Respect for the health protocol is the sine qua non for students to return to school. If the conditions are not met, the school or school does not open – it is very clear. On the other hand, according to the assumptions I presented this morning, the return to school will be gradual, in particular in order to be able to form the half-groups necessary to comply with the rules of social distancing. Here too, these assumptions are made for debate. It seems to me desirable to start with the classes considered as hinges. I remain very open to all the proposals that could be made to further improve the mechanism that we are beginning to consider. Finally, this period must be an opportunity to be creative and innovative. The months of May and June will be very different from all we have known so far. It is also an opportunity for extracurricular activities as long as they also respect health rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u45	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u46	Minister of Solidarity and Health, the Covid -19 epidemic exposes many professionals to the risk of contamination as part of their activity. The serious consequences that some of our fellow citizens suffer as a result of the disease raise for them the question of social security coverage for occupational diseases. We think first of all of the caregivers, who are particularly at risk because of their contact with the infected. On this point, you have committed yourself, Minister, to a systematic and automatic recognition for all sick caregivers. This financial and legal protection represents a recognition by the State of the dedication of caregivers and their unwavering self-denial. This results in 100 per cent coverage of medical expenses, payment of compensation for temporary or permanent incapacity, and, in the event of death, the award of an annuity to eligible beneficiaries. However, all staff in health, medical, social and social institutions are subject to this risk. For the sake of equality, they should be entitled to the same recognition ex officio. Similarly, other private sector employees and public officials working in contact with patients, users or clients have been or are at high risk of being exposed to contamination. With a view to fair remuneration, this recognition should apply to all those who work on a daily basis in the country's essential functioning, particularly in the food, transport and security sectors. Also, a dedicated compensation scheme, like the FIVA – compensation fund for asbestos victims – could be a way forward. I have a special thought for dockers and harbour agents who professionally ensure the continuity of services in the ports, especially in my constituency. The recognition, care and compensation of all those who, every day, overcome their fear of caring for the sick and ensuring the continuity of the activities of the essential sectors must be guaranteed by the nation. In order for the courage of these professionals not to be experienced as a sacrifice but as a collective and national effort, we must protect them as they protect us by integrating them into a compensation scheme that is commensurate with their commitment. Minister, can you tell us what you intend to do about this?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u47	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u48	With regard to caregivers, regardless of their place of exercise and mode of exercise – in the hospital, in EHPAD, in the city – regardless of the discipline concerned, we have decided on automatic recognition as an occupational disease, which means compensation in the event of temporary or permanent incapacity, and, in the event of death, measures for the benefit of the descendants. In other words, the accountability of the work in the occurrence of the disease is automatic. It's unique. In addition, we extend this mechanism to liberal physicians, who are not usually entitled to it. The work, which combines health insurance with the department's services, has been initiated in order to honour this very clear political command. A caregiver will not have to demonstrate that he or she has been contaminated at his or her place of work; We'll automatically consider it to have been. In the case of other professions, there are traditional procedures for obtaining recognition of a disease as an occupational disease. To this end, a medical committee must be seized and decide on accountability: is it within the scope of the profession that I practice, during the contacts that I may have had with sick people in my professional exercise that I was able to contract the disease? The same applies to Covid -19 as infectious diseases and other diseases: if proof of accountability can be given, then recognition can be obtained, under the same conditions as for caregivers. The difference lies in accountability: it is automatic when you are a caregiver, in the hospital, in EHPAD or in the city; for other professions, it is possible to refer the matter to the ad hoc committee which is studying accountability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u49	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u50	The Covid-19 virus can be deadly, as we know, and our thoughts turn to bereaved families. But isolation, loneliness, sadness, and the deprivation of contact with loved ones are also deadly poisons. Yesterday, the figure of 7752 people who died in our country's EHPADs was revealed; In my department, the Hauts-de-Seine, we regret not less than 600 deaths. Minister of Solidarity and Health, on Sunday, you announced that families could return to their loved ones in EHPAD. The right of access, which has been restored since yesterday, will have to meet very limited conditions and will be very supervised, you said. We welcome your decision as the Republicans have been calling for the restoration of access for families for 15 days, so poignant is the situation of isolation in which our seniors are immersed in the EHPADs. Of course, we commend the work, the professionalism, the admirable dedication of the staff working in EHPADs, but they alone cannot compensate for the lack of contact and the terrible emotional lack. After Sunday's announcements, there are many questions. The right of access will be granted, under the responsibility of the director of the establishment, who will have to specify the terms and conditions, at the request of the residents themselves. What about residents who may not be able to apply for Alzheimer's disease or other severe conditions? You have also insisted on maintaining the ban on physical contacts – you will have to settle for visual contacts. Could we not consider allowing, on a case-by-case basis, in strict compliance with the prescribed hygiene measures, light, rapid physical contacts, which can be much more reassuring for the very elderly who suffer from vision or hearing problems? There is still a sluggish question of the still inadequate testing of residents, caregivers and members of families allowed to enter institutions. The equation is formidable. Raise the strangers, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u51	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u52	One of the merits of the press conference that the Prime Minister and I held on Sunday, taking the time to explain, is to remove the uncertainties. But if there's any left, I'm happy to answer you about the EHPADs. First of all, I thank you for supporting the decision that we have taken, which is not a simple one, to allow access again under framed conditions. As you said, physical contact is prohibited. Why? Because respect for barriers is even more important for vulnerable people than for the rest of the population. It is obviously necessary everywhere, but even more so for the most fragile. As soon as the virus enters an EHPAD, whatever path it takes, it endangers not only the life of the person through whom it entered, but also the life of an entire collective. It's very hard. We have made the decision to call for individual confinement in chambers after consulting groups of EHPADs with establishments abroad, including China, Japan and Korea, which are often cited as examples. According to them, the most effective measure, even if it is harsh on the human level, is confinement in the chamber. Aware of the difficulties this may pose and of the stakes of humanism, and after consultation with the actors in the sector, we propose, in the EHPADs but also in the medical and social establishments which accommodate persons with disabilities, to lift part of this constraint. But this is an additional constraint for the teams, as the visits will have to be supervised and accompanied. As for adding other constraints, taking the risk of physical contact transmitting the virus, we would only be angry if this choice were to have catastrophic consequences for the health of residents. It's very complicated. You're right, I mentioned a visiting right at the resident's request. It is obvious that if the resident is not able to make the request, the visit would not take place against his will but in an accompanying manner, taking into account the specificity of each individual. Caregivers working in EHPADs know how to handle such situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u53	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u54	Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the measures voted on last week are necessary, but, unfortunately, insufficient in view of the serious crisis we are experiencing. The resumption we all call for of our wishes implies a bit of legibility in this period of trouble. The State must therefore send a strong and clear message to our companies without delay. We cannot content ourselves with a carry-over of expenses, which would only delay the problem and increase the liability of companies, without anyone knowing when or how to pay it. The Republican Group has been calling for you for long weeks to completely cancel the tax and social charges on cafes, shops, restaurants, hotels and all companies seriously affected by the crisis that we are going through. Only this pure and simple cancellation will allow the recovery and will save thousands of jobs. The spread over time of payment, for those who could not benefit from such a measure, must also be clarified, so that everyone can predict what the future of his activity will be and, where appropriate, use the loan. In order to avoid cash flow difficulties, which are all too often the cause of a declaration of cessation of payments, banks must be required not to revert to bank outstanding amounts granted on 12 March, for a period not less than six months after the termination of the state of emergency. Cash will be the nerve of recovery for all. It is also imperative that donors be involved, particularly the large estates running the shopping malls. It is unthinkable that rents continue to be due as if nothing were. The measure of accountability that has been adopted is by no means sufficient, and it is likely to be synonymous with the future weeping. A move on the rents is necessary. Finally, you will have to reassure all of our companies on the indispensable economic deconfinity of our country after 11 May. Minister, when do you intend to announce these long-awaited measures from the entire national economic fabric? It's about his survival.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u55	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u56	I thank you for your interest in these small businesses, restaurants and hoteliers, to all of this world that drives life in our provinces and is facing an unprecedented crisis, which we have been accompanying for a month and a half, day by day, to help it pass this difficult course. For these small businesses, we created a specific solidarity fund, which allowed 900000 of them to receive 1500 euros in the first days of April. They can now benefit from an additional EUR 2000 by sending their files to the regions. Thanks to the vote on the amending finance bill on Friday – which I thank your assembly, having sat on its benches until late in the night – the amount of aid, increased by 1500 euros, will reach 5000 euros, which will allow them to face the burdens on their accounts due to lack of turnover. These companies will also be able to benefit from other measures adopted on Friday, including repayable advances. They will also benefit from the mobilisation of the DIRECCTE – regional directorates of companies, competition, consumption, work and employment – which I gathered again yesterday, in the presence of Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, Secretary of State, on the subjects of tourism, hospitality and catering. The latter is currently working on a supplementary plan to which the President of the Republic pays particular attention. In addition, an inter-ministerial committee on tourism is to be held in the near future. Digital measures are also planned and should enable these companies to generate turnover during this period. Finally, we are already preparing measures to accompany them with a view to their reopening. We do not yet know the date, but know that we are working hand in hand in this perspective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u57	Mr Mickaël Nogal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u58	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, our country is at war. It is at war to protect our economic tool and our unique industrial fabric in the world. He is at war to mobilize and reorient considerable production chains in order to meet the needs of protective materials and care for all French people. I know the Government's commitment on all these fronts to combat the pandemic that is hitting us. No such means have been mobilised, in record time, to stem an economic crisis. No such sacrifices have ever been made by the French with this general confinement. It is now up to us to plan for the next, that is to say the deconfination. This will be a crucial step in building our society of tomorrow. As such, economic security should be made a national priority, which I believe should be based on three pillars. The first is to help companies through this crisis in order to enable the most efficient resumption of business. The second is to rebuild strategic channels in our territory in order to regain our industrial sovereignty. The third is to protect our vulnerable companies from hostile takeovers or cybercrime. The catalyst for these objectives must be environmental protection. The state will respond, I am sure, while Europe will also be on the rendezvous thanks to the action of France. The next must not be used to find our old world, but only to make it greener. On the contrary, let us make deconfinity an opportunity to integrate this principle into each of our strategic decisions and economic interventions. Let us deconfinitely make the opportunity to build the economy we want for tomorrow. Madam Secretary of State, can you present to the national representation the main economic objectives adopted and the actions already taken to prepare our economy for deconfinement?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u59	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u60	Thank you for this question, which, Mr Nogal, allows us to give perspective at the very difficult moment that we are going through. It also reminds us that despite this crisis we have not lost our compass, which is the ecological and energy transition and the improvement of the competitiveness of our companies and our economy by accompanying this transition, as well as by the use of new digital technologies. It seems to me that this period of containment shows just how much digital has enabled us to build resilience. Because today we are able to run the school and many businesses, it is precisely because we have built a solid digital foundation and invested significantly in this area over the last three years. What will the future be about? As you said, the first chapter is obviously to pass the crisis, to accompany companies, to find the right measures so that they can restart. There is then a second phase, on which we have worked a lot through the productive pact. We therefore have fundamentals to consider the relocation of industries in France: I am thinking here of health, an area for which we have the benefit of the Biot report, which we launched last November, on drug shortages. We also have the benefit of the Potier report on key technologies that we need to develop in the post-crisis era, which points to a number of markets that today demonstrate their relevance: I am thinking of health and the energy transition. And with Europe, we also have the capacity to build a real recovery plan; It was a victory that France won during the Eurogroup. This very important recovery plan will accompany these different transitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u61	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u62	Prime Minister, 1 million employees and entrepreneurs, 210,000 cafes and restaurants, 20,000 hotels, thermal establishments, such as in Dax or Vals-les-Bains, are worried about their future even though their present is already very worrying. They were the first to close; They'll probably be the last to reopen. They know the price of effort and what sacrifices and self-exhaustion are; It's their daily life. You have taken useful, necessary steps, but I'm afraid they're not enough. A few days ago, Philippe Etchebest estimated that 70% of the restaurateurs would not be able to pay their employees in April. He also mentioned the prospect of 40 per cent of restaurants not reopening their doors. I know that you will not disagree: in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures; This is what professional organisations call you for through better consideration of rents, cancellations of social security contributions, but also taxes – probably until the end of the year – or registration in the duration of the partial employment scheme. These organizations also question whether clients will return and, if so, whether they will return in time. That is why I believe that we need to consider customer support measures, with overnight or flat-rate aids. It will also be necessary to tackle the issue of operating losses and, if I believe Stéphane Jégo, not all insurances are, so much as they are, up to their responsibilities – and I know that you are making sure that they are. Finally, they question the timing of the reopening. Of course, it is not about exposing anyone, but it is necessary to give perspective and rules to hoteliers and restaurateurs. Prime Minister, I will have two simple questions, calling for clear answers. Can you tell the health authorities who advise you about the material and sanitary conditions for the reopening of hotels, cafes, restaurants? And can you tell us what you intend to do to avoid bankruptcies that will otherwise be numerous and generate hundreds of thousands of unemployed people. My inquiry is an alarm cry, but it is above all, you understand, a cry from the heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u63	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u64	Member of the European Parliament, it is a cry from the heart that I share. Yes, hoteliers, restaurateurs and all of our extraordinary sites – you talked about thermalism, we could talk about all the leisure sites, culture or museums – are now hard hit and we don't know exactly when we will be able to reopen them. I believe that everyone here shares the need to do so in perfect sanitary conditions. I will give two very concrete answers to your questions. With regard to the conditions for reopening, I would like first of all to point out that hotels can continue to work under special conditions: some already do so, often by providing a service to the public community, by housing caregivers or people in difficulty. For them, we have obviously worked on sanitary conditions: the work is quite advanced, as they are operational; It is still only on a small scale, of course, but openness is possible. With regard to other sites, such as restaurants, we have already started work, as pilot Muriel Pénicaud. This does not mean that everything will be ready on May 11, but that we have logically anticipated this date to define what a reopening of a restaurant, campsite, museum or any other type of site would mean and thus define their working conditions, because when you singularly reduce their reception capacity you can question their economic model; This is one of the issues we are working on. There will be the second chapter, with the specific plan dedicated to the hotel industry, for which Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne is very involved. We also call on the French to give priority to France, when they have the opportunity, for their tourist destination. So know that we are very much with hoteliers, restaurateurs and the whole tourism sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u65	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u66	My question is for the Minister of Economy. You, like a number of Members, have pointed out the difficulties faced by certain companies that are crucial to the territories. Often, in a village or village, there is only one restaurant. Forced to close, these establishments are unlikely to reopen until quite late, even though some of them were already in a weak situation; So we can be very worried. The Secretary of State gave us the philosophy for the reopening of these institutions earlier: it will indeed be necessary to make things clearer and more precise. What about a sector that goes hand in hand with hotels and restaurants, that of the great gatherings of the summer? I am thinking in particular of the interceltic festival of Lorient, which is to be held in early August and which we do not know if it will take place. I mentioned this event because the Minister for Foreign Affairs is present, but there are many others, particularly in Brittany and in my constituency. They will need massive accompaniment and adapt during the various stages. I have noted the mechanisms of partial unemployment, which is indeed important, and guarantees of borrowing. But banks do not always play the game and we have a persistent problem with negative equity companies which, for the time being, cannot be helped. And I'm not talking about the insurers, but the 400 million euros they paid into a fund give me the impression that they're giving us a little alms. So I will have a very specific question. Will the exemption from tax charges, amounting to €750 million under the draft law on amending finance, which is expected to be voted on this week, relate to social contributions, business land assessment and property tax? Finally, you mentioned, Madam Secretary of State, a European recovery plan: can you be more precise about the way and the philosophy with which you want to drive it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u67	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u68	You mentioned, Mr Molac, important actors in the tourism and leisure sector: festival organizers. We're in contact with them. We had committed ourselves, for those whose festival was scheduled before 15 July, to provide them with a very precise response to allow them to organize themselves, to provide cancellations and to be able to benefit from the insurance for operating losses; festival organizers have access to it and can activate it on the basis of an administrative decision. This has been done in accordance with their expectations and we will strive to work and accompany the movement, but, during this period and taking into account the kinetics of the epidemic, I repeat that our first duty is to protect the French and to prevent the virus from circulating too easily. The second element is the massive plan in which we are engaged. This plan included a first step, that of emergency measures – provided for in the first amending finance law. It involves a second stage, that of deepening measures, which will concern firms in difficulty within the meaning of the European definition. This has allowed us to go much further and to extend the benefit, not only of the solidarity fund, but also of the State-guaranteed loan. We have also created new instruments such as the FDES – funds for economic and social development – and repayable advances and opportunities for financing and support to businesses. Finally, the third stage will concern the actors you mentioned, specific sectors that cannot emerge from the crisis by 11 May and which will have to wait a little longer, even if we are organizing ourselves to speed up this exit from the crisis. They will benefit from a specific tourism-oriented plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u69	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u70	In France, today, more and more people are suffering from hunger. Families are unable to feed their children, usually supported by low-cost school canteens; For some of them, it was the only meal of the day. If French people are saving money during the health crisis, more and more people are waiting to get a meal. Perhaps you have seen these long queues in Clichy-sous-Bois, in front of university restaurants or elsewhere? One discovers a young audience, who is not used to using solidarity to eat. While incomes of many are falling, food prices are rising, in particular due to the shortage of some cheap products. The vast majority of open markets, often cheaper than local supermarkets, have closed. The monopoly situation of large distribution concerns us both for prices and for suppliers, who are under downward pressure. Here I want to salute the energy, essentially voluntary, of all the solidarity associations, big and small, that glaze our territory and allow people to hold. There are also elected representatives, as well as public service personnel, who are struggling to promote food solidarity. But what are you doing? You propose, by 15 May, an aid of 150 euros per household beneficiary of the RSA – active solidarity income – or of the SSA – specific service allowance – with, in addition, 100 euros per dependent child. But on May 15, Prime Minister, it's still in seventy-two meals! How are families going to do that? Do I have to remind you that the cost of the average basket jumped by 89% at the beginning of the month? What will be for young people under 25 years of age, for undocumented people, for all those who do not receive any help? [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] Why don't you regulate the prices of basic foodstuffs, as you did for hydro-alcoholic gel? Why don't you increase social minima? Why don't you massively support the community world that comes to the aid of vulnerable populations? Why don't you redistribute the 3.2 billion solidarity tax on wealth? Food is a vital issue, health but also...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u71	Thank you, my dear colleague. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u72	You mentioned, Mrs Autain, the exceptional solidarity aid announced last week by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. In the light of your findings, we have targeted it to the most precarious households, beneficiaries of the AHR or the ASS. We have also opened it to families who receive housing assistance. It will amount to 150 euros per household, plus 100 euros per child. The aim is to provide for the food needs of families, especially those who previously receive almost free canteens and face additional costs. This exceptional aid will actually be paid on 15 May. Families will be able to benefit from it without taking any steps: it will be automatically paid by the family allowance funds or by the Agricultural Social Mutuality, for persons who are covered by the agricultural scheme. However, we do not wait until 15 May to act. Since the beginning of the crisis, I have been working daily with food aid associations – you have rightly wanted to thank the volunteers and local elected representatives. We help them to hold on, because they must maintain their food aid, sometimes even restore it. I am working on these issues with Gabriel Attal, Secretary of State to the Minister of National Education and Youth. The platform jevauxaide.gouv.fr helps them recruit volunteers to distribute food aid, including in new places, for example in university residences, to students in precarious situations. It is by working together that we bring solutions. In a few days, I will propose to these associations very concrete financing measures. I would also like to highlight the work done by the minister responsible for the city and housing, Julien Denormandie: thanks to the service vouchers, which are available next weekend, the people who are staying will be able to buy their own food. The scheme is financed by an envelope of EUR 15 million, to which has just been added an additional EUR 5 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u73	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u74	My question is to Mr Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, responsible for tourism. I would like to associate my colleague Frédérique Lardet. The great health battle in which France is engaged will be long and perilous. Beyond the fight led by our courageous caregivers, another front is open, that of the economy. Our tourism sector is one of the most affected. Last year, nearly 90 million foreign visitors trodden the French soil to discover the treasures of our territories. By 2020, the closing of the planet will drastically reduce this figure. The economic consequences will be brutal and lasting for this major sector. The announcement of a major tourism plan was widely welcomed by the profession. In the absence of foreign tourists, the success of this plan will depend on the will of the French, during the next holidays, to meet the challenge of national tourism solidarity. Last year, however, only 66% of French people were able to go on vacation. What will happen after the containment has been reduced, once some of them have been hit by the economic crisis? The Prime Minister entrusted me with a mission on holidays for all, with recommendations to be made for the next meeting of the Interministerial Committee on Tourism. This major plan for tourism must be firmly committed to supporting our tourism economy by allowing our citizens to leave on holiday. The holiday voucher, the Vacaf scheme and the holiday solidarity grant are all relevant social measures. Others must be born, like the Colo Pass. Let's do it right now. Undoubtedly, 2020 will be a white year for tourism. Reporting and posting would be a powerful signal to professionals, small businesses, employees and seasonal workers. Mr. Secretary of State, what about the calendar? When and for whom will the containment relief take place? What about the overseas? For the reopening to be a success, there must be customers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u75	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u76	The tourism sector was hit quickly and very brutally. He's almost at a standstill today. The response of the Government and the State was very powerful, very strong, very massive. We have set a principle: tourism will be made a national priority. As the President of the Republic said in his speech, he will be listening to professionals in the next few days. As the Prime Minister has indicated, the Interdepartmental Committee on Tourism will meet in May. Until then, we are working methodically, with professionals, to co-build a plan. Our strategy, which is very clear, is threefold. First of all, it is about preserving jobs and businesses, which make our territories rich – in some rural departments, tourism accounts for up to 25% or 30% of the local economy. The actors took advantage of the levers put at their disposal: 27,000 tourism companies benefited from a State-guaranteed loan, for a total of 2.7 billion euros; 16% of enterprises using partial activity are in the tourism sector. We must then prepare for recovery, when the time comes, because it is naturally the fight against the epidemic that prevails. Until then, we are working with professionals on proposals for health protocols, in connection with the mission led by Mr Castex. It is finally up to us to prepare a plan for the bounce, the winback. This will require accelerated investment in health, of course, but also in sustainable tourism or in digital technologies. When the French can think of a few more holidays, I think they will start by doing so in France. It will also involve tourism for all, an issue on which you are very committed. We'll work on your proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u77	We conclude the session with questions on various topics, still related to the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u78	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u79	Mr Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth, the figures fall: two thirds of the associations are at a standstill, and a recent study refers to a loss of revenue of activity approaching €1.4 billion. However, because of their specific accounting characteristics and their economic fragility, they are less well placed in the boxes for companies, as we know. Yet they create more than 3% of our GDP and employ tens of thousands of employees. The non-stop third party is in the fight, including food aid associations with the most vulnerable or civil protection associations with caregivers. Tomorrow, the other two thirds of the associations, those that promote the social and national cohesion of our country, will resume their activities but will be in difficulty. The call for Emmaus' help, which we have all witnessed this weekend, already shows this. Mr. Secretary of State, is a rescue plan under development? Can you confirm to us that the government and its departments are in the process of making grants, as is the case in many communities? You wished to maintain the 2020 session of the universal national service. The registrations have been closed since the beginning of April and, according to our information, the results seem far from the objectives, which is perfectly explained in the light of the current situation. Do you confirm this gap between registrations and targets? My colleague Sarah El Haïry, who is responsible for this issue, is special rapporteur on the youth budget and associative life. She wondered whether redeployments of funds were possible to help our associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u80	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u81	I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute, once again, to all those who are committed to building solidarity on the ground, which is a fundamental value in limiting the social crisis that could arise with the health crisis. If distribution points and food banks of the Restos du coeur open, it is thanks to these engaged and these volunteers. If we can ensure even greater educational continuity for the most disadvantaged students, it is also thanks to these committed and volunteers. If the link is maintained with the isolated and vulnerable, it is still thanks to them. We must of course support associations; We have been doing this since the beginning of this crisis. That is why we wanted them to be eligible for all the common legal provisions put in place for businesses. I am thinking of postponing charges, State-guaranteed loans, the solidarity fund and partial unemployment, all of which are very much expected by the voluntary actors. We assured them that they had access to it, and told them again. You raise a very concrete question, which is also the subject of strong expectations on the part of the associations: that of subsidies granted by the State. As you know, subsidies have already been announced and notified, but for the most part they have not yet been paid. Associations are wondering if grants related to projects or actions that cannot take place as a result of confinement will be honoured. We are working with the Prime Minister on an inter-ministerial circular to be published in the coming days; It will require all departments to honour the grants even though the project could not be completed. For example, Solidarity AIDS will receive the government's grant to organize the Solidays festival, although it cannot be held. Similarly, a number of environmental protection associations will receive the grant they have received to make a statement of the species they normally carry out at that time of year. This is a very strong signal. Of course, I call on local authorities and patrons to follow this path. We need the associations right now. Of course, we will also need it after confinement, to rebuild.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u82	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u83	Prime Minister, the construction site that opens, the post-confinement site, will require the mobilization of the entire Republic, mainly the communes. However, due to free-falling endowments for years, due to the austerity imposed by the state, and now the containment, which has removed a lot of revenue, the protective force of the communes is seriously threatened. Parking receipts, lease rents, market tax, municipal canteens – and I'm passing – who will compensate for all this? And who will pay to compensate for the efforts of the communes, on their own budget, to help debunking? I would point out, however, that the municipalities must balance their budgets. In other words, a decline in their revenue and an increase in their expenditure can only lead to a decrease in the level of service, in other words, to the opposite of what this exit from crisis requires. No one will have escaped the fact that the municipalities are at the forefront of managing this crisis, which reminds those who despise them how essential their commitment is. This work is good for you and, aware of that, Prime Minister, you have described it as "remarkable." What would be remarkable is that the State finally recognizes these efforts at their fair value. Indeed, you have no financial provision for valuing this public service: nothing concerning the thawing of the remuneration of civil servants and their purchasing power; There is also nothing in terms of State allocations and compensation for the operation and investment in the municipalities. You proposed to award a bonus of 1500 euros to the agents, which is a good thing, but you ask the town halls to pay it. Thank you for being so generous with other people's money! In the face of the crisis, the first reflex of the executive was to say: "no matter what it will cost". It is therefore high time to announce major measures that marked the nation's support for the communes of France. The Communist MEPs ask you in simple terms: are you going to compensate for the euro?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u84	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u85	Your question, Mr Lecoq, gives me the opportunity to highlight and acknowledge the essential role played by local elected officials, including mayors, in managing the crisis. Since the beginning of this crisis, the State has stood by their side. By the end of March, we have taken very concrete steps to enable elected officials to implement their budgets under much more flexible and simpler conditions than usual. I quote, for the record: the suspension of Cahors' contracts signed in 2020; the postponement of the vote on the budget until the end of July; the possibility of carrying out, before this vote, capital and operating expenditure; the authority, given directly to the local executive, to subscribe to cash lines or to grant grants to associations – which were the subject of the previous question. Of course, we know that the crisis will have an impact on local budgets: some tax revenues will decrease; Some expenses will increase. On this point, I assure you, the state has never abandoned communities that are experiencing financial difficulties; He won't give them up today. That is the whole meaning of the policy that we have been pursuing since 2017: contrary to what you have said, we have put an end, I remind you, to the budget cuts made in the previous four years; We have kept this commitment without fail since the beginning of the quinquennium. It is in this spirit that the Prime Minister decided to entrust Jean-René Cazeneuve, chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, with an important mission to assess the impact of the crisis on local finances. This impact will obviously be very different depending on the territory; It is known that some municipalities already suffer a lot, such as tourist municipalities or those located overseas. The Government will work closely with this mission to develop an effective and shared response to community challenges. In addition, if some of them had cash flow problems, we would be there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u86	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u87	Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, the exceptional circumstances associated with the Covid-19 pandemic are testing our health systems and our economies, and helping to increase the balance of power on the international stage. While facing the biggest health crisis since its inception, the World Health Organization – WHO – has received every attention. While the unprecedented scale of this crisis calls for a coordinated international response, the WHO has become the target of violent criticism, before being simply called into question by US President Donald Trump. The suspension of the funding of the Organization in the midst of a health crisis thus notes its willingness to disengage its country from intergovernmental institutions. On the other hand, China intends to invest them massively, while promoting its own conception of international relations, including through the new silk roads. With the weakening of the WHO and the strengthening of these hegemonic ambitions, it is a whole system that is being undermined, a system based on international cooperation and mutual assistance among nations: multilateralism so dear to those who contributed to its elaboration, at the end of the other dark period of the Second World War. You have honoured this multilateral order, Minister, by creating the Alliance for Multilateralism in April 2019. Convinced that the major challenges facing us can only be met through cooperation, France and its partners can and must be the pre-eminent guardian of this comprehensive approach, including and especially in the field of global health. This order will undoubtedly undergo profound changes during the crisis, and more importantly once it is resolved. From this perspective, what role and strategy does France intend to develop, in order to give strength and credibility to WHO, and more broadly to all supranational institutions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u88	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u89	The World Health Organization is the only universal health organization to date; It is one of the pillars of the multilateral order founded after the Second World War, which explains our surprise at hearing that some wanted to suspend their contributions to it. What would we do tomorrow without a universal organization to fight a pandemic, universal by definition? That would be contradictory. France's position is therefore very clear: we support the WHO and we will continue to do so. I note, moreover, that we are not alone in doing so; You mentioned the Alliance for Multilateralism: my German counterpart Heiko Maas and I met on 16 April, and its members expressed their willingness to support the World Health Organization. Nevertheless, the pandemic requires reform of health multilateralism, in particular by strengthening the normative role of WHO. There is an international health regulation, dating back to 2005, but the means of enforcement are lacking. WHO must also increase its financial autonomy to play its role of alerting and detecting, for example through the transparent establishment of a global authority for human and animal health, which would play a scientific warning role comparable to that of the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Finally, there is a need to innovate with regard to coordination between public health tools: I am thinking in particular of vertical funds such as the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization – GAVI –, Unitaid or the Bill-et-Melinda-Gates Foundation, since private foundations are also involved. This is the will of the President of the Republic, who received all these organizations a few days ago, with a view to reshaping global health security under the leadership of WHO.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u90	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-21-O1196.u91	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Possible discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee or on further reading, of the draft amending finance law for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
