ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u2	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do to speak on her question No 897 on the situation in the Conforama Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u3	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of the Conforama Group, which, in July 2019, announced the closure of thirty-two stores and ten depots in France, as well as the elimination of more than 1900 jobs across the country. Since 2017, the group has been facing the challenges faced by its shareholder, the Steinhoff Group, as well as the evolution of consumption patterns – including the development of the digital economy. The transformation plan particularly affects the tenth constituency of Seine-et-Marne, notably the city of Chelles, where a store is threatened with closure, and Lognes, where the group's head office is located. The latter could also be subject to abolition of posts. This restructuring is a cause of great concern for the group's employees. While the consequences for them are impressive, the commercial and economic fabric of the territory is also very shaken. For the stores targeted by closures, the management of the group is prepared to favour buyers who retain the employees, thereby limiting the impact on employment. However, to date, there are no buyers. In response to this situation, I call upon the Government to take the measures it intends to take to support, support and provide a future for all employees at risk, and the strategy it intends to implement to ensure that the digital economy does not consolidate at the expense of local commerce.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u5	As you said, the Conforama group is going through a deep crisis. Like many retail brands located on the outskirts of our cities, it faces a transformation that we must amply accompany, in particular by ensuring that the conditions for the exercise of their profession are balanced and that they work under conditions of fair competition. This has led us in particular to introduce a digital services tax: this first step that is unique in the world – and on which many countries are following us today – allows us to value the balance of competition. With regard to the Conforama file, I took stock yesterday with one of its directors. I mean here all the commitment of the Government to ensure that, individually, employees affected by the social plan can benefit from support that allows them to bounce back, by performing another occupation or an equivalent occupation that corresponds to their aspirations. Things are very clear: we will defend every job and make sure that unemployment is reduced. With regard to the shops, we will also have to work hand in hand with Conforama – what we do: our intervention alongside the employees, which is relatively distinctive, has enabled us to obtain conditions of social supervision and quality accompaniment. We can never be satisfied with this kind of situation. Never. But in any case, today we have reached an agreement that satisfies the employees, and we will mobilize to minimize the footprint on the territory and the consequences on the employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u6	Mr Damien Pichereau has the floor to put his question, No. 894, on the fight against overpacking.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u7	My question is about e-commerce. Like almost 40 million of my fellow citizens, I have already had the opportunity to order from online shopping sites or platforms. What was not my surprise the day I received a package four to five times larger than the product ordered! This is a reality: according to the Conseil national de l'package, in France, almost 50% of the packages are empty. Far from me the idea of fighting e-commerce, which represents a change in the consumption patterns of our fellow citizens. However, overpacking is an aberration. A logistical aberration first, since the parcels occupy space in the warehouses; an ecological aberration then: in terms of transport, if we divide the size of the parcels by two, we can put twice as much in a truck and, mathematically, decrease the number of trucks on the roads and pollution; Finally, an economic aberration, because nothing is free: we must pay for the packaging and their transport. That is why we absolutely have to fight overpacking. According to the Environmental Code, "packaging must be designed and manufactured in such a way as to limit its volume and mass". It must be noted that this is not the case. Moreover, no sanction from the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – DGCCRF – concerns the fight against over-volume. My question is therefore simple: at a time when more than 500 million parcels are exchanged and circulated every year on our roads, and while this figure is constantly increasing, what is the Government's plan to combat overpacking?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u8	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u9	Through the examples of bad packaging practices you describe, your question raises the whole issue of the fight against overpacking. Whether it is on-line or in-store, electronic products or vegetables, overpacking leads to waste of our resources and generates unnecessary waste, some of which is not recycled. The draft law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, recently adopted by the National Assembly, provides for several measures to combat these bad practices. As of 1 January 2022, an electronic reporting device will allow consumers to report products with packaging that they consider excessive to the eco-organism. These alerts will allow for the setting of malus, which will encourage manufacturers and distributors to review the packaging they use. The law goes even further, prohibiting overpacking of fruit and vegetables. These measures are therefore concrete and ambitious; You can count on the commitment of the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition to ensure its implementation. Indeed, the issue of overpacking is an important one, and the Government is committed to promoting good practices and encouraging companies to be more resource-efficient – especially for cardboard packaging, on which your question drew attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u10	Mr Damien Pichereau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u11	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I welcome the measures taken by the Government, which must now be communicated, as they affect the ecology of everyday life. On this subject, the French are waiting for us. With the measures you have just outlined, we are taking the right direction; Now, to our citizens and consumers to play the game and report abusive practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u12	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to put his question, No 904, on the development of the RN88.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u13	As you know, Madam Secretary of State, the development of road infrastructure is essential in order to strengthen the attractiveness of rural areas and thus ensure their economic development.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u15	My department of Haute-Loire is crossed by two nationals: the RN102 and the RN88. On 13 July 2018, Élisabeth Borne, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, came to inaugurate the bypass of the city of Puy-en-Velay. If this is a very beautiful achievement...,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u16	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u17	... there is however a black dot on the RN88, in the continuation of the bypass: the crossing of the village of Les Baraques, on the commune of Cussac-sur-Loire. Indeed, this road used daily by 12,000 light vehicles and heavy vehicles – and I stress this figure – poses two problems: first, the crossing is dangerous for the residents. However, the number of pedestrians in the village is high due to the existence of housing and commercial activities. Secondly, this road causes noise nuisances and pollution which degrades the living environment of the inhabitants. In a letter dated June 6, 2019, I contacted Minister Elizabeth Borne to ask her to confirm the commitment of the funds necessary to launch the studies of this circumvention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u18	It's very important.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u19	By letter dated 2 October 2019, the Secretary of State for Transport informed me of his willingness to integrate these studies into the development of the future State-Region Plan Contract – CPER – so that they could be launched quickly. Land acquisitions have already been completed. So, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to confirm that the credits for studies and works – I say studies and works – dedicated to the circumvention of the Baraques will be included in the next CPER of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, which will cover the period 2021-2026.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u20	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u21	You asked my colleague Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, Secretary of State for Transport, about the inclusion of the financing of the work of the Baraques-Le Fangeas section of the RN88 in the next mobility contract. This section of the RN88, which completes the bypass of the Puy-en-Velay, recently put into service, extends on a linear of about 5 kilometers between the communes of Cussac-sur-Loire and Saint-Christophe-sur-Dolaizon. The land acquisitions necessary to carry out this last development have already been carried out. As Jean-Baptiste Djebbari confirmed in his letter of October 2, 2019, which you cited, it is indeed necessary that the studies be resumed by the end of the execution of the "Multimodal Mobility" component of the current CPER, which will be extended until 2022. These studies will make it possible to better assess the cost of the operation, with a view to its inclusion in the next contract. Even if the operation has not been included in the current CPER, I am therefore pleased to confirm that the updating of previous studies can be financed, by 2022, as part of the annual programming of the overall State budget, for investment on national roads. The question of the inclusion of the funding of the work of the section Les Baraques-Le Fangeas will be addressed in the context of the development of the future contract on mobility, which will succeed the current CPER. This contract will be the subject of local consultation on regional priorities and will enter into force on 1 January 2023. You can count on the commitment of government departments to carry out this development project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u22	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for answering me specifically. If I understand correctly, the study credits will be entered until 2022, allowing the completion of the studies; and, from 2022 onwards, work can finally begin. Thank you again for this very precise answer, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u24	The next item is the question by Mrs Annie Chapelier, No 902, concerning the western bypass of Nîmes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u25	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to a project of circumvention, the West Nîmes bypass project. This is a road link between the Alès road and the A9 motorway, which is controlled by the State. I would like to remind you of the urgency of the situation. This thirty-year-old project is indeed the aorta of the department, if you allow me this anatomical comparison. This bypass responds to several challenges: it aims to fluidize mobility, like all bypass projects, but above all to improve the connection between the Cevenol country and the Mediterranean arc. In fact, the increase in traffic over the last thirty years has caused such congestion, particularly in the north-west of Nîmes, which the transit times between the northern municipalities of Nîmes and Nîmes have sometimes doubled. In addition, the commissioning of the Nîmes-Pont du Gard TGV station has only further isolated the Alesian basin from an additional 30 minutes of transport time from a TGV station. This project, thought at the same time that the introduction of the two-lane road in question and the western bypass of Nîmes, did not benefit from the same chronology. As a reminder, work on the National Road 106 began in 1990; a first portion was put into service in 1998, followed by a second in 2007 and a third in 2012 – interrupted 14 kilometres from Nîmes. The finalisation of this development requires the western bypass of Nîmes, whose project was the subject of a consultation in 2017. It helped to define the route, funding and partnerships of the operation. More recently, the Gard Prefect signed a decree that took the project into account and defined a new study area. This is why this fundamental project with the objectives of unhindering the Alès basin – which, paradoxically, is increasingly landlocked – and deburring the city of Nîmes must be pursued and finalized. Madam Secretary of State, what does the state envisage, in the context of the phase of the operation and the launch of the public inquiry, in order to meet the expectations of the Gardois and finally to make its consistency with this project of territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u26	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u27	The western bypass of Nîmes – the CONIM –, currently under consideration in the departments of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, is indeed one of the most expected operations in the Occitanie region. This new road infrastructure of twice two lanes over 12 kilometers, linking the road of Alès to the A9 motorway, will allow to keep the traffic of trade and transit away from the current RN106, in order to give the latter a more urban character, better adapted to the territory it crosses. The opportunity studies and public consultation, carried out in 2017, helped to define a coherent and consensual planning plan. Since then, the State has been studying the project in more detail, on this basis, with a view to bringing it to the public inquiry with a view to its declaration of public utility. In addition, the State services are working to optimize the connection of CONIM with the A9. The possibility of becoming part of the network of Motorways of the South of France – ASF – remains to be learned. It is planned to finalize the studies prior to the public survey in 2020, in order to allow the start of the consultation with local and central government departments as well as with local and regional authorities. In view of its environmental impact, the project will be subject to an assessment by the Environmental Authority. The public survey is planned for the end of 2020. To support this project, an initial amount of €10 million, of which 50% is financed by the State, is included in the Occitanie State-Region Plan contract. The overall cost of the project is estimated at €180 million. First land acquisitions can be made in support of these means. Finally, prior to the launch of the public inquiry, it will be necessary to determine the sharing of project financing between the State and the communities concerned, taking into account, in particular, the small share of transit traffic expected on CONIM.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u28	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u29	I thank you for these clarifications, which, however, do not remove the vagueness and uncertainty of the deadlines, beyond the completion of the study and the public inquiry planned for the end of 2020. It is worth recalling that, if the reflection on the whole project has not yet been completed, certain sections allowing the congestion and fluidisation of the traffic could be carried out immediately, subject to a common will of the department and the State. I therefore expect the State to respond to these sections of the road, for which consultation has already taken place and a consensus exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u30	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor to put her question, No 908, on support for renewable energies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u31	My question to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. The Government seemed willing to act in favour of the transition, but despite its ambitions, the development of renewable energy was accumulating delays. Too many obstacles hinder their growth: long and complex authorizations, multiple recourses of opponents. In addition to the vital challenge of the ecological transition, the issue of industrial sovereignty remains central. Our industrial sectors cover less than 25% of electricity production in our own country. In wind turbines, 80% of turbines are manufactured by foreign manufacturers. There is no sovereignty without energy sovereignty. An effective policy of support for these energies must therefore be pursued. Finally, the transformation of our modes of consumption, transport and production must not be the prerogative of a minority of privileged people. Our country has real deposits in renewable energy, in metropolitan France and overseas. Our maritime facades offer a potential for marine energies. Solarisation promotes the deployment of photovoltaics. Why not give priority to the most profitable renewable energies, such as hydro, instead of favouring wind, which pollutes the soil and destroys the landscapes? I would like to know what the Government intends to do to develop a coherent and effective policy of support for renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u32	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u33	Madam Member, you have interviewed Ms Élisabeth Borne, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. Following the adoption of the Energy and Climate Act, the Government submitted the multi-year energy programming – EPP – and the national low-carbon strategy for public consultation on 20 January. These documents set out the Government's ambition and plan of action to achieve national targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and changing energy mix. The achievement of these objectives requires, of course, an acceleration of the deployment of renewable energies, with a two-fold increase in wind energy and a five-fold increase in solar energy. Since 2018, several consultations have been conducted to identify and implement structural measures to remove obstacles to the development of wind, solar, methanization and biomass chains. This work to support renewable energy is continuing. A new ministerial meeting on the harmonious development of wind energy was held on 18 December, at which several concrete measures were announced to enhance the acceptability of wind energy throughout the country, while controlling risks and nuisances, be they installation procedures or work on wind turbine dismantling. As you point out, this transition must also be a vehicle for economic dynamism. The wind industry, which you mentioned, represented 18,200 jobs in 2018, an increase of almost 15% since 2016. Despite the absence of a large French turbinier, many industrial players have managed to position themselves in the industry, particularly in the manufacture of components and in assembly. Hundreds of companies produce components sold to large foreign wind turbine manufacturers. Finally, the EPP plans to increase renewable heat production by 40% to 60% compared to 2016. To this end, the heat fund, managed by ADEME – the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – has been increased to 307 million euros since 2019 and will be strengthened to reach 350 million euros this year. The EPP foresees substantial support for the biogas sector, with an envelope of almost €9.7 billion over the duration of the programme. The production of thermal renewable energy is thus the subject of special attention by the Government, which supports in a balanced manner the development of all renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u34	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u35	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. It is often said that wind energy should not be preferred over other renewables. That is why I would like to ask you whether the Government could speed up studies on other renewable energies, which are less harmful to the population, and give priority, as I mentioned, to hydroelectricity, sunshine and maritime facades. These energies could also be an important source of employment for both hexagon and overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u36	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to put her question, No 918, on the taxation of palm oil.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u37	My question concerns the inclusion of palm oil, in particular palm fatty acids, in French biofuels. As you know, the National Assembly has confirmed, after many twists, the exclusion of biofuels derived from palm oil from the tax system of the incentive tax on the incorporation of biofuels, the TIRIB, from 1 January last, with the approval of the Constitutional Council. Following discussions on the 2020 Finance Bill on this issue, the Government announced the establishment of a working group to reflect, in the near future, on the proper path of palm oil release and the possible use of imported so-called certified palm oil. In parallel, on December 19, the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties decided to maintain the tax advantage for palm fatty acids – palm fatty acid distillate, PFAD – which are a by-product of palm oil. This decision runs counter to a first note, published in June 2019, which clearly mentioned the exclusion of PFADs produced from palm oil from the TIRIB mechanism. Indeed, the production of these palm fatty acids is entirely linked to the production of palm oil. At European level, these acids are not included in the official list of raw materials eligible for the so-called advanced biofuel classification. So I have two questions, Madam Secretary of State. First, can you inform us of the conclusions of last week's meeting with all the parties involved? Secondly, can you express more clearly the Government's position on this subject, since it seems at present contrary to the will of the legislators we are, but also to the interpretation of the Constitutional Council? Our clear will is to exclude palm oil and all its derivatives and co-products from the list of biofuels, given its more than harmful impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u38	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u39	Madam Member, you have interviewed Ms Élisabeth Borne, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. The Finance Act for 2020, adopted by the National Assembly, confirmed the exclusion of palm oil products from the TIRIB scheme from 1 January 2020. This means that, from a fiscal point of view, palm oil is no longer considered a biofuel in France. On the other hand, the question arises for palm fatty acid distillates, commonly known as PFAD. These materials correspond to the European definition of residues under Directive 2018/2001: they are not the primary objective of the process and the process is not modified to obtain more. Their use by the La Mède plant was already foreseen and explicitly mentioned in the prefectural order of authorisation of the plant of 16 May 2018. The communiqué issued by former Minister Nicolas Hulot at the time of the signing of this Order indicated that PFADs were classified as raw materials derived from the recycling of oils. On the other hand, these materials will not benefit from incentives, in particular from the double counting scheme, for advanced biofuels, as they are not included in the Annex to the European Directive. In accordance with the commitments made by Minister Elizabeth Borne on the bench on 15 November 2019, during the review of the 2020 PLF, a consultation was held on 21 January 2020 with environmental protection associations, parliamentarians and relevant economic operators to assess the need for a change in the regulatory framework. The Government is now considering the follow-up to this dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u40	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor to put his question, No 911, on environmental emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u41	The images of the ecological disaster in Australia have made a difference. Many have pointed to the Australian government's responsibility for the policy of the second largest coal exporter in the world. This should not, however, relieve the other powers of a responsibility which is, in reality, general. The failure of the recent COP25 is a sad example: it symbolizes our collective difficulty in leading the fight for the climate emergency. Yet the stakes are immense and the means to implement them colossal. There is a need for a genuine change in substance. The European green deal cannot only be a greening of politics: it must above all allow us to switch to a new society freed from the weight of fossil fuels. The ecological transition requires an enormous effort, a change in the legislative and regulatory framework, a financial effort and the full involvement of all actors. We know that there is no shortage of challenges. I am thinking, for example, of the demographic issue: while our planet will have 9 billion inhabitants in the next twenty years, the absence of a break will lead to widespread asphyxiation and the Australian disaster would be nothing more than the everyday banal. The deployment of this new economic model will only work if it avoids the trap of centralism. Local and regional authorities must be at the forefront of action: this is the essential condition to train citizens, businesses and associations. My question is twofold. In the face of this urgency, what efforts is the Government prepared to undertake to achieve this transformation? Is he willing to change the paradigm by giving local actors the capacity to act?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u42	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u43	Mr President, you have asked Mrs Élisabeth Borne, Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. As you said, the ecological transition requires an indispensable transformation of our models. The time when ecology could satisfy itself with small gestures is over. Ecological transition, or rather ecological transformation, involves a systemic revolution, faster and even more ambitious than the past industrial revolution. This is a collective challenge that will be met by citizens, the state, territories, businesses, social partners, associative actors and, of course, parliamentarians. In France, the course has been set. It is clear: we must achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, with an increase in the share of renewable energy and a 50% reduction in the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix by 2035, the closure of the last coal-fired power plants by 2022 and, still, a concern to support the employees and territories concerned. From this year onwards, we are committed, together with Bruno Le Maire, to the productive pact in which we accompany both the ecological transition of all our economic sectors and the development of the pathways of the ecological transition. The green deal presented by the new European Commission is also a powerful lever of transformation in favour of this ecological transformation. This collective path is first and foremost embodied in the policies carried out in the territories. Indeed, I do not believe in an ecologically imposed from above and applied uniformly. Solutions are invented everywhere from the realities on the ground; They're not uniform. It is in this spirit that we have designed the mobility guidance law. It is also the meaning of the ecological transition contracts, for which I have responsibility, or of the innovation territories, in which the state and the communities mobilize to make fruitful local projects, built locally from the needs of the territories. Finally, it is the profound meaning of the bill for decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration, known as "3D", for which the consultations were initiated as close as possible to the territories. This bill reflects the strong will of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister to initiate a new act of decentralization and to invent new forms of collaboration with local authorities, with the possibility of experimentation. The issues of ecological transition, transportation and housing are, of course, at the heart of the issues to be addressed in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u44	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u45	I do not go back to the seriousness of the situation that we face. I just want to stress the need for a broad-spectrum policy, which involves the state, for major choices and investments, as well as the territories, for the local interpretation of these decisions, and the citizens, for their daily application. Corsica has a major role to play in the preservation of the natural environment – what it already does, moreover, through a series of actions carried out in natural parks, marine parks, as part of waste policy or firefighting, among others. For our part, we would like to see expanded resources and skills that enable Corsica and all the communities to take action in the fundamental field of energy transition and preparation for the future. I therefore stress the need for dialogue between the state and the communities. It is also necessary to equip the latter with skills that enable them to act better and more appropriately in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u46	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Larrivé, to put his question, No 909 on the southern bypass of Auxerre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u47	I have been a Member of Parliament for eight years and this must be the twelfth time that I have asked the Government about the issue of the southern bypass of Auxerre. This also proves that parliamentary activity is a school of modesty and tenacity. The file is pretty simple. In April 2012, the Government issued a declaration of public utility. Since then, this file has progressed at the speed of an asthmatic snail. It is necessary to find 120 million euros, but the key to financing this sum is not very clear, depending on whether the whole project is being discussed, the part of the project under the control of the State or the part of the project under the control of the department. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, I ask you two very simple things. The first, of course, is that this project of southern bypass of Auxerre, much expected by the Auxerre population, is well reflected in the various planning documents. It must, of course, be included in the State-region plan contract. It must also be included, from my point of view, in the regional planning, sustainable development and equality scheme of the territories, the SRADDET, prepared by the Regional Council – I am surprised that it is not yet included, but I wrote to the Commissioner of Inquiry to be included in this strategic document. Beyond these documents which I could almost call technocrats, what matters most is that the financial partners are gathered around the same table. My second request is therefore very simple and concrete: I would like that in spring 2020, after the municipal elections – so that this deadline has no impact on the file – in April, an arbitration meeting will be held at the Ministry of Transport with the various financial partners, namely the regional council of Burgundy-Franche-Comté, the departmental council of Yonne, the agglomeration community of Auxerrois and the city of Auxerre, and that we decide very simply who finances what and when so that we are finally able, collectively, to tell the inhabitants of Auxerre when the southern bypass of the city will be realized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u48	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u49	The southern bypass of Auxerre is fully in line with the Government's objectives, as has been pointed out on several occasions, particularly in the context of the work on the mobility guidance law. Thus, I confirm the willingness of the State to carry out this development, which aims to capture the transit traffic of heavy goods vehicles crossing the Auxerrois agglomeration by the RN77 and RN151 in order to better organize trade within it and to reduce the nuisances borne by the residents. As you said, the cost of the project is estimated at around 120 million euros. An amount of 4 million euros is included in the current mobility component of the contract of plan Etat-region Bourgogne-Franche-Comté, in order in particular to finance the acquisitions of land and to conduct the complementary studies. The departments of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, in particular the DREAL – Regional Directorate of the Environment, Planning and Housing – of Burgundy-Franche-Comté, are currently pursuing preparatory procedures, including land acquisitions and archaeological excavations. The Conseil départemental de l'Yonne is also pursuing agricultural and forestry land development. Our services are working to optimize the project to reduce its cost and facilitate its realization. These studies are expected to be completed by mid-2020 and will clarify the programme, schedule and final cost of the operation. In any event, the issue of the financing plan for the South Auxerre bypass will be included in the preparation of the next mobility contract. In view of the two-year extension of the implementation of the current State-region plan contracts, this new contractual framework will take effect on 1 January 2023, which will allow for a start-up from that date.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u50	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u51	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I hope that the sky will listen to you, or more precisely that the various administrations will listen to you. If this dossier can succeed, I am making a commitment here: I will welcome you with great pleasure to Auxerre to make you visit the region.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u52	Mrs Danièle Cazarian has the floor to raise her question, No. 900, concerning the reception of disabled persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u53	The inclusion of persons with disabilities in our country is one of the Government's priorities. I myself am regularly asked, in my territory, by caregivers who seek a suitable solution for the child or the adult they accompany. These exchanges attest to the will of our fellow citizens to find, as far as possible, solutions in the ordinary environment. Unfortunately, this is not always possible, and families are then faced with a combatant's journey to find a place in a specialized institution. The Creton amendment, which allows young adults who have reached the age limit of care to be kept in a medical-educational institute – EMI – until they have obtained a place in a specialised home – MAS – is a good mechanism, as it helps to avoid disruptions of journeys which are particularly detrimental to persons with disabilities. It could be extended to inclusive young children's care facilities when they exceed the age limit of 6 years before an institutional solution can be found. The exchanges I have had with the directors of establishments in the commune of Décines-Charpieu, a 100% inclusive territory, show that inclusion is not incompatible with institutional care, which is indispensable for the heaviest pathologies. On the contrary, all the exchanges I have had with the actors in the sector attest that it seems essential to provide for inclusion routes also for persons with disabilities who are hosted in institutions, in order to ensure their better development. In addition, the creation of additional places in institutions, particularly in specialized foster homes, remains a necessity in order to provide a solution to all the situations encountered, with a view to personalising the routes desired by the third interdepartmental committee on disability. Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the territories suffer from this lack of places, which leads to a congestion of the EMIs, who are sometimes obliged to keep residents three, four or five years after the age limit, or to take care by default in establishments not adapted to the individual. Do you intend to reorient the action of the regional health agencies – ARS – in order to create new places of reception for people with disabilities in order to combat the breakdown of care?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u54	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u55	Madam Member, you have asked Ms Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, who has instructed me to reply to you, about the possibility of keeping children with disabilities in institutions for the care of young children beyond the age limit of 6 years, in accordance with the principles of the Creton amendment, which allows for the temporary retention of adults over 20 years of age in an institution for disabled children and adolescents. If, as you say, this principle avoids breakages, it also leads to longer waiting lists for children with disabilities. These adults currently occupy 6,600 places in institutions in France. The Government was more than sensitive to the desire not to create a break in their lives or in the lives of children with disabilities. He is also aware of the need for appropriate support. We will overcome this difficulty by providing new responses to these adults, in conjunction with the departments, to reduce the access of children with disabilities to these institutions. The Government's policy aims to respond to these adults in order to facilitate children's access to appropriate institutions. Early childhood care facilities are not intended to replace medical and social care for children with disabilities. It is preferable to provide them with an appropriate response to their needs, rather than to keep them in structures that are inadequate for their age and needs, at the risk of reproducing the same bias as those mentioned above. Moreover, the law of 26 July 2019 for a school of trust, which provides for the lowering of the age of compulsory schooling to 3 years, allows for an earlier assessment of the special educational needs of children and for a more rapid consideration of the responses adapted to these needs. This significant legislative development offers a transition period of three years between the age of compulsory schooling and the age limit for childcare. The Act also provides for a transitional period for children in kindergarten for the public aged between 3 and 6 years. Finally, in order to avoid any disruption of career paths, parents can be accompanied as soon as their child has reached the age of 3 to initiate the procedures with the departmental house of disabled persons, allowing them to benefit from the mobilization of the network of professionals in order to progressively implement the solution most adapted to the needs of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u56	Mrs Danièle Cazarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. As I did a few months ago on the occasion of the inauguration of a respite house in Lyon, I invite Sophie Cluzel to visit the 100% inclusive territory of Décines-Charpieu and to meet all the actors who make him live on a daily basis in order to find the best solutions for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u58	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No 891, concerning employees of the SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u59	Madam Secretary of State, on the day after the first day of mobilization, I received a delegation of railway workers who wanted to talk to me about the situation of growing distrust of them and their demands, broader than the only issue of pension reform. Since the announcement of your reform, the Government seems to want to make railway workers responsible for the financial imbalance of the general pension system, but also the privileged ones of a public railway service which is no longer up to the level but nevertheless takes France hostage. The railway workers are living these attacks as a real embodiment of their business and their status. However, those I have received want to remind us that beyond their pension system, for which they are over-contributing, they are also fighting to preserve the quality of a public railway service for which they are guarantors. They denounce, for example, the questioning of the safety of passengers so that a driver does not find himself alone to face the consequences of an accident, as has happened recently. They are also campaigning for the revival of rail freight, which is fully part of the fight against global warming. Finally, they are convinced that the quality of service goes through human contact, at railway station counters, on docks or on trains. However, many jobs in these posts have been abolished. The railwaymen are not fooled. Neither do we! If your goal is to exhaust the SNCF over the years and orchestrate the degradation of its services with the sole aim of preparing its privatisation, then you are on the right track. Madam Secretary of State, the railwaymen ask you to stop this baton and give back to the SNCF its chandelier of old. What do you say to them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u60	The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u61	Mr President, you have drawn the attention of the Secretary of State for Transport to the consideration given to SNCF employees. I thank you for this question, which allows me, in these troubled times, to recall the Government's commitment to this national flagship. SNCF is the cornerstone of our railway system, an iconic company in our country, with an exceptional level of competence. I reiterate, if necessary, our estimate for all the 270,000 employees of this major railway group, which provides daily travel for 14 million passengers. It is a group that radiates and radiates France across 120 countries. We are all very proud of that. It was precisely in order to strengthen this enterprise and better prepare it for the challenges of tomorrow that the Government passed the law for a new railway pact of June 2018. Thanks to this reform and the reform of pension schemes, a new, more efficient and financially stable SNCF group will be able to develop. This reform was accompanied by the re-establishment of the railway's economic model: the State recovered €35 billion in SNCF Réseau's debt. This is a fine proof of esteem, which no government has brought so far. Conversely, maintaining the status quo for financially unbalanced systems such as the SNCF's special pension scheme would not serve the company or its employees. This ambitious reform has put in place a new social framework, which guarantees employees the maintenance of a high level of protection while placing the incumbent in a fair competitive position. The transfer of employment contracts has been planned and is accompanied by the maintenance of social guarantees. With the cessation of recruitment to the Staff Regulations on 1 January 2020, a protective social framework is in place at the branch level. In this context, pension reform is a general reform. It is motivated by a desire to strengthen the social justice of our pension system and does not claim to stigmatize any category of employees: it simply replaces a solidarity by branch with universal solidarity. With regard to the operation of trains with a single agent on board, as the Secretary of State for Transport has had the opportunity to remind him on numerous occasions, this is a procedure in force for almost forty years, on several thousand trains every day, perfectly approved by the safety agencies. Finally, with regard to rail freight, the Mobility Policy Act provides that a development strategy will be presented to Parliament by the end of the year. Without delay, the Ministry of the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has already assumed its responsibilities, in particular by bringing together the conditions for restarting the train of the early ones between Perpignan and Rungis since 15 December last. The social movement has not made it possible to achieve this recovery. I say it again here: our ambition is strong for SNCF. A new page has opened since its transformation into a unified public group on January 1, 2020. Thanks to the necessary reforms that we have been able to carry out, we have confidence in the capacity of this undertaking to successfully address the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u62	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u63	I hear your answer, Madam Secretary of State, but in fact, very concretely, what steps are you taking to support and develop rail freight? There have never been so many trucks on the roads and the means removed at the small stations, which can ensure the proximity, the relays, alter a little more each day the ability to develop this mode of transport more virtuous. Aren't we in an aberration? How do you work with economic actors? All of these issues are a source of concern to railway workers about the future of SNCF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u64	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u65	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u66	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to put her question, No. 916, on the inclusion of disabled pupils.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u67	My question was initially addressed to the Secretary of State for Disability, whose absence I deeply regret as much as I know that her convictions are strong with regard to the inclusion of students with disabilities. I have no doubt about yours, Secretary of State; However, I regret the progress of these meetings, during which a member of the Government is asked to answer all questions, in all areas – the exercise is difficult for you and for us. On 25 October, at the beginning of the Toussaint's school holidays, I wrote to the Minister of National Education and Youth to draw his attention to the very urgent and worrying situation created by the lack of accompanying students with disabilities – AESH. In the department of Puy-de-Dôme alone, 71 pupils with disabilities suffer daily from the absence of accompanying students, despite the notifications of the departmental house of disabled persons – CDMH – to which they belong, most of which were issued and duly communicated to the national education services from the beginning of the school year 2019. As a result, these children are not accompanied in their schooling, despite the variety of difficulties recognized to them: autistic spectrum disorders, lack of attention, mobility or autonomy problems related to their affection, etc. Most of them have been without support for almost six months, and therefore cannot take advantage of their presence in school by building apprenticeships. Many of their teachers also suffer from this lack of human assistance. Some students have not even been able to complete their school year to date, as human support is absolutely essential. The Minister of National Education and Youth finally replied to me, long after my request, by a long three-page letter promoting the theoretical merits of inclusive school, but not providing any solution to the 71 concrete situations I had mentioned. For having spoken with many parliamentary colleagues, I understood that the situation in Puy-de-Dôme was not exceptional. My question is simple, Mr Secretary of State: do you think that these students, their families and their teachers can be content with words and theory, while they simply ask that the human accompaniment decided by the CDMH be finally granted them, almost six months after the school year?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u68	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u69	Please excuse the absence of the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, Sophie Cluzel. Since the 2019 school year, a new training framework has been applied, entitled "Training the Teacher of the 21st Century", which makes the inclusion of pupils a fully-fledged training axis for first- and second-degree teachers. This year, more than 2,500 teachers will also benefit from national initiative training modules. In addition, 1,500 teachers prepare each year for the certificate of professional fitness for inclusive education practices. The circular of 5 June 2019 for an inclusive school asks the academies to include in the academic and departmental training plans a three-hour module dedicated to the respective positioning of the AESHs and teachers in class situations, as well as a six-hour module allowing to acquire the necessary knowledge to plan the most suitable educational arrangements. Finally, since the 2019 school year, the Cap école inclusive platform offers simple teaching resources to teachers, in addition to the face-to-face training modules offered to them at the national, academic and departmental levels. For its part, the personalized education project – PPS – is developed by the CDMH. It follows an identification of the student's needs by the student's multidisciplinary evaluation team. It is then validated and notified by the Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities. Teachers have no responsibility for writing this PPS – the work on the inclusive journey booklet does not go back to this regulation. The public service of the inclusive school strengthens cooperation between national education professionals and the medical and social sector in schools, building on several elements: the strengthening of the regional steering between the rectorates and the ARS, the creation of territorial mobile teams to support schools, the experimentation of an inclusive localised support hub reinforced with medical and social support by the academy as early as the start of 2019, or the doubling of the outsourced teaching units – UEE – of the medico-social sector by 2022. The circular also introduces support and support training for the development of cooperation projects involving RSAs, CDMHs and medical and social institutions. Finally, since the adoption of the law of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities, the number of pupils with disabilities – including mental ones – welcomed to school has tripled from 118000 in 2006 to nearly 361500 in 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u70	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u71	You have recalled all the good measures that have been taken, including in the last two years, and which have made it possible to increase the reception of children with disabilities at school – which I welcome. However – and I ask you to convey this message to the Minister of National Education and Youth and to the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons – in the Puy-de-Dôme, today, the five-year-old Tom, with a mitochondrial disease, has not been accompanied since the start of his school in Pont-du-Château. Lou-Ann, who was also five years old, despite a notification from the CDMH of January 2019, suffered the same situation in her school in Châtel-Guyon. Without help, her teacher has just indicated that if no solution were found, she would have no alternative but to direct Lou-Ann to a localized unit for school inclusion – ULIS – as soon as next year. I will not list the 71 students who are in a similar situation. I ask, however, that the priority that this government says is giving to inclusive school, along television sets and interviews, finally become a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u73	Mr Raphaël Gérard, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 899, concerning the occupation of rural care.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u74	As a Member of Parliament for a rural constituency, I wish to convey the concerns raised on the ground by a recommendation from the parliamentary mission led by Ms Alice Thourot and Mr Jean-Michel Fauvergue calling for the merger of the municipal police and rural guards. In view of the consequences of such a merger in terms of staff training, terms and conditions of employment and remuneration for local and regional authorities, your department indicated last October that consultation would be necessary prior to any legislative changes. I therefore hope that, in the context of the citizens' consultation prior to the drafting of the White Paper on Internal Security, specific attention will be paid to rural issues, particularly in place of the rural guards. Although their number is decreasing, the latter play a fundamental role in small rural communes, since they contribute to the rural police in accordance with article L. 2213-17 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities. In the event that a municipal police force is mutualised at the level of several communes with less than 5000 inhabitants, it cannot replace the role of proximity and maintenance of the social link provided by the rural guards in areas with a territorial and social divide. In addition, the merger of the cadres of the rural guards and the municipal police would lead to a risk of impoverishment of the future employment scheme with regard to the specific tasks assigned to the rural guards in the area of biodiversity conservation – in particular with regard to hunting, in accordance with article L. 428-20 of the Environmental Code – or with the water police, in accordance with article L. 216-3 of the Environmental Code. While I am not opposed to the creation of a municipal and rural police force, I would like to see all possible avenues considered to reinforce the role of rural guards in rural areas: I am thinking in particular of the generalization of the partnership agreements between the state and the rural guards, aimed at promoting better collaboration with the gendarmerie forces and responding to the challenges of coordination, territorial networking and global security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u75	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u76	The rural guards carry out essential tasks in our countryside: they can, in particular, search for and find violations related to the devastation of crops, the slaughter of trees, the poisoning of animals, the breakage of fences or the voluntary fires. They are also involved in water policing, wildlife protection, hunting, fishing, nature reserves and national parks. They have common ground with their municipal police colleagues to fulfil the tasks entrusted to them by the mayor in the exercise of his police powers and to assume judicial police powers, since they are also assistant judicial police officers. The Ministry has chosen to have several missions of the rural guards converge with those of the municipal police officers. I will mention a number of examples: in the field of armaments, the training of the two professions is now aligned; in the area of road safety, a 2017 regulatory text has expanded the scope of offences that rural guards can see; More recently, with regard to file access, the decree of 24 May 2018 granted municipal police officers, as well as rural guards, direct, conditional access to information on driving licences and grey cards; Finally, the law of 27 December 2019 on the involvement in local life and the proximity of the public action added the rural guards to the list of agents entitled to ascertain the offences relating to the disposal of waste. The merger of the cadres of rural guards and municipal police officers was proposed in the report of MPs Alice Thourot and Jean-Michel Fauvergue. In particular, it is motivated by the declining demographics of the rural guards. This hypothesis is currently being examined in the context of the work of the White Paper on Internal Security, the conclusions of which can be used as a basis for the drafting of a policy and programming law, in order to check whether a merger can be envisaged without calling into question any of the powers currently vested in the rural guards, and in a logic of preserving the presence of municipal agents with police powers in rural areas – knowing that, of course, the partnerships between the rural guards and the State services, in particular the national gendarmerie, are sought and encouraged.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u77	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u78	Here we are confronted with a real subject of rurality, and reflection must be based on the reality of the territories. In the community of communes of Haute Saintonge for example – 129 communes, a city-centre of 3400 inhabitants, Jonzac, and two municipal police officers – some rural communes are more than 80 kilometres away from the city-centre. The reorganisation of the gendarmerie, which is beginning to bear fruit, gave some local elected officials the feeling that their territory was forgotten. As soon as community work is carried out with elected officials, citizens and gendarmerie forces, the rural guard can become a key element of daily security arrangements in the most remote territories, which last year suffered a resurgence of criminal acts of all kinds: robberies, assaults, etc. In fact, this impression would need to be corrected by giving greater support to rural areas. This is a very strong demand from mayors. As for the downsizing, in my opinion it is partly due to the lack of attractiveness of an unknown profession – the clichés on the rural guard with its drum and charged with municipal announcements persist. However, this is a key function, and it would have to be upgraded by a regulatory review of the career path of the rural guards, as it would be a guarantee of attractiveness for a profession that has a real reason to be in rural areas today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u79	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor to put her question, No 903, on appointments in the prefecture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u80	"There is no longer a free time range for your appointment request. Please try again at a later date."This, Secretary of State, is the phrase that has been read too often and for too long months by most foreigners residing in Île-de-France who are seeking to apply for or renew their residence permit. Indeed, since the dematerialization of applications, it has become extremely difficult to get an appointment because of the lack of available slots. Faced with the impossibility of getting an appointment, queues reappear in front of the prefectures of Évry, Créteil, Bobigny or Nanterre, as well as in front of the various sub-prefectures of these departments, notably that of Palaiseau, located in my constituency. In the hope of getting an appointment by moving physically, some even make the choice to sleep in front of the prefecture, even during the winter. In addition to the inconvenience caused by this situation, there is another issue of access to employment. Indeed, for persons who have their fixed-term contracts terminated during the renewal period of their residence permit and are waiting for an appointment, this expectation may make them miss opportunities to find a job. It is a pity that administrative difficulties disrupt integration or may be a cause of economic insecurity. On the other hand, computer robots capable of booking slots are operated by networks whose aim is to sell between 50 euros and 300 euros the slots available to desperate applicants. A few weeks ago, the prefecture of Seine-Saint-Denis filed a complaint for fraud and obstructed the operation of an automated data system. However, I would like to conclude on a more optimistic note, welcoming the commitment of the Prefect de l'Essonne, whom I met a few months ago in this regard. I am pleased that the problem is being addressed and mobilized to address it. Mr Secretary of State, is an audit planned in Île-de-France of the dematerialization of appointment-making, or even nationally if other regions are involved? What measures have been or will be taken to prevent the black market for appointments? Above all, how can we absorb the large flow of appointment requests, in order to guarantee a quality public service to people who are in a regular situation in our country and who are taking the necessary steps to remain so?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u81	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u82	The Ile-de-France prefectures responsible for immigration and integration deal with a very large volume of applications for titles. For the departments of the small crown, the average number of users received each day varies between 1400 and 2500. Making appointments via the Internet has made it possible to improve the reception conditions significantly, since the user is invited to present himself a quarter of an hour before the time of the appointment; These people don't have to wait in the morning or even the night before. However, very high demand can still lead to unsatisfactory reception conditions – you echo it, Member. The prefectures provide continuous work to remedy this: extension of schedules, differentiated management of applications, digital mediation, etc. While peaks in attendance may occasionally interfere with access to the appointment module, time zones are regularly put online, and Internet access rates have been increased. In order to limit the mass capture of appointment slots by robots or people who would then illegally sell them, an anti-robot device was introduced in May 2019. The prefectures of Hauts-de-Seine, Seine-Saint-Denis and Val-de-Marne also filed a complaint against what is akin to a misappropriation of procedure intended to fuel prosperous traffic to the detriment of the most fragile. More generally, the Ministry of the Interior is currently working on the implementation of a new, more efficient appointment module. In addition, the Government's objective is to reduce the time taken to process applications for residence permits. At the national level, the processing time for the first applications for admission to the residence was reduced by almost 17 days between 2018 and 2019. For renewals, it increased from 61 days in 2018 to 57.8 days in the first three quarters of 2019. Finally, despite a context of downsizing in prefectures, since 2016, 391 jobs have been created in the services responsible for foreigners. The legislative and regulatory developments of recent years have made it possible to limit the movement of users, while securing their administrative situation. Be assured, Madam Member: the agents of the prefectures remain fully mobilized, seeking the best balance between the number of users accepted and the ability to investigate applications for titles within a reasonable time. Thank you for welcoming the work of the Prefect of the Essonne and his services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u83	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u84	Thank you, Secretary of State, for that answer. This is a problem that I had known about even before my term began, as part of my work as a public writer. If I see a positive development and an improvement in care, I will nevertheless remain attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u85	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor to put his question, No. 913, on law enforcement equipment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u86	Mr Secretary of State, the prohibition of the use of low-cases, known as thigh cases, for the carrying of weapons by police forces continues to be problematic. This prohibition raises questions as specialized police units, as well as municipal police and the gendarmerie, are allowed to use them. On the other hand, many police officers suffer from back problems, often related to the wearing of the weapon belt and the many equipment they have to carry. Several have recently been called to order for having obtained by their own means a thigh case on medical recommendation. Many police officers, as a result of their back pain, are prohibited by the doctor from being on public roads or even prescribe a stoppage of work. Your services, based on studies that they would have carried out, argue that the thigh case would facilitate theft – this was the answer that had been given to the written question No 2697 by our colleague Julien Dive. However, the case is the same as that of the belt case: it has the same safety features and is simply adapted to the thigh by a specific plate. Beyond that, it is difficult to understand that there is a security problem for the police, but not for the gendarmes! Many police officers and gendarmes indicate that the use of the thigh case is more appropriate when wearing a bulletproof vest. An authorization for the use of the thigh case, which seems useful in certain contexts and significant for certain morphologies, would meet both a strong demand from your staff and occupational health issues. A suitable training, like what is done in the gendarmerie, would obviously be the necessary corollary, but this is a difficulty of implementation negligible in relation to the added value brought by the thigh case. Are there any regulatory developments in the National Police with a view to strengthening equality in working conditions between law enforcement agencies and promoting the occupational health of our police officers, who are currently in great demand?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u87	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u88	Mr President, the issue of the use of the thigh case by police officers is a regular one, because it is a claim by some of the staff and their unions. In 2017, it was decided to conduct a professional and objective evaluation of the equipment by police fire monitors. The results of this evaluation showed very clearly the limits and faults of the thigh case. Ergonomic and safety constraints have been identified, particularly for missions to sensitive urban areas. An instruction in October 2017 provides answers to frequently asked questions – and that you are taking back – about access to the weapon when wearing certain bulletproof vests. With regard to back problems, which you also mention, they are mainly the result of the wrong use of the belt. The decision taken in 2017 was motivated by the desire to ensure the best possible security for the police. The tests and their findings had been disseminated to the police and trade unions in order to ensure that they were fully understood by the staff. In this connection, I would like to point out, since you are referring to the gendarmerie, that each of the two forces has, of course, its own constraints and its specificities. Nevertheless, the claims remain. Our position, to the Minister of the Interior and to me, is not dogmatic; it is motivated solely by the operational and security concerns of the personnel. That is why, with the Minister of the Interior, we have, with the contacts that we have both had on the ground – I was with regard to myself a few weeks ago at the Bourges police station – and because the staff and the trade unions reiterated their wish to be able to use a thigh case, initiated a new reflection on the subject within the national police, which will be accompanied by new tests carried out by field staff. In this regard, I can tell you that an evaluation of a mid-sleeve case will be carried out, in addition to the tests of thigh cases. These tests, carried out by professionals, will take place very soon in order to determine whether, technically and operationally, this equipment complies with the requirements of safety and comfort of use. You will have understood, honourable Member, that my answer is voluntarily open: we wish to relaunch a reflection on the use of the thigh case. We need to understand what is happening, without prejudice or dogmatic stance. Of course, we hear the demands of trade unions and staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u89	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u90	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you very much for this opening, which was, I think, necessary in view of the issues raised by the use of this case both in terms of safety, after a season of tears, and in terms of health. In the Châtellerault police station, a town in my constituency, many people, who are prone to lumbar pain – which may not be solely related to the port of equipment – are absent, or cannot go to work on the highway. In this period of over-solicitation of law enforcement, it would be a good idea to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u91	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 915, on the damage caused by drought in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u92	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of many of our fellow citizens, whose homes have suffered significant damage as a result of recurrent episodes of drought and heat. In Sarthe, inhabitants of rural or urban communes – as far as my constituency is concerned: in Ardenay-sur-Mérize, Parigné-l'Évêque, Savigné-l'Évêque, Le Mans Métropole, as well as in neighbourhoods of the city of Le Mans – their houses are crumbling. These disorders are caused by the deformation of the soil after the swelling and retraction of the clays on which many houses are built. Reparations are often large and difficult to bear by low-income families, thus losing their assets and remaining in debt. If the compensation procedure exists, it is complex and its results are random. Each disaster sufferer must report the problem to the town hall, then the town hall seizes the prefecture by mentioning the dates of the drought; The prefecture, in turn, seized the Ministry of the Interior, and an interministerial commission decided by commune whether or not to recognize the state of natural disaster. Decisions sometimes vary while only a few kilometres separate the municipalities, sites or dwellings concerned. The inhabitants feel that the administration minimizes the phenomenon and that the methods of compensation are not favourable to them. In particular, an important criticism is made of the lack of transparency regarding the meteorological and technical data used and the impossibility of requesting adversarial expertise. I would like to know the number of cases filed by the 20 or so Sarthoese municipalities and the number of those declared admissible. I would like to know whether an evaluation of the functioning of the bodies and the conditions of compensation has been or will be carried out. I propose that consideration be given to the development of insurance legislation in the field of natural disasters with a view to improving care. We have been waiting for the reform of the natural disaster regime for several months! I would like to know what steps you are planning to take to ensure that the cases are reviewed and the victims compensated as soon as possible. While 10 million euros were released to help the people left on the tile, in the Sarthe, we did not see the color of this money! It is also impossible to use the Barnier Fund to compensate the victims, while its amount is capped and a surplus of EUR 137 million has been reinjected into the general budget of the State. What about the dipping of these credits? Will it be necessary to go to litigation to get an answer? Finally, I would like to point out that there is a decrease in the number of staff in the case processing department in the Sarthe: today, only five people are working there, compared to fifteen before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u93	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u94	First of all, I would like to point out that, in order to recognise the state of natural disaster in a commune, the administrative authority decides on the abnormal intensity of the agent causing the damage, and not on the extent of the damage themselves. The distinction is important. Each municipality that has submitted an application is, of course, the subject of a special examination. In view of the slow kinetics of the drought hazard and the scientific knowledge available, two criteria are taken into account. One is geotechnical: a base ground of constructions made of clay sensitive to the phenomena of withdrawal and swelling. The other is meteorological: an abnormal drought of the soil. With regard to the transparency of the conditions for examining applications, the method used to study the situation of each municipality concerned by this phenomenon is detailed in the circular of 10 May 2019. The municipalities and the victims may also request from their prefecture all technical expertise and data used to investigate the files, in accordance with the provisions on access to administrative documents. This methodology was applied to all communal applications filed for the 2018 drought-rehydration episode. With regard to the Sarthe, thirty-two applications were examined and six communes were recognised in a state of natural disaster by decrees published in the Official Journal between June and December 2019. Of course, I did not ignore the effects on some buildings of differential land movements caused by drought and soil rehydration. But only drought episodes with a proven abnormal intensity give rise to a recognition of the state of natural disaster. The Government is committed to continuing the successful reform of the natural disaster regime, which must be adapted to changing phenomena and exposure to risk. Several areas of work have already been identified: making the recognition procedure more transparent and effective, and improving the tools for preventing natural hazards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u95	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u96	Mr. Secretary of State, your answer points to transparency efforts. In order to move the issues forward, the existing funds, in particular the Barnier Fund, must now be used effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u97	Mr Ugo Bernalicis, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 890, concerning the pensions of technical and scientific police personnel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u98	Mr. Secretary of State, the staff of the scientific police, those whom we like to call "experts", are angry. It has been a long time since the Ministry of the Interior showed contempt for them. But here I want to denounce the repression they have been subjected to since December by local police hierarchies. Indeed, while many technical and scientific police services wanted to exercise their right to strike, a right of constitutional value and of which they enjoy, many hierarchies have subjected them to particularly strong, sometimes illegal, pressure. PTS officers, the technical and scientific police, have legitimate, old claims to change their status. I would like to emphasize the self-denial of these police officers, whose work deserves your full attention, Secretary of State. A PTS intervention takes place every minute. In 2016, 72,500 offenders were identified with 36500 papillary traces and 36,000 genetic profiles; One million signal cards have been produced. However, it is not uncommon for services to consist of only three or four persons. In addition to their 40.5 hours per week, they provide a twenty-one hours to six hours in the morning, and may be recalled outside these hours. Many examples show that the legal length of 11 hours of rest between two on duty is not respected. These problems of manpower and hourly amplitude of work result in moral and physical wear and tear. After years of practice, PTS police officers compete to join other jurisdictions or apply for their secondment to administrative positions, despite the resulting loss of salary. Hence consequences on their health, on their privacy: divorce, taking medication, burn-out... In the face of this reality, what is the attitude of the Ministry of the Interior? In 2015, two projects had been established following negotiations with the Interunion: the National Union of Administrative, Technical and Scientific Personnel of the Ministry of the Interior – SNIPAT –, the National Union of Scientific Police Personnel – SNPPS – and the National Union of Administrative, Technical and Scientific Personnel of the Ministry of the Interior – SNAPATSI. None of these projects have been successful, due to opposition from asset unions, commissioners, officers, officers and guards, such as the SGP Police Unit, as well as a lack of political will. The current government does not proceed otherwise. The inter-union meeting was received on 13 November by the Prime Minister's office, which considered its statutory claims legitimate, but indicated that the ball was in the camp of the Ministry of the Interior. However, busy passing their least whims, such as the substantial increase in premiums, to the unions of assets, the Minister of the Interior ignores the demands of the 2600 scientific personnel. Worse, he pretends not to be aware of the dangerousness of their missions, despite being recognized by the memorandums of service and command instructions in force in the national police. It would be time, Mr. Secretary of State, to make a public statement on these claims, and to share with us your position on the reform of PTS staff pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u99	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u100	Science personnel are contributing to the elucidation of crimes and offences not only in a decisive but also in a growing way, as they are increasingly being asked to travel on the ground to record traces and clues. In April 2017, the Ministry of the Interior created a central technical and scientific police department, the SCPTS. In order to continue this rationalization, a national service of PTS will be established in 2021. The situation of scientific personnel is therefore an important subject, and their commitment is unanimously recognized. I would like to highlight the progress made since 2015 for PTS staff. They have benefited from improvements due to the 2015 protocol known as PPCR – career paths, careers and remuneration – and the April 2016 protocol for the enhancement of careers, skills and professions in the national police. In addition, nearly EUR 1 million was planned to pay for overtime worked in 2019 by PTS specialist and technical staff in December. In 2019, we worked in discussions with trade union organizations to improve the industry. For example, Category C specialist staff should be assigned to Category B in the technical corps. The latter corps will be "repyramided" by a reform of the paths of advancement to the various grades and by an increase in the volumes of advancement. Finally, access to the engineering corps, thus to category A, will be facilitated for technicians. Not only is the statutory reform current, but the issue has made significant progress and could be implemented in 2020. In order to take account of developments in trades and issues, the SCPTS also developed in December a new instruction on the employment doctrine of the PTS, replacing a 1995 text. All these measures stem from the commitment made by Christophe Castaner upon his arrival at the Ministry of the Interior, which gave rise to a letter addressed to the trade unions. Finally, in the framework of the Government's consultation on pensions, consideration was given to the conditions for applying the rules envisaged for the draft universal system for PTS personnel, taking into account the diversity of their missions and assignments. This reflection is carried out in close connection with the Secretary of State for Pensions and in liaison with the trade union organisations representing the staff. Member, these agents have administrative status; equipped with bulletproof vests, they accompany the police officers to the field. In general, their missions have evolved, so it is necessary to take the time to reflect on the nature of these missions and the conditions under which they perform them. This is what we are currently doing with trade union organisations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u101	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 905, concerning the Louis Pasteur hospital in Dole.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u102	My question, addressed to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, concerns the future of the Louis Pasteur hospital in Dole. Dole is the largest municipality in the Jura department and is located in the heart of the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region. It has a well-functioning hospital, adapted to its population. In recent years, this hospital has made a lot of efforts: under the impetus of its successive directors, it has begun to absorb its financial deficit, at the cost of abolitions of posts and consolidations of services. Rather than suffering, doctors, caregivers, whom I congratulate and greet, have been able to move forward. The ambulance now accounts for 63% of surgical procedures: Louis Pasteur follows national guidelines. Thanks to the voluntarism of the elected representatives and all the staff, a rapprochement with the regional university hospital, the CHRU de Besançon, allowed to welcome in our hospital twenty-three new surgeons. Finally, a guard house will soon be opened with the support of the mayor. Despite this real local dynamics, persistent rumours announce the imminent closure of conventional and scheduled surgery. Such a decision would be catastrophic for the establishment, and especially for the health of Jurassians. First of all, the Besançon hospital does not have the means to compensate for this closure. Next, Dole will soon have new surgical blocks, after a complete renovation. Finally, the removal of conventional surgery would reduce the permanent presence of surgeons and anaesthetists, which would make it difficult for the emergency and maternity services. That is why I ask the minister to make it clear to us whether there is a need to close conventional surgery at Louis Pasteur Hospital in Dole.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u103	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u104	Mr Buzyn, would you excuse Agnès Buzyn, who has been detained. I will share with you the information that she has given me for your benefit. Indeed, the Louis Pasteur hospital in Dole faced significant financial difficulties. The teams have made every effort to address this deficit; The Government is committed to ensuring that the Dole Hospital can provide its patients with care, treatment, meeting their expectations and demands. The proper functioning of this centre is clearly indispensable to the region and its inhabitants. This is why it must adapt, evolve, in order to continually increase its medical performance. As such, he signed a performance contract, put in place at the end of 2018, one of the main axes of which is the collaboration with Besançon in the field of outpatient surgery. In December 2018, a cooperation agreement with €3.3 million in funding was signed between the two institutions and the regional health agency, the RSA. The Dole Hospital has always been heavily involved in the development of outpatient surgery. The very innovative project of organisational cooperation with the CHRU de Besançon will eventually make Dole a specialized technical platform, carrying out a panel of specific outpatient interventions, the management of which will be filiarized with Besançon. To date, residents of the Dolois basin already have access, on Louis Pasteur's site, to CHRU specialists for a wide range of advanced consultations: urology, oto-rhino-laryngology, anaesthesia, orthopaedics, maxillo-facial surgery, digestive surgery, ophthalmology and plastic surgery. This ultra-specialised offer in the vicinity of patients demonstrates a strong willingness on the part of the actors to make the Dole Hospital the regional reference institution for outpatient surgery. Mr. Member, you were talking about new outpatient surgery blocks. We would have wished them for the beginning of the year 2021; due to technical constraints, they will eventually not be available until early 2023. The transition phase of the cooperation project requires a lot of work, which is continuing between the ARS, the hospital centre, the CHRU, with the aim of achieving in the coming months, or at least in the first half of this year. This is the information that the Minister of Health wanted to bring to your attention, knowing your commitment, and our commitment to all, to the territory of the Republic of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u105	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u106	I take it from the response of the Minister of Solidarity and Health that you are transmitting to me that it is not a question of closing down, today, the service of conventional surgery but of continuing the work engaged with the various institutions, in particular the CHRU de Besançon, so that the organization of the offer of care benefits all the inhabitants of this territory. We'll all take care of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u107	Mr Jacques Marilossian, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 896, concerning the consequences of Brexit on defence and security markets.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u108	My question, which is addressed to the Minister of Armed Forces, also concerns the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. It concerns the effectiveness of the provisions of Article L. 2353-1 of the Public Order Code, establishing the principle of European preference for defence or security markets, taking into account the possible loss of European citizenship of British companies following Brexit. Indeed, the effective exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union will result in British companies no longer becoming EU nationals. A transition period will begin in three days, at twenty-two specific hours. It will last until 31 December 2020, or even longer if a trade agreement is not reached. However, as a result of this transition period, British companies are likely to be awarded defence contracts subject to the European preference rule, even though they may no longer meet the conditions for participation laid down by public purchasers under the law. Thus, public purchasers will find themselves in particular unable to act against their suppliers if they are now nationals of a State which has unilaterally decided to free itself from the European legal environment and the European Court of Justice. This period prior to the effective exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union raises an unprecedented problem. The subject is all the more crucial since it is likely to affect the interests of defence and state security, but also to compromise the development of the European industrial and technological defence base. What measures does the Government intend to take in the short term with regard to market allocations that may occur during the phase prior to the date of full effectiveness of Brexit, i.e. the transitional period?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u109	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u110	On 31 January, the United Kingdom will leave the European Union. The Government has long prepared the modalities of this exit in order to anticipate the consequences for our citizens and for our businesses. With regard to this aspect of security and defence, which is particularly crucial in the current international context, we need, more than ever, a powerful French tool and a Europe of defence. France has transposed a 2009 directive that governs the procedure for the award of defence and security public contracts. It has thus chosen to introduce a principle, optional, of European preference. The Ministry of Armed Forces has chosen to systematically restrict its markets to companies which are nationals of a Member State of the European Union or of the European Economic Area. However, if we do not have the know-how we need, European preference falls. Thus, with the actual entry of Brexit, unless the agreement on future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom provides for special provisions to this effect, British companies will be excluded from almost all French defence or security procurement. However, contracts in progress, or previously with British companies, will continue to be executed until they are completed. In the context of the execution of an administrative contract under French law, the contract holder shall remain bound to respect national and European law, even if its registered office no longer falls within the competence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The situation is thus equivalent to that currently in force with non-European economic operators. The difficulties generated by the effective exit of the British will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis and with flexibility, if necessary via amendments, in order to avoid, in particular, any disruption of the conduct of the arms operations, necessary for the re-launching of our armies, desired by the President of the Republic and provided for in the military programming law 2019-2025. In this context, a significant effort has been made in investment and equipment. Finally, let us remember that beyond this fateful date, we will retain historical, strategic links with the United Kingdom. British and French are members of the United Nations Security Council. This history, within the framework of defence and security policies, will remain intense. The President of the Republic recalled, on the occasion of his speech to the armies at the Hotel de Brienne on 13 July 2018, the privileged relationship that unites us in the United Kingdom, evoking a "strategic [...] relationship, deep and which will continue to deepen", despite Brexit. On the evening of 31 January, our common security interests will remain the same, even if the British have left the European Union. They will remain in a geographical area, Europe, in which we will continue to work together for the security of the French, the British and Europeans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u111	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor to put his question, No. 917, on the autonomy of the University of Saint-Étienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u112	Following the outcry raised locally by the announcement of an imminent absorption of the Jean-Monnet-Saint-Étienne University by the University of Lyon, the vote on the statutes of a new single institution by the board of directors of the Stéphanois University, which was due to take place in mid-December, was postponed. This vote is of vital importance, one might even say, since it will note the disappearance of the Jean-Monnet University as a higher education and independent research institution and that of its legal and legal personality. For the past fifty years, in the continuity of the visionary decisions of former mayor Michel Durafour, Stéphanois elected officials from all walks of life have fought to obtain the creation of the University of Saint-Étienne, its autonomy and a multidisciplinary offer of quality in the territory of Stéphanois. Today, the university has more than 20,000 students, and many of its research laboratories are contributing to the building of national and international cooperation. Some are leaders in their field. Cooperation with Lyon institutions already exists, and it works! The planned dilution of our university has its origin in an ambition to count on the international level and to obtain eligibility under its new Lyon name, to additional financing of the IDEX program type – initiatives of excellence –, without guarantee. The disappearance of the Jean-Monnet University as an institution of higher education and autonomous research will be accompanied by the disappearance of almost all decision-making and steering powers in St.Etienne, which could, in view of the imbalance between the two entities, reduce the supply of higher education in the first, second or third cycles in Saint-Etienne. Is it necessary to make such a radical choice, which will not offer any possibility of turning back, making our territory definitely an academic branch of Lyon? In fact, other statutes remain possible and have been chosen by other French institutions in the context of merger proceedings; They would allow our university to participate, as a full-fledged component, in these major projects, while maintaining a legal and legal personality as well as a strong identity in our territory. What does the Government intend to do to preserve the autonomy and decision-making power of the University of Saint-Étienne within the framework of the new University of Lyon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u113	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u114	You mentioned the disappearance of the University of Saint-Étienne, but I would like to remind you, in the preamble, that teaching and research have a good future in Saint-Étienne. This centre of excellence is designed to develop and assert itself at the international level. This ambition of outreach is shared by the Government, by you, by the Jean-Monnet University, with its 450 teachers-researchers and 360 doctoral students. As you pointed out, this university is a leader in many areas. This ambition is at the heart of the future investment programme, which, as you have pointed out, includes a very specific action, initiatives of excellence, IDEX. In concrete terms, this action provides financial support for the research, training and international attractiveness policies of the most dynamic universities in order to form world-class university centres comparable to the world's best institutions. IDEX thus allows the winners to benefit from a tens of millions of euros to enable the institutions carrying out projects to carry out an ambitious policy in the field of research and international attractiveness. It is a significant support to attract the best international researchers, to accompany laboratories, to support professors, lecturers and the entire higher education and research community in a given university site. The universities of Lyon I, Lyon III and Saint-Étienne, but also the École normale supérieure de Lyon, have been involved for many years in the construction of a project that could win IDEX. The project presented by the Lyon institutions and the University of Saint-Étienne was selected in 2017, not by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation but by the IDEX jury itself, which is an international jury chaired by Jean-Marc Rapp, former rector of the University of Lausanne. In 2017, however, the IDEX jury asked the Lyon and Saint-Étienne project for guarantees in terms of governance and organisation – the fears expressed on this subject were therefore heard. The project thus received the label on a probationary basis. Everyone will understand that the emergence of a world-class university site should not undermine important public service missions, in particular the access of students in the Territory to higher education, which requires enhanced coordination among its members. The IDEX jury, meeting again in November 2019 for a mid-term review, concluded that IDEX funding was renewed. This decision was taken unanimously by the jury as the guarantees provided by the project-carrying institutions were convincing. The Ordinance on Experimental Academic Clusters, adopted on the basis of the ESSOC Act – for a State at the service of a trust society – allows each group of institutions to rethink the institutions and the legal levers for working collectively since 1 January 2019. The promoters of the Lyon/Saint-Étienne project have made the choice of moving towards a target university that will not erase in any way the offer of training or research, nor the autonomy of the governance of the Saint-Étienne site, which will be fully integrated into the target university. This is also point 2.6 of Book 1 of the strategic project. In other words, this IDEX project is not intended to restrict research or training in Saint-Étienne, but to bring it to the international level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u115	I wish I had answered you, but you have exhausted all the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u116	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, to put his question, No 892, on school directions in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u117	I would have liked to ask my question to the Minister of National Education and Youth, on an important subject, the suicide of a school principal in Pantin, Christine Renon. No less than 250 directors in Seine-Saint-Denis sent a letter to the minister, who did not reply. Despite this tragedy, contempt persists for this profession, which feels it painfully. Despite their great suffering, their mail was not answered. Unfortunately, parliamentary representation is treated with the same contempt. How can I decently and dignifiedly ask my question on such an important subject to a Secretary of State, present here, whose field of competence does not cover the entire field of national education and who is devoid of any hierarchical authority in this field, rather than to the Minister of National Education himself? You cannot leave this profession in such suffering, even though justice has just recognized the responsibility of the administration in the suicide of Christine Renon! How can you not reply to the letters of these school principals, or to the parliamentary representation by the voice of the Minister of National Education and Youth, the only recipient of this letter and only concerned with the question I wanted to ask this morning?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u118	Before I give the floor to Mr. Gabriel Attal, whose presence I welcome, I would like to remind you, Mr. Little – although it is not for me to do so – that Mr. Attal's State Secretariat is attached to the Ministry of National Education in the Government's organizational chart. Moreover, as you are certainly aware, the Government is free to choose its members who will be responsible for answering the questions posed to it. The question, which is not recent, led the Constitutional Council to rule on the matter in 1964 in a decision which I recall here: "It is for the Government to answer the questions of the members of Parliament; [...] the Government is therefore represented, in response to each of them, by that of its members appointed by the Prime Minister for that purpose. » The Government is present on the bench in accordance with our Constitution and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council. The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u119	Don't let him feel compelled to talk as long as Mr. Lemoyne does!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u120	I beg you, Mr Peu, to excuse the absence of Jean-Michel Blanquer, who, unable to be present this morning, instructed me to communicate to you the answer which he would have given you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u121	I didn't ask a question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u122	Your question, of which I thank you, concerns the status of principals; It gives us the opportunity to repeat, in front of the national representation, the emotion that was ours after the suicide of Christine Renon, school principal in Pantin last September. We immediately undertook a general inspection mission to determine the exact conditions of this tragedy and draw operational conclusions to prevent it from happening again. At the beginning of October, Jean-Michel Blanquer addressed all the trade union organisations meeting on the occasion of a ministerial technical committee on national education. In addition, a CHSCT – Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions – specifically dedicated to the prevention of suicidal acts among national education staff met on 6 November. As soon as he took up his duties, Jean-Michel Blanquer stressed the need to find solutions that could better support school principals in the performance of their missions. Indeed, the missions of the principals have changed: they have diversified and expanded, without any change in the status of the principals, as the report of the deputies Cécile Rilhac and Valérie Bazin-Malgras rightly pointed out in the summer of 2018. Nevertheless, no consensus has emerged on the issue. Our responsibility is therefore to find solutions that improve the situation of school principals, with the assistance of all trade union organisations. We have to face things and answer them. This is why the issue of missions and the valorisation of the role of director is being discussed within the framework of the Ministry's social agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u123	I do not consider this to be an answer, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u124	Mr. Little, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u125	Mr. Attal does not answer the question of the principals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u126	To fuel these discussions and to strengthen the consensus we need to reach, the Minister has initiated a broad consultation with school principals so that they can express their needs and vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u127	[[Mr Stéphane Peu gets up and gets ready to leave the Chamber]] I cannot consider this as an answer! You're just reading your cards! What a contempt for school principals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u128	Mr. Little, please. Only Mr Gabriel Attal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u129	This consultation was conducted from 13 November to 1 December this year through a questionnaire developed by DGESCO, the Directorate-General for School Education, with trade union organisations. The work we do with the trade union organisations should interest you, Mr. Member!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u130	Are you going, yes or no, to answer the letter of the 250 teachers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u131	Two thirds of school principals – you should also be interested in – or 29000 out of 45500 principals, participated in this consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u132	Stop reading your cards! Answer the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u133	Mr. Little, you yourself said you didn't ask a question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u134	Of the school principals who responded to the consultation, 86% chose to perform this function. They see their profession as versatile and responsible, satisfying but time-consuming.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u135	Stop reading your cards stupidly and go see what's going on in Seine-Saint-Denis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u136	I give you the results of the consultation that was conducted, but you obviously prefer the show.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u137	She killed herself for nothing, Mrs. Renon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u138	Mr Little, I reminded you earlier about the rules for an oral question-and-answer session without debate. You blame Mr Attal for not answering a question you say you did not ask: you must be consistent! Only Mr. Attal has the floor. You do not have to ask oral questions if you are not interested in the Government's position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u139	[[Mr Stéphane Peu quits the Chamber]] That's absurd! Ungrateful! He's just reading cards!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u140	The question of principals is a fundamental question that touches on the very essence of primary school, as Jean-Michel Blanquer had the opportunity to recall, and it is at the heart of the priority given to primary school. These issues are currently being worked on with trade union organisations. In particular, with regard to the Seine-Saint-Denis, where 62% of schools are part of a priority education network – REP – or of a reinforced priority education network – REP + – the exploitation of educational teams, on which the success of the children received depends, and which represents a campaign commitment by the President of the Republic, is a priority of the action of the Government and the Minister of National Education and Youth. I recall that EUR 137 million was mobilised between 2018 and 2020. In addition, with the doubling of the classes of CP and CE1 in REP and REP+, nearly 2500 teaching posts were created in Seine-Saint-Denis, where the State deploys considerable resources. Work is continuing within the framework of the social agenda mentioned by Jean-Michel Blanquer, who will have the opportunity to return very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u141	Mr. Laurent Garcia, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 914, concerning educational cities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u142	Pursuant to a decision of 5 September 2019, based on the Borloo report on city policy and on the experimentation carried out in Grigny in 2017, eighty major priority districts have integrated the new national system of educational cities, which aims to strengthen and better coordinate the educational care of young people between the ages of 3 and 25, from childhood to occupational integration, in neighbourhoods to date without social mix. The Hague Plateau, located in the Greater Nancy metropolis, is part of the labeled territories. This label is in addition to the various qualifiers and acronyms that have been on the list for several decades: ZEP – priority education area –, SFU – urban free zone –, EDI – dynamic integration area –, QPV – priority neighbourhood of city policy –, NPNRU – new national urban renewal programme – and I'm moving on. Yet, despite the deployment of significant and sustainable resources, the improvement seems to be stalling: the progress and success expected are not there, which generates a certain scepticism among actors engaged in the field with regard to this new mechanism. Mr Secretary of State, under what terms will educational cities be able to improve the efficiency of education and social policy? While several surveys show that school unfortunately reinforces social disparities, what new levers do you intend to activate to combat these determinisms? The educational city of the Hague Plateau covers three communes – including Laxou, of which I was the mayor – integrated into a metropolis. The colleges it houses are managed by the departmental council; The educational city is run by the prefecture and the rectorate, who must work together with representatives of the ministries of city policy and social cohesion. In these circumstances, how can effective consultation and cooperation be ensured? In which instances? At a time of modernisation and simplification of public action, how can we bring readability and coherence for families, actors and elected officials? Where public service could gain in quality and value, how can we embody and unite educational cities around appropriate practices? As the new public management has placed evaluation at the heart of the practices, how will the work of the policy committee set up on 26 November 2019 be conducted and how will the mechanism be evaluated? Finally, since the labels were awarded to the territories for three years, what are the objectives and indicators of success expected, at the end of this period, for the new educational cities?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u143	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u144	Mr Garcia, I apologize for the absence of Jean-Michel Blanquer, who asked me to answer you. Education is the first battleground for geographical and social mobility. The President of the Republic has clearly set the course through a strong ambition for our country: to restore a hope of progress to everyone and to revive the republican meritocracy. The school is more than ever the crucible of the Republic and the place of individual emancipation. Since its establishment, the Government has made education in the priority areas of city policy a key lever in the fight for social justice. This ambition has resulted in strong and concrete measures, such as the doubling of the CP and EC1 classes in the REP and REP+ zones or the creation of additional teaching posts, which now benefits 300,000 students in 10800 classes. At the start of the school year 2020, duplication will be extended to the main kindergarten section; It will be accompanied by a ceiling of 24 pupils per class in the main section, in CP and in CE1. We also mention the compulsory education from the age of 3 and the prohibition of class closures in rural areas without the prior agreement of the mayor, from the beginning of 2019 until the end of the quinquennium, in accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic. We wanted to go even further by creating the educational cities, the object of your question. This great ambition has been forged from the ground and from the initiatives led by the local elected representatives, by the state services and by the associations – in Grigny, as you pointed out, but also in Clichy-sous-Bois or in Nîmes. The State will accompany the eighty territories selected by committing almost 100 million euros until 2022. This project, which was born out of real co-construction work, concentrates additional resources in the territories most in need. The announcement of the labelling of eighty educational cities was made on 5 September; Since then, local actors have been working on their project. Today, we contract on the ground: mayors, DASEN – academic directors of the national education services – and prefects sign framework agreements of objectives and launch actions. We do not share your view that the school is responsible for increasing social disparities. On the contrary, the results of the evaluations carried out last year indicate that significant progress has been made, particularly on the key points of the child's success: reading fluidity, a prerequisite for understanding, and numeracy. In addition, the gap between students in priority education and students in non-priority education is decreasing between CP and EC1; This positive development therefore concerns pupils in all sectors. The results correspond to the two objectives we pursue: raising the general level of all students in France and progress in social justice through better support for students in difficulty. This positive trend, which we will deepen, is the result of the pedagogical mobilization of all the teachers, whom we warmly thank for their tremendous work. We will also strengthen the success courses during the summer holidays, especially in priority education and in rural areas: a week of free school support will be offered to any student who needs it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u145	Mrs Agnès Chill has the floor to put her question, No. 920, on measures in favour of teachers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u146	Mr. Secretary of State, as part of the pension reform, the Government has announced a programming law aimed at significantly raising the salaries of teachers in the middle and early stages of their careers, thanks to an envelope of 400 to 500 million euros per year from 2021, i.e. 10 billion euros promised by 2037. The Minister of National Education also announced that it seemed normal for him to take this opportunity to discuss the conditions under which the profession was to be carried out. In December 2019, he said: "We are on the eve of a profound transformation in terms of human resources policy that gives us the opportunity to solve structural problems that teachers have been complaining about for a long time. To put back the sense of the profession and the happiness of teaching in the center. We will be able to address the issues of occupational health, housing, the gradual cessation of activity..." While I fully agree with these comments, the concern of the teachers is that these are only words for them that they no longer believe, as their working conditions have deteriorated. Their growing ill-being is due to the poor quality of their working conditions, unsatisfactory childcare conditions, the precarisation of the profession through the massive recruitment of contract workers and the exponential increase in their tasks since the shift from "differentiation" to "individualization". These are problems that, although they have been known for several decades, have not yet been answered. What exactly are we talking about in the programming law? How will individual financial adjustments be defined? First-degree teachers have no bonuses or opportunities to work overtime. How can the Government fulfil such an important promise in the long term? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, why talk only about bonuses or compensations, which can last only for a period of time, and refuse to thaw the point of index, which would be a lasting solution? It is all these unanswered questions that leave teachers unbelieving.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u147	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u148	Mrs. Thill, I apologize for the absence of Jean-Michel Blanquer, who asked me to answer you. The establishment of a universal retirement system provides an opportunity for systemic reflection on the profession of professor. The Ministry of National Education and Youth has therefore engaged in a dialogue with the social partners on three aspects: a salary adjustment to guarantee the pension level of teachers; the in-depth transformation of the human resources management of the Ministry of National Education for the well-being of staff; Finally, improving the quality of the education service. This dialogue with trade union organisations will run from January to June 2020. During the week of 13 January, bilateral meetings were held at the Ministry and provided an opportunity for the Minister to present to the social partners the principle of non-decrease of teachers' pensions, the challenges of the future programming law, the Ministry's proposed annual conference on human resources management, and the prospects for the budget measures for 2021. These various points have been widely relayed in the press. Workshops on first and second degree issues will be held until March. An online consultation of teachers will be held in the spring, and an international conference on the teaching profession will be held in March 2020. Finally, negotiations prior to the preparation of the 2021 Finance Bill will take place between April and June. They will be followed by the preparation of the programming bill. As you have understood, the content of the programming bill will be the result of negotiations with the social partners, according to the timetable I have just communicated to you. I want once again, on behalf of Jean-Michel Blanquer, to reassure the professors that, in view of the small amount of the premiums paid to them – compared to other comparable officials – the Government has undertaken to ensure that the introduction of the universal system is accompanied by a salary increase that guarantees teachers the same level of retirement as for the equivalent bodies of the public service. This commitment was formulated by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. We will respect it, in a manner that will be agreed before the summer. Simulations on typical teacher cases, comparing the two pension systems before and after the reform, will be presented shortly by the State Secretariat for Pensions. Moreover, we can only regret that some have deliberately chosen to sow concern by circulating simulators relaying false information – since the parameters of the reform have not yet been stopped. In the opinion of the Council of State, the latter is the adviser to the Government in the preparation of bills. It is consulted on draft legislation. His opinion sheds light on the changes he considers desirable in legal terms. We were fully aware of this opinion before presenting the bill to the Council of Ministers. As the text published on 24 January shows, the Government did not follow the advice of the Council of State, which called for the withdrawal of the guarantee provided to teachers and researchers: it maintained the drafting of article 1, which guarantees the level of pensions. This decision clearly demonstrates the importance that the Government attaches to this commitment. While this provision could be analysed as an injunction, it has a very strong political significance: it provides national representation with valuable information on the Government's intentions towards the teaching and research populations. Maintaining this provision will lead everyone to position themselves by voting during the examination of the text, and there is no doubt that its adoption will confirm the commitments already made by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Education. Finally, it should be recalled that if this section defines an objective, the tools to achieve this will be included in the programming bill introduced before the summer. This project is already under way, as evidenced by the holding of the first workshops with the representative organisations and the announcement of a €500 million upgrading envelope as of 2021. Once again, we therefore reaffirm our commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u150	The floor is open to Mrs Claire Guion-Firmin, to put forward her question, No. 906 on the experimentation of the demonisation of income from active solidarity – RSA.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u151	My question concerns the management of the AHR within the overseas community of Saint-Martin. With EUR 14 million in annual expenditure, the RSA accounts for almost 10% of the community's expenditure – a substantial budget, for a territory whose border is not materialised, and which, nobody knows, serves as a variable of adjustment to the social policy of the Dutch part of the island. On the basis of its legislative authority, the Saint-Martin Territorial Council adopted on 8 April 2016 a demonstrative deliberation of the RSA. This deliberation was cancelled the following year by the Council of State. After the success of the Cohésia map, the creation of which, after the passing of Cyclone Irma, allowed the release of emergency funds in the form of a payment document, the community of Saint-Martin requested the dematerialization of the RSA on its territory. The principle of this dematerialization, which corresponds to a commitment of the President of the Republic, was adopted in the Finance Act for 2019, in the form of an experiment to be carried out for four years from 1 July 2019. Now we are in January 2020 and the experiment seems to have been postponed sine die. Can you give an exhaustive account of the technical or political difficulties encountered in this case and commit yourself to a specific date of entry into force of this important experiment for the community of Saint-Martin?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u152	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u153	You are right, madame: the 2019 Finance Act provided for the experimentation of a new method of issuing the RSA – in the form of a payment document – from July 1, 2019, in Guyana, Mayotte and Saint-Martin. This payment document was to be translated into a prepaid payment card allowing for demonised emergency aid, as was the case with the system introduced after the cyclone Irma. What's happened since then? On the basis of the recommendations of an inter-inspection mission, the Government decided to conduct this experiment in Saint-Martin in the first place. Having made this choice, we drafted a draft decree setting out the modalities for carrying out the experiment and forwarded it to the Council of State at the end of May 2019. The Council of State, however, considered that the demonisation of the RSA did not meet the main objective pursued by this social scheme, which aims to ensure that beneficiaries have a minimum subsistence income. The Government had therefore sought a solution to meet the needs expressed and to respect the positive view given to the territorial community. It turns out that the only option available for this would be to entrust normative jurisdiction to the community of Saint-Martin. At the same time, the Commission has expressed its wish to see the management of the RSA recentralised, as we have done in Guyana and Mayotte, and as we are currently doing in La Réunion. The question is therefore simple: the state and the community of Saint-Martin must meet quickly to decide whether the community should take up the normative competence – which will allow it, if necessary, to demonize the RSA – or whether the RSA should be re-centralized, in which case the state will manage it, as it does in other territories. I would also like to point out – because this was also the subject of the process – that we have stepped up measures to combat fraud. This is to be welcomed, because we are making progress in this area. I want to thank the family allowance funds, the CAF, who have done this work. The message to be sent to the Saint-Martinois or to the community of Saint-Martin is therefore clear: we must now make the choice that I referred to earlier very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u154	Mrs Laurence Maillart-Méhaignerie spoke of her question, No 901 concerning the opening of shops on Sundays and public holidays.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u155	This question was originally to be asked by my colleague François André, Member of Parliament for Ille-et-Vilaine, who could not be present today for health reasons. I know that he is looking at the work of this House, and I salute him. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the advisability of the local agreements governing the opening of shops – especially medium-sized and large-scale food – on Sundays and public holidays. These agreements are fully in line with the perspectives of the right to territorial differentiation. At the national level, several territories have been the driving force behind such consultations, which involve organisations representing predominantly food-producing businesses and trade union organisations representing employees. Agreements have thus been concluded on the basis of article L. 3132-29 of the Labour Code, in its wording resulting from the Act of 6 August 2015 on economic growth, activity and equal opportunities. These local agreements have many virtues. First of all, they promote the culture of social dialogue in order to define, in good intelligence, a framework adapted to the needs of consumers and economic actors in a given area. Secondly, they help to preserve or revitalize local shops in city centres and town centres, in line with the core city action programme, the small towns initiative of tomorrow and the national strategy for crafts and local commerce. Finally, they make it possible to reconcile the protection of workers' rights with freedom of trade and competition law. In view of the imprecise nature of the law, however, prefectural orders made on the basis of these local agreements are regularly annulled by the administrative courts. The decree of 2 May 2016 of the Prefect of Ille-et-Vilaine, which endorsed the terms of the local agreement concluded in the Pays de Rennes, was thus annulled by a judgment of the Administrative Court of Rennes on 6 April 2018. With regard to these elements, I would like to know how the Government intends to legally secure these local agreements. The future bill "decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration" seems to me to be an appropriate framework for achieving this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u156	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u157	I give you the answer of my colleague Muriel Pénicaud, whose absence I would like to apologise for. You are asking us about the importance, at the territorial level, of local agreements aimed at regulating the conditions for opening shops on Sundays and public holidays, especially for medium and large areas of food. I would like to remind you that there are several devices for Sunday work. Retail food stores can employ employees up to 13 hours. Opportunities for opening beyond 13 hours are also foreseen, but they come under special conditions: shops may have access to them if they are located in an international tourist area, subject to the conclusion of a collective agreement; if they benefit from a "Mayor's Sunday", up to twelve Sundays a year; or if they benefit from a derogation from the prefect, the conditions of which are very strict – risk of serious damage to the functioning or to the public. Conversely, the closure of businesses may be imposed by the prefect for all activities of the same sector within a given geographical area, after agreement of the relevant actors, i.e. at least one trade union organisation or employers' organisation reflecting the opinion of the majority of the professionals in the sector. This notion of majority is an essential element, since it conditions the legality of the decree and prevents it from being the subject of contentious actions, as happened in the Land of Rennes. It is a tool for regulating competition, the initiative of which belongs to the social partners. In this case, the various derogations from Sunday rest do not apply. We are fully aware of the practices of territorial social dialogue that exist, particularly in the country of Rennes, where, since 1997, regulation has been exercised by elected representatives, trade and social partners, in line with regional planning policy. The problem of local negotiations, to which we are particularly committed, will need to be addressed more broadly. That is why – and I come to the answer you are waiting for – we are studying the possibility of launching, through a forthcoming legislative vehicle, an experiment in these territories, to enable the expression of territorial specificities on the basis of a local consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u158	Mrs Béatrice Descamps, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 919, concerning the overall allocation for the operation of mining communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u159	The mining communes, as everyone acknowledges, are more affected than the others by the declines in staffing. Whether they extract coal, salt, iron, or bauxite, they have all seen their revenues from the state decrease. Between 2014 and 2019, the flat-rate allocation paid to these municipalities would thus have fallen by 27.45 % compared to the average received by the other municipalities in France, a decrease of 51 million euros for the 190 mining municipalities. This is certainly due to the fact that these communes historically had a smaller base. An attempt to take this reality into account had been made in 1991: some measures had then been decided, but they remained ad hoc. How can we, Madam Minister, correct this injustice? Many municipalities are also doubly penalized because they have to take care of abandoned infrastructure overnight. In my electoral district, for example, the municipality of Saint-Saulve experienced significant decreases in endowments between 2015 and 2019. In any case, it receives much lower allocations than those enjoyed by municipalities belonging to the same demographic stratum. The elected representatives wonder: are these inequalities of treatment linked to the status of mining commune?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u160	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u161	Madam Member, I would like to give you the answer from the Department of Territorial Cohesion. The Government is aware of the difficulties facing the mining communes and is committed to a renewal, through investments aimed at encouraging their attractiveness, including the renovation of their habitat, the support of their industry, such as the territories, industry, and the maintenance of their schools. Between 2014 and 2017, the implementation by the previous government of a contribution to the recovery of public finances had the effect of unilaterally reducing the flat-rate allocation of all French municipalities, in particular the 191 mining communes, by almost 53 million euros. This represented, between 2013 and 2017, a decrease of approximately 27% in their lump sum allocations. This contribution was calculated on a pro rata basis of the actual operating income and was therefore a reflection of the differences in the resources of the municipalities. At the same time, the most fragile municipalities were able to benefit from a significant increase in their equalisation allocations, in particular the DSU, or the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion, and the DSR, or the allocation of rural solidarity, which are distributed taking into account the specific burdens faced by the municipalities. Nearly two thirds of the contribution paid by mining municipalities was offset by the increase in allocations for equalization, with thirty-eight municipalities having even seen their overall operating allocation – DGF – increase between 2013 and 2017. Since 2017, the overall amount of the DGF has been stable. The Government has chosen to put an end to the unilateral cuts in allocations and to stabilize the envelope of financial assistance, as part of its trust relationship with local communities. This overall stability is accompanied by a continuation of the progression of the fishing components of the DGF, which aim precisely to take account of the specificities of the most fragile municipalities. Thus, between 2017 and 2019, the overall amount of DGF received by mining municipalities increased by €6.6 million, an increase of 2.44%, well above the national average increase of 0.1 %; 68% of them have seen their individual allocation of FMD increase since 2017. Mining municipalities benefit on average in 2019 from a per capita allocation of DGF of 306 euros, almost twice as much as the national average allocation. These municipalities are therefore not disadvantaged by the distribution criteria of the DGF currently in force, which make it possible to understand their specificities. The finance law for 2020 is once again in line with this prospect of strengthening solidarity: the DSU and the DSR will thus increase by €90 million each. Finally, as part of the reform of local taxation, mining municipalities will be subject, like all municipalities, to full compensation linked to the abolition of the housing tax on their territory. This compensation will take the form of the transfer to them of the property tax on built properties, which is now collected by their departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u162	Mr Charles de la Verpillière, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 907, on the care of unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u163	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. Since 2013, the State has required departments to take care of minor foreigners who have arrived in France without their families: "unaccompanied minors". Their number has increased exponentially, from 4000 in 2012 to more than 20,000 today at the national level. My department of Ain has experienced the same evolution and our services must now house and supervise 227 unaccompanied minors. Three-fifths of them arrived directly in Ain, while the remaining two-fifths arrived in other departments and were redirected to Ain by the national cell. This is the first problem facing the departments: they have no control over the situation and must welcome all unaccompanied minors sent to them by water. The second problem concerns the assessment of the age of these young people. Everyone understands that children and young adults cannot be accommodated under the same roof, with all the problems that this promiscuity can pose. However, age assessment is very difficult technically and legally. In particular, we find that many young people who are reoriented to Ain from other departments are, in fact, 18 years of age or older. It is therefore urgent that the Government amend the decree of 30 January 2019 dealing with this issue. Finally, the third problem concerns financing: the participation of the State is – forgive me the term, Madam Secretary of State – totally ridiculous. In Ain, it does not reach 300,000 euros, out of a total of 6 million euros supported by the taxpayers of the department. This is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u164	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u165	The Government is particularly sensitive to the difficulties faced by the departmental councils for the shelter, assessment and care of unaccompanied minors, or MNA. That is why, as he had committed himself to it, he has strengthened the operational and financial support he has provided to them since the beginning of 2019. The reform of the arrangements for the State's flat-rate financial participation in the shelter and assessment phase of persons presenting themselves as MNA aims to allow a fairer compensation of the expenses incurred by the departments, on the basis of a package of 500 euros per young person evaluated and 90 euros per day of shelter for fourteen days, then 20 euros per day for a maximum of nine days. The decree and the decree implementing this new scale were published in 2019, at the end of June. An exceptional financial contribution from the State to support the MNA had been implemented in 2018, amounting to EUR 12,000 per additional young person supported by 31 December 2017 compared to 31 December 2016. This scheme was renewed in 2019, amounting to €6,000 for 75% of the additional young people taken care of at 31 December 2018 compared to 31 December 2017. For 2019, the Government and ADF, the Assemblée des départements de France, have agreed to an extension of this exceptional aid. Its total amount is therefore 175 million euros in 2019. On an operational level, in accordance with Article 51 of the Law of 10 September 2018, the deployment of the minority assessment aid tool aims to facilitate and make reliable the assessment by each chair of the departmental council of the situation of persons presenting themselves as MNA. This tool has been operational since February 2019. His appeal had not been made compulsory, but the Government intended to establish a mechanism to provide financial incentives for departmental councils to use it. One of the objectives of the minority assessment aid treatment is to combat nomadism. By allowing the departmental council where an NMA presents itself to direct it to the prefect, who can verify whether the person concerned has already been evaluated, the treatment avoids costly reassessments by departments. We must also have a proactive, collective and more comprehensive approach than today. Collective, because it is through joint work between departments and the State that we can find a comprehensive lasting response. Indeed, we need to work on the way upstream – because more than 60% of the MNAs come from the same three countries – as well as on the assessment of the minority and on the downstream, i.e. on the training of these minors and on their access to employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u166	Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u167	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your answer. You will admit, however, that much remains to be done and that the State must absolutely help the departments. It is not normal that this problem of unaccompanied minors, which really does not concern the departments themselves, should not, above all, be financed and taken over by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u168	Mr Pascal Bois, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 898, concerning the hospital in Beaumont.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u169	Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that it is you who are representing the Government to answer a question about which you and I have already had an opportunity to discuss. It deals with the situation at Beaumont Hospital in Val-d'Oise. If this institution is not properly located in the electoral district of which I am elected – which is in the Oise – its field of intervention concerns in particular the sectors of Chambly in Méru, which represent, to the south of the Oise, a basin of life of about 40,000 inhabitants, for which it is the nearest hospital. I have been questioned several times by staff representatives and members of the defence committee of this hospital complex about the restructuring of several services and the malaise that tends to spread within the hospital community in the context of the mutualization program. Very attached to the public hospital and its quality and proximity services, I regret this situation, like the dedicated health care staff and the users in need. Some complain of a lack of communication and listening. Can you, Madam Secretary of State, communicate to us the elements that will enable us to learn about the project of a global overhaul of the provision of care at the territorial level and of the distribution of activities and of material and human resources? We need, in fact, to clarify the situation for local elected officials, now plunged into embarrassment and indecision, and to reassure staff and patients, who are worried and to whom we owe our full attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u170	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u171	Mr President, attachment to the public hospital and its quality and proximity services are values that we share, and I welcome them. It is for this purpose that the institutions of the hospital group Carnelle Portes de l'Oise de Beaumont-sur-Oise evolve and adapt. In the face of a medical demography that has become very tense, the GHT, or local hospital group, has committed itself last autumn to a reorganisation that has become necessary. The objectives have always been very clear: to ensure the safety of patients' care and to maintain an offer of hospital care in Beaumont-sur-Oise. There may have been rumours at some point about the closure of the Beaumont hospital, but it was never mentioned. The reorganization of care in this territory has been the subject of several consultation meetings organized by the ARS – Agence régionale de santé – of Île-de-France. It was fully shared with all stakeholders, including the Chair of the Supervisory Board, Ms. the Mayor of Beaumont-sur-Oise, Nathalie Groux, and the health staff of the hospital group. The project first brings together the provision of critical care of the territory at a single site, in Pontoise, with the aim of strengthening the security of care and medical presence, as I said. However, it retains, and has always been very clear, an important activity on the Beaumont site to meet the needs of the population. It thus provides outpatient surgery, which is not only maintained, but enriched with new specialties exercised by territorial teams of the GHT, maternity and the capacity to hospitalize in paediatrics adapted to the needs. An unscheduled paediatric care consultation is in place to meet the need for city care and a large part of the GHT medical teams have been pooled to provide care for patients with the same requirement at any point in the territory. Quality and proximity, therefore. In addition, a "family respite village", intended to relay the caregivers, is being studied on the site of Carnelle. It would be a completely innovative offer in Île-de-France, and I know how to count on ARS Île-de-France to continue working with everyone on this subject. This new organization represents, I do not deny, important changes. It has been coordinated, implemented over the past four months and fulfils its dual objective of ensuring the safety of care and maintaining a close proximity activity that remains very important. It is now necessary to build on this new organization to give it all its chances of success.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u172	Mr Pascal Bois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u173	I am reassured and hope that this will be the case for all the elected representatives concerned. As you rightly said, rumours of closure have run, but I know that it was never mentioned, and I have repeated it many times. However, we will remain vigilant about accompanying this transformation through the Supervisory Board. I invite the entire management of the establishment and the SRA to do the same to ensure true support and transparency, as well as permanent appointments with staff and representatives of users.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u174	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor to put his question, No. 910, on the western Vosgian hospital centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u175	My question, addressed to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, concerns the situation of the western Vosgian hospital, which has been the result of the merger of the hospitals of Neufchâteau and Vittel since 2013. Since that merger, many reorganizations have taken place. Thus, nephrology, cardiology and surgery services were closed, for example at the Vittel site. Despite all these major and sometimes painful reorganizations, the financial situation of the western Vosgian hospital remains very deteriorated, with deficits which, as is the case for the other Vosgian hospitals and many others in France, remain high, of the order of 7 to 8 million euros. The performance contract signed at the end of last year provides for support from the ARS, amounting to EUR 10 million over four years, until 2023. However, this support remains – let me tell you, Madam Secretary of State – on the one hand the weakest of all Vosges hospitals, on the other hand very insufficient in view of the large investment operations currently under way, whether it is the extension of the hospital in Vittel, carried out at 70%, the renovation of the operating block in Neufchâteau – we are at half the construction site – or that of the emergency site. Particular attention should be paid to the latter, since the emergencies were "in their juices" almost since the hospital was set up forty years ago. In addition, the Vittel emergency department must of course be strengthened and secured, including during the deep night, in order to ensure reduced take-up times. In fact, in 2018, passages increased by 7% on the Vittel site and the primary exits of the SMUR antenna – a mobile emergency and resuscitation structure – also increased by 18%, reflecting the essential role that this service plays in the territorial meshing of eastern Vosges, a very rural area. In addition to these large investment operations, kitchen renovation projects or an EHPAD – a housing facility for dependent elderly people – are also planned, not to mention the current investments in equipment and goods. In order to achieve a reduction in operating costs and an increase in revenue from activities as required by the performance contract, it is of course necessary to be able to finance all this work. I would therefore like to know the intentions of the Secretary of State – especially in view of the lower investments and support than those for other Vosges hospitals – regarding an increase in the support of the Regional Health Agency that would guarantee the provision of care in our rural territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u176	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u177	You are asking me, MP, about the financial situation of the western Vosgian hospital centre, CHOV. At the end of December, the institution had a deficit of EUR 8 million, with a debt of EUR 48 million. Volume 1 of the performance contract signed in October 2019 must therefore make it possible to improve the financial trajectory of the hospital by taking into account the necessary developments with regard to supporting functions; Volume 2 will focus more on CHOV's medical project in a context of a decline in demography and a marked lack of attractiveness of the medical professions. The performance contract for the period 2019-2022 provides financial support of EUR 10 million, in addition to more than EUR 10 million of aid allocated over the last ten years. On 14 January 2020, CHOV submitted to the ARS an investment plan of EUR 22.6 million, specifying that this project required ARS assistance of EUR 6 million. The SRA told the institution that the investment plan must adapt to its financial situation. The hospital is invited to review its real estate projects while prioritizing the restructuring of the emergency department of Neufchâteau. The initial investment project envisages three combined phases of work, the last of which, relating to the emergency service, appears to be a priority. The "Invest for the Hospital" plan should examine the situation of the hospital centres of the territorial hospital group, the GHT, and in particular CHOV. Within the framework of the emergency re-foundation pact, the ARS Grand Est has commissioned each departmental delegation and each HEG support institution to develop a departmental plan to provide solutions to the tensions of the emergency services and to re-examine more broadly the entire chain of unscheduled care. Concertation meetings involving all stakeholders, including hospital health professionals and liberal doctors, have made it possible to select actions that will make it possible to fluidise emergency services while meeting the needs of the population. In the summer of 2019, CHOV received a first financial support of €98002 from the Ministry of Health to support the operation of hospital emergencies during the summer. At the end of the year, the identification of immediate equipment requirements for the department's emergency services identified a further need of € 200000 for both sites – Vittel and Neufchâteau – for the purchase of stretchers, nursing chairs, defibrillator or light vehicle. The "Invest for the hospital" plan, which provides for the allocation of 761000 euros for the GHT 8 at the beginning of the year, will allow to study the needs of the emergency services you have indicated, in addition to those of the other services of the hospital centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u178	Mr Jean-Jacques Gaultier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u179	I just want to highlight one point: we often highlight the partial recovery – up to a third – of hospital debt over three years. This takes place from the 2018 accounts. However, CHOV used a loan of 12 million in 2019. So he finds himself wronged. Western Vosgian received 10 million, compared with 15 million for Saint-Dié-des-Vosges and 36 million for Epinal. If we do not need two-speed medicine for our patients, we also need no two-speed support from the state for our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u180	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor to put her question, No 912, on the dangers of the use of hilarious gas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u181	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to a public health problem that targets young people: the recreational use of nitrous oxide, better known as hilarious gas. This practice has spread for more than a decade: recurrent in some student evenings and during some festive musical events, it has conquered, over time, a wider audience, also younger, and now has a presence within the public space. The consequences of the diversion of this gas, which is usually used in kitchens or hospitals, are worrying. Consumers are exposed to various risks: respiratory problems, swallowing, cold burning or, worse still, memory loss, lack of fatal oxygen or irreversible damage to the nervous system and spinal cord. Some health professionals also warn us about possible loss of knowledge that may unfortunately lead to sexual assault. As these side effects are often very poorly known, consumers, with little or no information, take significant risks. Indeed, while it is still difficult to quantify the number of deaths due to hilarious gas consumption, it is well on the increase. Physicians, elected officials, law enforcement officials and parents are concerned about young consumers who, from the age of 13 or 14, feel the need to deceive their boredom by consuming what they think is a safe product. The soils littered with hilarious gas capsules testify to this. Alerted by local residents and neighbourhood associations who saw these cartridges getting worse, some mayors took the problem with their bodies by signing municipal ordinances to ban the sale of them to minors. The Senate, too, took up the matter, unanimously adopting on December 11, the trans-party bill put forward by Senator Valérie Létard and pursuing the same objective. Madam Secretary of State, does the Government intend to do so? You announced that you wanted to work with industry on prevention and consumer information; What about it? If we do not act quickly, it is a scourge that awaits us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u182	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u183	The trend in the consumption of nitrous oxide is well monitored by the health authorities. In 2019, prefectures and regional health agencies received awareness-raising and vigilance messages inviting them to put in place preventive measures as well as rapid and adapted treatment of users and to strengthen the reporting of cases and the dissemination of information to the public concerned. The Government shares the objective pursued by the bill defended by Ms.Létard and adopted by the Senate last December. We intend to strengthen and improve this proposal within the framework of the parliamentary shuttle in order to identify other proportionate measures that would also protect young adults, the first victims of poisoning. As misuses move from product to product, a comprehensive approach is needed. There is a need to encourage the prevention of these misuses of everyday consumer products among young people and their families by local actors – I am thinking of schools or universities. The information must therefore be integrated into more comprehensive interventions on the prevention of consumption of psychoactive products and addictions. In case of questioning or difficulty related to the use of products or drugs, users, their entourage and the public can turn to anonymous and free help devices. "Youth consumer consultations" offer a confidential reception, listening, counselling and guidance service, provided by addiction professionals and intended for young people. The "Drugs info service" remote helper also offers a space for information and exchange on topics broader than the one you mentioned. The problem is that of the necessary prevention of all products at risk. We must find an answer together, thanks in particular to Mrs Létard's proposal for a law, which will be submitted to you shortly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u184	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u185	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. It is indeed important that this text, which is not yet on the Assembly's agenda, reach us through the shuttle. There is indeed a need to legislate on this problem which, according to what I observe, is not dealt with on the ground in the context of the work to prevent addictions. Legislative intervention is therefore necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u186	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to put his question, No 889, on alcohol advertising in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u187	Madam Secretary of State, my question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. As you know, alcohol consumption in France is a real problem. As the second leading cause of death after smoking, it is responsible for more than 49,000 deaths per year in France, more than 130 deaths per day, i.e. one death every ten minutes or so. The island of La Réunion is one of the departments and regions of France where alcohol kills the most, behind the Hauts-de-France and Brittany. Madam Secretary of State, we know that the law restricts alcohol advertising, which has increased in number of advertisements and on display during the holiday season. At La Réunion, this was such a fact that the issue was addressed by the press. In 2018, alcoholics spent between €7 and €10 million to promote their drinks, while in parallel, only €200 to €300,000 was spent on prevention of the dangers of alcohol. This disturbing disproportion leads to over-consumption, particularly of strong alcohol, in our territory. Each year, alcohol is responsible for the death of about 250 Reunions. This is one of the leading causes of road accidents. In addition to the mortality rate, alcohol is also associated with violence, rape, acts of incivility, destruction of homes, and so on. Our young people are particularly vulnerable to risk behaviours associated with this addictive consumption. On the other hand, we are now seeing that some alcohol advertisements do not comply with the ban on being included within 200 metres of schools. This advertising is perverse and dangerous because it promotes early alcoholism. Our marmalades are in danger, it is urgent to act. Madam Secretary of State, last July I tabled a bill to ban all alcohol advertising altogether. You know as well as I do the ravages of these drinks and their significant impact on public health. My proposal has been forwarded to all Members, but none of the Members of your majority On the move, she didn't want to support her. My questions are simple: are you ready, Madam Secretary of State, to study my bill? Are you finally going to enforce the law that prohibits alcohol advertising around schools? When are you finally going to act to really protect our health, especially that of young people, rather than giving in to the lobbies of alcohol?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u188	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u189	I cannot let you say that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health would be in the hands of the lobbies on the issue of alcohol. Prevention of at-risk consumption is, on the contrary, one of the Government's priorities, and a number of strong measures for young people are being implemented in this context. In the case of minors, these plans envisage, inter alia, the strengthening of the application of protective prohibitions. This includes improving the training of operators, but also working with distribution professionals on reducing the accessibility of alcohol to minors. Other measures are planned for young people: I am thinking in particular of the programme for the deployment of programmes for the development of psychosocial skills, the improvement of emergency management of acute ethyl intoxication or the strengthening of consultations for young consumers. Thanks to the creation in 2019 of the fund to combat addictions related to psychoactive substances, an unprecedented effort has been made to finance innovative and structuring actions to improve the prevention of addictive behaviour by mobilising both national and regional actors. As early as 2018, the regional health agencies of the ultramarine territories spent nearly €1.2 million on actions to prevent addictive practices. In 2019, these funds were significantly increased through the addiction fund, which provided funding for regional calls for projects tailored to the needs of the territories. An assessment is expected in the first half of 2020. The link between exposure to advertising and increased alcohol consumption has been highlighted in many studies. It is for this reason that advertising for alcohol is specifically regulated and is prohibited in the press and on websites mainly dedicated to youth. In addition, the law provides for protection zones free of alcohol advertising in the vicinity of schools. Any offender is subject to administrative and criminal penalties. I invite you, honourable Member, to disseminate this information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u190	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u191	Madam Secretary of State, we must act very quickly. You say prevention is one of your priorities, I understand. In this case, I invite you to consider my bill, because it clearly states that it is necessary to prohibit advertising for alcoholic beverages if we really want to protect our people, especially the younger ones of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u192	Mr Alain Bruneel, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 893, on fire safety officers in hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u193	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, since December 2019, all the officers who make up the fire safety department of the hospital in Douai have been on unlimited strike. These movements of protests are spreading in the fire safety services of public hospitals throughout the country, which is a clear indication of the fact that the malaise is national. When I met them, these agents explained to me that their missions were becoming more and more misguided. To cope with the shortage of staff in the various services, these ultra-polyvalent agents have become real Swiss knives of the general operation of the hospital. A sick man to lift: they are called. An electrical malfunction to repair: they are called. An aggressive companion at the emergency room: they're called. An absent standardist: they're here to pick up. In short, they are watchdogs, technicians, convenience stores, concierges, hoteliers. They spend most of their time providing services, and it is only from time to time that they are able to carry out their primary mission, that of fire safety officers, which is the only one mentioned on their employment contracts. At the Douai hospital, they now estimate that they spend only 12% of their working time on the missions for which they are paid: 50% of their working time is dedicated to hospital safety, while they are not security guards. It's not their role; That's not what they were hired for. It is clearly the lack of human and material resources that causes the burden of service activities to shift to personnel who have to play a role that is not theirs. Following a strong mobilization, which is still ongoing, their emergency services colleagues have been receiving a risk premium of 100 euros net monthly since 1 July 2019. However, this bonus is not paid to fire safety officers, while they are often called to emergency services and arrive very frequently on the front line. The risk, they also face it on a daily basis. On the website of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health we can read: "In the hospital, the safety of people and property is even more important than elsewhere: in this, the fire safety officer is a key actor. Today, these key players, as you call them, rightly want real statutory and salary recognition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u194	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u195	I thank you, Mr President, for your question and would like to assure you that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health is committed to ensuring working conditions for all categories of public hospital staff so that they can fully fulfil their tasks and improve these conditions when they are not optimal. Fire safety and personal assistance officers sometimes perform ancillary duties. Perhaps it is in the answers to the question of hospital funding that they will see their work refocused. That is, in any case, what we want and what we strongly hope for. In addition, the 2019 report of the National Observatory on Violence in the Health Environment has highlighted that, in some hospitals, these agents increasingly carry out personal and property security missions as a result of reported or self-reported violence. The report points out that 26 per cent of the incidents of violence required the intervention of security and safety officers, sometimes in very difficult conditions. In compliance with existing fire regulations, facilities have chosen to mix security and safety teams to carry out these two missions. This is still not widespread and is not developed at national level. Due to the context and high level of the terrorist threat, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of the Interior have jointly committed themselves, in 2016, to a plan to secure health facilities to prevent and combat all forms of violence ranging from incivilities to the terrorist threat. It is now important to further improve the security of facilities, as it guarantees a better quality of life at work for all staff, which is itself a factor in the quality of care provided. Proposals are being discussed with the Ministry of the Interior to move forward on these issues. We will continue to work on this to provide concrete responses to these situations. If you wish, Mr Bruneel, I invite you to discuss this issue with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u196	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u197	Madam Secretary of State, excuse me, but you do not answer the question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u198	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u199	No! The fire safety officers who are called everywhere in reinforcement to perform tasks that do not correspond to their mission specifically request the benefit of the €100 premium awarded to their colleagues in emergencies and statutory recognition. You're not answering! You invite me to join you in making a proposal following ongoing discussions; Please know that, for my part, I am already joining that of citizens and hospital workers in favour of welfare in the hospital! You never answer questions; I'm sorry. You have launched four plans for emergencies and hospitals, but you invariably announce that we will have an answer tomorrow, when my question must be answered today. Once again, you sent me back to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u200	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor to put his question, No. 921, on the Bruay-la-Buissière clinic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u201	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, in September 2019, I asked your ministry about the situation of the medical-surgical clinic in Bruay-la-Buissière. Since then, it has been placed in judicial liquidation by the Arras Commercial Court. This decision, although based on the precarious financial situation of the health care facility, which had seen a dangerous reduction in its operating result, already has particularly dramatic consequences for the 70 employees of the clinic and their families. On 2 January, the Arras court confirmed the dismissal of the staff. In response to the intervention of many elected representatives, the Regional Health Agency of the Hauts-de-France was able to become more involved in the dossier. A recent meeting was held with the clinic's emergency physicians to reflect on a project to create a new unscheduled care centre. This project seems to be moving forward, and the RSA has indicated that it is taking part in the funding of engineering support. This system will then be a first in France. However, the sustainability of the activities of liberal emergency workers requires additional budgetary resources, in particular to recruit health workers. Furthermore, the reopening of the care service is subject to authorization by the Order of Physicians, which extends the time limits. Madam Secretary of State, this matter is of particular interest to me. It is fundamental for the inhabitants of my territory, my constituency, who are already hard hit by increasing medical desertification. The emergency department at this clinic provided 17,000 care per year. The referral of patients to the surrounding emergency structures raises the question of the means of the Bethune hospital and the Bruaysis and Bethunian clinics. In fact, according to the indicators, there is the question of access to a health service in the territories of the mining basin. We can no longer bear any further deterioration in the supply of community care. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for giving me the options for a concrete and quick solution to the residents, the medical team and the dismissed staff of this clinic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u202	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u203	Member of Parliament, the CMC – medical-surgical clinic – of Bruay-la-Buissière, manager of the eponymous clinic, belonged to the private group Coastal Hospitals – HPL –, holder of four other clinics, two of which are located in Bethune, about a dozen kilometers from the first. She carried out medical, ambulatory surgery, senology and follow-up care and rehabilitation activities. The ARS has mobilized to accompany a recovery. Unfortunately, the proposed successor withdrew from the procedure at the last moment. The structure was therefore placed in judicial liquidation by the Arras Commercial Court and the aforementioned activities ceased at the end of December 2019. In order to meet the needs of the population, the AHNAC – Association hospitalier Nord Artois clinique – which manages a polyclinic in Divion, less than seven kilometres from the Bruay-la-Buissière clinic, has increased the medical capabilities of this polyclinic, in conjunction with the ARS. Follow-up and rehabilitation care, surgery and emergency management can currently be provided not only within the Divion Polyclinic, but also within other structures. As far as unscheduled care is concerned, the ARS has proposed to the emergency workers who were involved in the clinic to reflect, in connection with the actors of the territory, in particular the town hall and the Filieris health group, which has four health centres in Bruay-la-Buissière, on a legal form allowing them to be further structured on the Bruaysis as soon as possible. ARS has also decided to fund an engineering service to support this process. Senology is performed in one of the Bethunian clinics in the HPL group and in the Bethune hospital centre. AHNAC also requested permission to resume CMC activity in the Divion Polyclinic. Consideration of this application is already under way. This new distribution of care provision within the same geographical area should allow part of the health care staff to return to work. Some 15 people should be recruited by the HPL group in Bethune; Other health actors in the territory should also offer some recruitments. The hospital centres of Bethune and Lensois were asked about their vacancies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u204	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-28-O1126.u205	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on the integration of the rights of the child in the work of the National Assembly; Discussion of the proposed law to protect victims of domestic violence. The meeting is adjourned.
