ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations relating to State advice and control (No 3399, vol. III, annex 10), public authorities (No 3399, vol. III, annex 32) and the direction of action of the Government and the annex budget "Official publications and administrative information" (No 3399, vol. III, annex 15). Mr Daniel Labaronne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u3	In decline of 4.6% in commitment authorities but in increase of 2% in payment appropriations, the appropriations entered in the finance bill – PLF – for 2021 under the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat" give institutions essential to our democracy the means of their missions. They amount to €740.5 million in commitment authorisations – EA – and €718.7 million in payment appropriations – CP. However, the issues are very different from one program to another. The 165 programme for the Council of State and other administrative courts saw a 7.4% decrease in its EAs, mainly due to renewals and leases, the overall amount of which was lower in 2021 than that set out in the original Finance Act for 2020. However, payment appropriations increase by 7,8 % outside Title 2, particularly as a result of the trend in expenditure and measures aimed at the creation of the Toulouse Administrative Court of Appeal and the strengthening of the National Court of Asylum – CNDA – precisely one of the two administrative courts to which I now call your attention. In 2019, its delay reduction trajectory was in line with the target of legal deadlines, but its activity was reduced by the health crisis, the hearings having been completely suspended from 16 March to 22 May and the resumption having been affected by compliance with health measures. The stock had thus increased, on 1 September last, by an additional 7,000 cases, compared to 28881 cases on the eve of confinement. At the same time, the health crisis prevented some recruitment of rapporteurs. Those who will not be able to intervene before the end of the year will be asked to carry over to the management of the budget in 2021. Their budgetary impact in terms of credits and FTEs – full-time equivalents worked – is already included in the payroll base and in the employment ceiling of the programme, but particular attention should be paid to the means of the CNDA. Another jurisdiction that I would like to draw your attention to is the Commission for the Litigation of Paid Parking, the CPSC – whose name means too little, in the spirit of the litigant, that it is a real court – may have to deal with an unexpected mass of petitions. In a decision of 9 September last, the Constitutional Council declared the provisions that made the admissibility of an appeal to the CPSC conditional on the prior payment of the post-parking fee contrary to the Constitution. The Council considers that, in the absence of provisions to take account of particular circumstances or situations, this obligation unduly infringed the right to an effective judicial remedy. On my initiative, the Committee on Finance proposes that you rewrite the relevant provisions of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities in order to avoid a congestion on the part of the CPSC – we will discuss them again in a few moments in the light of my amendment. The appropriations in programme 126 for the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC – are perfectly stable. I welcome this mastery of the budget on the eve of a major reform, which was allowed by the abolition of 58 seats of advisers and associated personalities. In particular, during the first year of the reform, the economy achieved will allow the creation of the dematerialised petition, a citizen's platform for the EESC, and will provide the necessary resources for prior consultations and consultation with the territorial consultative bodies. It may still be necessary to review the EESC's resources at a later stage in the light of the new tasks entrusted to it by the reform. The appropriations under programme 164 on the resources of the Court of Auditors and other financial courts are also very stable. Instead, I will focus on the 340 programme, dedicated to the High Council for Public Finance – HCFP – which, during this very particular year, issued quality opinions under exceptional conditions – and within even more time constraints than usual. Perhaps it is appropriate to strengthen its resources slightly, but, like many of you, ladies and gentlemen, I felt that, with a unchanged mandate, the pure and simple threefold demand for its appropriations was not justified. President Moscovici has provided me with additional information on this, and we will return to it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These remarks, I call on you to adopt, following the Committee on Finance, the appropriations for the mission 'Council and State control'.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u4	Mr Christophe Naegelen, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u5	The appropriations of the "Governments" mission, which account for less than 0.2% of the general State budget, are changing infinitely this year by -0.05%. Nevertheless, the budgets of the Presidency of the Republic and of the parliamentary assemblies are of considerable symbolic significance, as the demand for credibility, exemplaryness and transparency of the elected representatives of the nation is rightly high among our fellow citizens. The confidence of citizens in their representatives, one of the major challenges of this legislature, is unfortunately still far from being restored. It must be recognized that efforts have been made for several years. However, there are still points that can be improved, in particular with regard to the overall stability of the allocations requested. The health crisis will result in under-implementation of the 2020 budgets, which will offset the additional costs associated with health protection and reorganisation of work. The Presidency of the Republic and the parliamentary assemblies will have some room for manoeuvre for the financial year 2021, even if it will be necessary to make up for investment. It is therefore quite logical, in this context, that the appropriations requested are unchanged. Moreover, the forecast budgets are all slightly falling, without being in balance. Unfortunately, as in previous years, the Presidency of the Republic, the National Assembly and the Senate will continue to draw on their availabilities, which may present real difficulties in the short and medium term. This year I decided to devote most of my intervention to the Constitutional Council, parliamentary channels and the Court of Justice of the Republic. First of all, the allocation requested by the Constitutional Council is down by EUR 485,000, but it should be noted that by 2020 a specific allocation of EUR 785,000 had been foreseen to finance operations relating to the referendum of shared initiative. It seems necessary for the Constitutional Council, like the National Assembly and the Senate, to have its accounts certified annually by the Court of Auditors, which is not the case at present. The remuneration of its members, which is not based on any solid legal basis and whose amount is of great opacity, must also be clarified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u7	In my capacity as rapporteur, I have asked the Council to provide me with an anonymised payroll. I detail in my report the components of this remuneration, which amounts to 15,000 euros gross, i.e. 13270 euros net, of which 43% is indexary salary and 57% is allowances. The members of the Constitutional Council shall combine this remuneration with the various retirement pensions which they may receive in respect of their previous activities. One can legitimately wonder why the principle of non-accumulation of an activity allowance with retirement pensions, established by the decree of 27 February 2020 on the remuneration of members of independent administrative authorities and independent public authorities, should not be applied to the members of the Constitutional Council, as a recent proposal for a law by our colleague Thierry Benoit invited us to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u8	It was rejected by some!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u9	I'm going to La Chaîne parlementaire – LCP. The allocation of the chain of the National Assembly, LCP-AN, has remained unchanged since 2013, at 16.64 million euros, and is 1 million euros lower than that of Public Senate while the airtime is the same. There is a real possibility of improvement to be sought by wondering about the cost of TNT, which is EUR 3.45 million in 2021. It is urgent that LCP be able to integrate into the future holding of France Médias, provided that the examination of the draft law on audiovisual communication resumes its course, which is not planned to date – but perhaps the government representative on the bench will be able to inform us about a future date. There is also a need to relax LCP-AN's own resources constraints. It must be able to obtain funding, in particular through the dissemination of messages of general interest or advertising. I will conclude by referring to the Court of Justice of the Republic – CJR. The abolition of this institution is almost unanimous but depends on constitutional reform which is now unlikely under this legislature. At the end of the year, the CJR returned the entire balance of its appropriations to the State budget and did not have any reserves. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Since these remarks have been made, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the appropriations for the mission 'Public authorities'.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u10	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u11	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u12	First of all, let me have an emotional thought for the victims of the Nice bombing that took place today and for their families. In 2021, the mission "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement" has 860 million euros in payment appropriations. Its appropriations are up by 143 million in commitment authorities and 70 million in payment appropriations compared to the 2020 budget. The year 2021 will be marked by the further strengthening of the resources allocated to the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security: an additional 9.1 million will be allocated to it, bringing its allocation to 315.5 million. In this regard, I would like to welcome the creation of the operator of classified interdepartmental information systems – OSIC. The mission will also be marked by the strengthening of the resources allocated to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life – HATVP –, to the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – and to the Defender of Rights, who has a positive employment pattern. However, the mission's budget for 2021 calls for a number of comments. First, a 359 programme, dedicated to the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, will be created in 2021. The Government must be particularly vigilant in order not to repeat the errors highlighted by the Court of Auditors in 2009 concerning the organisation of the French Presidency in 2008. First, care should be taken not to disperse the same funds over other programmes. Moreover, the consumption of 47 million euros from 2021 seems uncertain despite the organisation of many events planned at the beginning of 2022. I caution the Government against the pitfall of increasing the carry-overs or cancellations of appropriations at the end of management on programme 359. Finally, I note that no performance indicators have been defined for this programme. It would have been appropriate to construct measuring instruments to assess the progress of the preparations and the proper management of these appropriations. Secondly, despite the abolition of two operators in 2021, the National Institute for Advanced Security and Justice Studies and the Interministerial Centre for Anti-Drug Training, several costly reforms have been carried out in the field of the mission. Thus, the Prime Minister's services will bear the costs associated with the operation of the Office of the High Commissioner in the plan. No mention of this new structure is made in the budget documents and its estimated cost has not been indicated to me. The same applies to the increase in the number of authorized collaborators in ministerial offices. In addition to the fact that these decisions seem opportunistic and unlikely to promote the country's recovery, the lack of transparency regarding their impact on public accounts is a real problem. More generally, I believe that the amounts committed under the recovery plan seem to be accompanied by an abandonment of the objectives of controlling public expenditure. I wish to conclude with a word from the Government Information Service (GIS) on the "Government Action Directorate" mission. EUR 14.2 million will be requested in 2021 for its operation, equivalent to that of 2020. But this forecast is obviously insinuating since the SGI has already consumed 26.2 million euros! The increasing use of surveys in the conduct of public action must also be stressed: in 2019, €3.3 million was spent on opinion studies, mainly because of the great debate and, in the context of the coronavirus epidemic, 48 studies were commissioned between March and September, at a total cost of almost €1 million. I believe that your government's choice of using surveys to develop language elements, or even to direct its policy, by financing them with debt, is at least questionable. Finally, with regard to the annex budget "Official publications and administrative information", the crisis has severely affected the revenues of the Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information – DILA. However, the annex budget as a whole is expected to again generate a surplus in 2021 of more than €6 million, which is due to the decrease in its operating expenditure of €4.3 million and the continuation of the voluntary departure plan. [[MM. Special Rapporteurs applaud]] As last year, I will only be in favour of the adoption of the annex budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u13	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u14	First of all, I have a thought for the Niçois and I extend my sincere condolences to the families of the victims of the despicable, cowardly and barbaric attack that was committed this morning at Notre Dame Basilica in Nice. I salute the professionalism of the municipal police and support all the law enforcement agencies, who have acted with complacency, courage and self-denial. As far as the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat" is concerned, the observation is simple: the preponderance of staff expenditure places its appropriations at a high level of rigidity. In addition, the most notable development is the threefold increase in the appropriations requested for the High Council for Public Finance, from approximately EUR 480000 to almost EUR 1.5 million in commitment and payment appropriations. Members of the Republican Group deplore that this increase is insufficiently justified. I would remind you that this is one of the many bodies in charge of State advice and control, alongside the Council of State, the Court of Auditors and the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. The High Council for Public Finance is by far the smallest of all, but its payroll will triple in 2021, from 430000 euros to 1.45 million euros, for the hiring of five economists... Then what about Bercy's role and function? It should be noted that it is recurring that only a small part of the operating appropriations allocated to the High Council for Public Finance are consumed. This sub-execution reveals the artificial nature of the 340 program. Surprisingly, the appropriations of the Council of State and other administrative courts are falling. As for the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, its appropriations were curiously stable, while it would be time to ensure better spending of the State's money in this reform institution. The EESC certainly does not deserve the trial in indignity which is often done to it, nor the excess of satisfaction which we hear in the majority. But it does not shine by its dynamism or its ability to be heard, especially since the reports produced there often compile information that has long been available from other structures. Its aura has declined since its creation in 1925, and its reform is finally being adopted in Parliament. It is up to him to prove in the future that the allocation of additional appropriations could have an interest in the national community. I would like to point out that during the first reading of the draft reform, the Republicans Group expressed its support and stressed that it was interesting to involve our citizens in its opinions in order to make the EESC a chamber of listening and public expression. Once these changes have taken place, its financial needs will change: let us take advantage of them to reduce its appropriations this year by anticipating the expected decrease in the number of its members. Our fellow citizens rightly demand the proper use of public funds. The Republican Group will therefore not endorse the choice made by the Government and will vote against the mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u15	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u16	We feel like we're living an endless day. As the containment measures announced last night with seriousness and sense of responsibility by the President of the Republic undermine the conviviality so much desired by our fellow citizens, we have been carrying out assassinations, murders and attempted attacks since this morning. They are perpetrated by Islamist terrorists who aim to undermine our model of society, our French culture, our freedoms, our traditions and our fundamental values – all that nothing nor ever will deny us. We feel like we live an endless day because it is France in its heart and soul that is attacked, as it is every time. That is why we need more than ever to give ourselves the means to act. It is our rule of law that is being called into question, and the missions we are considering this evening are intended to support the State's action to protect our institutions and the French, to strengthen the functioning of our democracy, whatever type of crisis we are going through. This democracy, which we believe we have acquired and which some want to kill, certainly needs strong discourse, but also means. I am not going to go on a list at the Prévert, and I humbly acknowledge that I am not a public financier, but I do not underestimate the importance of budgetary missions relating to State advice and control, to the direction of government action and to the public authorities, which are crucial in the health and security situation we are experiencing today. Let me turn my attention to a few points which, I believe, are of particular importance. First of all, I have noted the increase in the appropriations of the "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement" mission, which is due in particular to the creation of a programme for the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2022, at a time when the Union is indeed fundamental in an uncertain global context. Also within this mission, I have also noted the increase in the staffing of the "Coordination of Government Work" programme, an essential function for the General Secretariat of Defence and National Security, which has been particularly sought in recent times in the context of the many defence counsels which, unfortunately, will still have to succeed. I would also like to highlight the strengthening of the resources allocated to the National Agency for the Security of Information Systems (ANSSI), part of which will be dedicated to the financing of the installation of a site in Rennes in order to form a centre of expertise in the field of cyber defence. This new antenna will accommodate no less than 200 officers. This is excellent news for our cyber defence strategy, an indispensable tool in particular in our country's fight against terrorism. Another budget on which I would like to dwell for a moment is that of the administrative courts. Staff credits are increasing for courts of first instance, appeal and cassation. This is all the more important given the fact that, as a result of the health crisis, indicators of the average time taken to dispose of cases and the proportion of cases in stock have deteriorated significantly and the same will be true in 2021. One last point that I think is important concerns the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. It represents our civil society, soil and ferment of our democracy. The EESC, whose budget is stable, will benefit from an important reform – and I would like to welcome my colleague Erwan Balanant, the rapporteur of the related organic bill. The aim of this reform is to ensure that citizens' voices are taken into account in the public debate, which we particularly need. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] So yes, the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats will, of course, support and vote for the appropriations for the missions and the annex budget that we are considering tonight, because our country needs a strong state, functional administrations and reinforced administrative courts, which are essential to respect the rule of law, and above all because, Mr Minister for Relations with Parliament and Citizens' Participation, ladies and gentlemen, we need to be united in the face of these multiple crises. It's no longer time for political chicaneries. We must not fall into the trap of division. We have to face it together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u17	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u18	The budgetary tasks which we are preparing to examine the appropriations are intended to finance the whole of our institutional structure, from Elysée to the parliamentary assemblies, via the services of Matignon and without forgetting the Constitutional Council, the Council of State and the independent administrative authorities. The appropriations for the "Presidency of the Republic", "National Assembly" and "Senate" programmes of the "Public Authorities" mission are renewed for 2021 at a level almost identical to that of the previous year. As far as our Assembly is concerned, the budget prepared by the College of Quaestors and adopted by the Bureau provides for a total expenditure of EUR 562.62 million, which is 1.01 % less than the original budget for 2020. The appropriations allocated to the Constitutional Council will also be reduced as a result of the absence of a referendum on popular initiative. As regards the expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic, the reforms carried out under the previous quinquennium and continued since 2017 with a view to the normalisation of management, according to the report of the Court of Auditors, have led to first results. As for the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", its operating appropriations increase by 1.95% in payment appropriations. If his Special Rapporteur, Mr Labaronne, considers that this gives the means of their missions to institutions essential to our democracy, I will be more cautious than he, for at least two reasons. On the one hand, inflation is estimated at between 0.6% and 1.4% in 2021, which will reduce the increase in appropriations, i.e. at a minimum of 30% less than their facial presentation in the finance bill. On the other hand, while the appropriations of the Council of State and the other administrative courts have increased by 2.74% in payment appropriations, this positive development is still insufficient. Indeed, with regard to performance indicators, the average trial time for 2021 is nine months for the Council of State and one year for administrative courts of appeal and administrative tribunals, and the expected gains for 2023 are hardly significant. It is a pity that the annual performance programme has not tried to assess, even grossly, the degradation of the main performance indicators in 2020, with a likely impact on 2021. Inadequate access to the judge remains a hindrance to law and justice in our country. Of interest to this issue, the Socialist and Related Group will defend an amendment to increase the resources allocated to the National Court of Asylum. The appropriations of the High Council for Public Finance are increasing from €479812 to €1.5 million. This tripling, linked to the creation of jobs for rapporteurs, is the subject of debate. Thus, the Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance considered the objective put forward by the institution – becoming a national and European reference in the field of public finances – to be ill-justified. I will allow myself a general reflection which can be applied here. In our country, too often administrative institutions are cut off from academic institutions. Yet the high-level knowledge produced by our teachers-researchers, individually or collectively, is likely to fuel public expertise in the broad sense, guaranteeing both the competence and the independence of the latter. A multi-annual partnership with French and foreign researchers from our higher education institutions, both nationally and internationally, would make it possible to enhance the skills of each other and the opinions of others. Such partnerships or the ad hoc use of such experts would be welcome in the context of the work of our own assembly, for often reasonable amounts of expenditure. Finally, with regard to the mission "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement", which includes several programmes, I would like to highlight two elements. A series of budgetary developments correspond to an increase in staff and staff costs, linked to the growth of the tasks and activities of the independent administrative authorities which control and advise our rule of law. However, as the Special Rapporteur notes, the use of certain appropriations for the payment of opinion polls is questionable. For a whole series of reasons that we share with her, we will not vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u19	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u20	This budget discussion brings together three tasks which, without being the most voluminous in the second part of the PLF, are of particular importance: "Council and control of the State", "Public authorities" and "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement". I shall endeavour, in the time allotted to me, to shed light on some of the salient points. First of all, I would like to welcome the increase in the number of staff in the administrative and financial courts: 28 FTEs – full-time equivalents – will be added to the ranks of the administrative courts, which, like the courts, will have to manage an increasingly large flow of litigation which will increase the length of the trial period. Thus, as an illustration, the number of appeals before administrative tribunals increased by 8% in 2018 and by 8.6% in 2019. The health crisis also had a significant impact on the organisation of administrative courts. As noted by Special Rapporteur Labaronne, in the administrative courts, the number of cases dealt with decreased by 17.5% over the first seven months of 2020 compared with the same period the previous year. The creation of a ninth administrative court of appeal in Toulouse by the end of 2021 is to be welcomed: it will be able to discharge the administrative courts of appeal in Bordeaux and Marseille. The financial courts are not left behind: they will win 5 FTEs, which will in particular make it possible to prepare the mandate of the Court of Auditors as the auditor of the United Nations for the period 2022-2028. [[Mr François Ruffin warmly applauds]] The second point I wish to address concerns the High Council for Public Finance. As Mr. Labaronne said, the 340 program is up 213 per cent. I welcome, of course, the quality of the High Council's expertise, but the Minister-in-Office must explain to us the reason and the appropriateness of this exponential increase in the resources allocated to it, which does not seem indispensable to the proper pursuit of its activities. Our group then welcomes the stability of the appropriations allocated to the programmes of the "Governments" mission. Those allocated to parliamentary assemblies have been stable in current euro for ten years. This stabilisation corresponds to a constant reduction in euro of 9% between 2012 and 2020. In the face of the deterioration of our public accounts, the stabilization of the appropriations allocated to the institutions that represent the beating heart of our democracy is a good signal – although the amounts reported to the general state budget are quite small. In addition, I would like to commend the efforts made by the Presidency of the Republic in the area of budgetary control. The reorganization carried out over the past two years is bearing fruit, and the drawdown on availability is decreasing, to 2.5 million in 2021, with a forecast of 1 million for 2022. However, when it comes to parliamentary assemblies, there must be rapid reflection on the massive and systematic use, each year, of the reserve levy to supplement the budget. The question of the sustainability of this management in the medium and long term will necessarily arise. In this regard, last year, I invited the National Assembly to undertake a multi-year budgetary programme which seems more necessary than ever. With regard to the National Assembly's parliamentary channel, a major reorganization plan had been launched in 2018 to move it towards a global media. This plan requires additional resources, which have not been deployed in the 2021 budget; We regret that, given the growing interest that this channel has in our fellow citizens. We share the comments of Special Rapporteur Christophe Naegelen – I myself had the opportunity to make a comment last year – on the Constitutional Council, whose accounts should be certified as those of the Assembly and the Senate. As I pointed out in committee, we regret the very weakness of the budget blue information. Finally, the Action Together Group welcomes the special effort being made for the benefit of the national defence services. In today's context, it seems to us more than ever necessary to provide additional means to combat threats to the security of our country. Allow me, in this regard, to have an emotional thought for the victims of the Nice bombing and their families. [[Applause on the banks of the Agir ens group as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Action Together Group will vote on the appropriations for these three missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u21	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u22	The appropriations allocated to the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat" in this finance bill for 2021 show, as was pointed out, an increase of almost 2% – 1.95 %. As Patricia Lemoine has just pointed out, this increase will first benefit the High Council for Public Finance. Positive developments include efforts to further modernize the high administrative and financial bodies: the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, the Court of Auditors, the Council of State and the High Council for Public Finance. Thus, the staffing of the administrative courts will be increased in order to accompany the increase in litigation and, above all, to move those courts towards closer proximity. Similarly, the Mission provides 3.5 million dollars for the continuation of the real estate projects of the administrative courts. Staff costs will increase by 1.28 per cent for the Mission as a whole. If I understand the decision to allow the High Council to take responsibility through the recruitment of a number of collaborators, is the time opportune? As you modernise these institutions, is it not possible to optimize and pool certain elements?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u24	I would like to focus part of my speech on one of the reflections made by the Special Rapporteur, Christophe Naegelen, with whom I had co-signed a bill – Mr.Minister Delegate, you must remember – which dealt with the remuneration of certain members of the high independent administrative authorities, such as the Constitutional Council, and the issue of cumulation of employment and retirement. The mission we are discussing is called "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat". The Members of Parliament have recently put their house in order: we have, on a voluntary basis, transformed the representative allowance for mandate expenses into an advance payment of refundable expenses, and settled the issue of Members' pensions, aligning them with the general scheme – a reform that I felt was essential. If we want to strengthen the confidence pact that must unite our country – we have mentioned the need to remain united – and to consolidate and strengthen the cohesion of the French, I think that Members are entitled to demand more ethics and transparency from certain institutions, including some of their members. To tell you everything, this summer I was able to write to the First President of the Court of Auditors, who was appointed at least in June, asking him if he was to accumulate his EUR 14000 allowance with his pensions as a former Member of Parliament and as a former Member of the European Parliament, and with his transitional allowance as a former European Commissioner, between EUR 8500 and EUR 13500. He replied, in a very affable way, that he shared with us the desire for ethics and transparency. Unfortunately, he is entitled to claim his pension rights: he therefore accumulates his two retirement pensions, as a Member of the European Parliament and as a Member of the European Parliament, a transitional allowance and, of course, his remuneration as the first President of the Court of Auditors. [[Anne-Laure Cattelot applauds]] I believe that all this must stop: Members must say so in the context of their monitoring mission – this is a good start – and demand more ethics and transparency from members of the Constitutional Council, the National Commission for Public Debate and the Court of Auditors. In particular, it is necessary to regulate the issue of cumulation of employment and retirement, which, for some, can lead to overall remuneration of some tens of thousands of euros. A Member of Parliament was telling me this afternoon that, as part of the money advances, he had been asked for proof of the acquisition of a mortuary crown: he had to explain why, in his constituency, as a Member of Parliament, he handed flowers on the occasion of certain deaths. That's to tell you how far we went in precision! We should demand the same from these independent institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u26	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u27	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The IDU and independent group will vote for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u28	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u29	We are now called upon to vote on the appropriations for four missions. Having only five minutes to present the position of the Libertés et territoires group, I will not go into detail, focusing my remarks on two missions: "Public authorities" and "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat". The mission "Public authorities" must be part of the requirement of transparency and probity of our institutions, expressed forcefully by our fellow citizens. This implies that public authorities are modernising and transforming in depth, requiring rigorous management of public funds – a democratic imperative. The crisis of the Covid-19 forced Parliament to reorganise its work in a hurry, and then the Conference of Presidents of our Assembly wanted to launch a reflection group on parliamentary work in times of crisis, under the responsibility of our colleague Sylvain Waserman. The budgetary bruises indicate that the financial impact of the health crisis for the Palais-Bourbon was estimated, last June, by the Assembly's services, at around 700000 euros. This amount represents expenditure of a health nature, as well as the deployment of teleworking tools and videoconferencing for commissions. However, as the second wave unfolds, our assembly still does not seem ready to deal with it. We're still in the DIY. The Conference of Presidents – which is also a question, because it is not the role of this body – has decided to restrict the presence of Members in the sitting and in committee, in disregard of our own Rules of Procedure. For example, in the absence of a system of remote voting, or of equipment or rooms large enough for committees, some of our colleagues cannot even carry out their mandate of satisfying matters. The procedure for delegating votes has been relaxed, but such a malfunctioning of our assemblies is not acceptable. Parliament, which has been downgraded in recent years, is partly prevented. Faced with this confinement of representative democracy, we call for an increase in the resources allocated to remote work. Democratic solutions must be found without delay. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] I also very much regret the increased use of contract workers by the House. We have reached 303 contracts in 2021, and this figure does not take into account those hired by the Presidency. We need independent public servants, like our bailiffs or administrators, and increasing the use of contractors over time is a drift that I want to denounce. In addition, there is no question of their remuneration or working conditions. Frankly, when you go into the details with some, there's not much to be proud of! I don't think we're setting an example today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u30	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u31	I come, without transition, to the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat". The 165 programme is marked by a continuous increase in the handling of asylum disputes. As the Special Rapporteur, Daniel Labaronne, reminded the Finance Committee, if the National Court of Asylum respected its path, in particular by reducing processing times in 2019, its activity was seriously disrupted by the health crisis. After the total suspension of hearings from 16 March to 22 May 2020, the resumption of its activity was limited by preventive health measures. While in 2020 the Government planned job creation in order to strengthen its capacity, the crisis led to the postponement of the recruitment of rapporteurs to 2021. The CNDA is also facing a dual challenge. It must, on the one hand, absorb the reform of asylum, which in particular requires a reduction of the time limits for trial to five months in collegiate training and to five weeks in single-judge training. On the other hand, it must cope with the increase in asylum applications examined by OFPRA – the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons – which mechanically results in a significant increase in the number of appeals. Finally, a question arises: are the means provided for 2021 sufficient to reduce the time taken to consider asylum applications? The six-month target is commendable, but I find it difficult to achieve it if we take into account the delays to be made up for and the intensity of the current migration crises. I wonder if we're not trying to empty the sea with a little spoon! Mr Minister Delegate, our group, would like clarification on this point, because it is ultimately our ability to act quickly on asylum applications, which is essential in order to guarantee refugees a little more dignified reception conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u32	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u33	All right, ladies and gentlemen, your literature is a little arid! I looked at the documents and overcame reports full of tables, figures, zeros and euros. But how many birds are left in the sky, fish in the rivers, lumbrics underground? That's not what we're told. Nothing about the coral of the oceans, about the bees, about the polar bears that we massacre like robbers. But the commitment authorizations for the coordination of European policy, we know them to the euro: 16524457 euros! This is what state control is, a control of euros. There are lots of bodies that matter: the Court of Auditors of course, but also the High Council for Public Finance, and then, here in the Assembly, the spring of the evaluation. It's a nice name, even if there's no question of evaluating the swallows that come back or the poppies that hatch, but the "mobilization of budget appropriations" and the "budget implications" of the crisis. That's our poetry! We remain stuck to the origin of the word "control", to its etymology in the old French. Counterroller: check accounts by entering in a second register. Seven centuries later, this narrow, narrow, limited definition remains ours. This is our control of the state and the executive: a control of the euros, without social, without environment, without morals. We stayed in the Middle Ages. Well, let's look at those accounts anyway! It was with height, drums and trumpets that this summer the Elysée made clear that the plan would be back. It is true that we would need a plan, both by means of containment-deconfinement -reconfinement our country seems to be today without compass, without heading, without captain - unless the latter is blind and blind, and the ship France, carried by the currents, floats at the speed of the waves, barely guided with a wet finger. So what do we find out about your reports? That the plan does not exist, in any case will not exist next year! Not a round is dedicated to him. In Sherlock Holmes of the budget, Mrs Dalloz, intrigued Special Rapporteur, called the Prime Minister's Office, which confirmed that there were no appropriations entered for the operation of the plan. I therefore wondered who controlled the state, who controlled these fraudulent advertising effects and those false advertisements. When President Macron launches the Citizens' Climate Convention, 5 million euros are actually registered, but when he undertakes to take up the proposals that will come out of it, without a filter, who comes to control the state, the head of state? No one. Finally, it is the 150 citizens drawn by lot who stick to it themselves, without a euro, launching an observatory of the proposed measures. Forget about the 5G moratorium, the ban on new airports, the end of domestic air links! The previous year, the same President Macron had initiated the big debate, for 12 million euros, as a "concertation of a national scale", a "consultative tool for exiting the crisis". There were 16,000 complaints books across the country, never opened, never read, never put online. All this to finally keep nothing from it. Who controls the State, the Head of State? Who controls the broken trust, the bond that breaks when, on 14 July, the President assures us that we are ready for the second wave? When, before the start of the school year, does the Government say that schools are ready? When the Minister of Health, again last week, at the front page of the Échos, guarantees that "The hospital is ready to face, the dam and solid"? Who controls the state?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u34	Who?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u35	Who controls fake news, hospital beds, supplies of reagents, hypnotics and vaccines, who controls the recruitment of nurses, who controls the morale of nurses?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u36	[[Smile]] Who, who?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u37	When we outsource – that's the word, "externalize" – maintenance workers in hospitals, in the courts, in ministries, here in the Assembly; when they are subcontracted and mistreated, when they get up in the middle of the night for chopped and cut days, unless the SMIC, who controls the state? Who controls the cost, for them, for their health, for their families? But the money, that, yes, we control it. "Large people like numbers," explains Antoine de Saint-Exupéry at the Little Prince.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u38	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u39	"When you talk to them about a new friend, they never ask you about the essentials. They never tell you, "What's the sound of his voice? What are the games he prefers? Does he collect butterflies?" They ask you, "How old is he? How many brothers does he have? How much does it weigh? How much does his father earn?" Only then do they think they know him. If you say to the big people, "I've seen a beautiful pink brick house, with geraniums on the windows and doves on the roof..." they can't imagine this house. You have to tell them, "I've seen a hundred thousand francs house." Then they exclaim, "How pretty."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u40	[[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] Oh, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u41	Well...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u42	That sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u43	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u44	We are looking at the appropriations for three missions and an annex budget, whose stability we have noted. I will confine myself to a few remarks on the ambitions we can give the EESC and the CNDA. This year, as you know, the EESC has in some way succeeded in establishing itself in the institutional and media fields, thanks to the work of the citizens' climate convention. After the yellow vest crisis, the President of the Republic asked people who had been drawn by lot to work hard to formulate ambitious proposals on the climate. Upon completion of their work, the 150 participants were invited to the Elysée, where the Head of State announced in great pomp on 29 June that he was committed to passing into the ecological defence council or to submitting to Parliament all their proposals, without a filter, with the exception of three of them: the reduction of the maximum speed to 110 kilometres hour on the highway, the inclusion of environmental protection in the preamble of the Constitution, and the 4% tax on dividends. Three months later, for those who may have some hope, it is disillusionment. The Government is embarking on this re-entry into the process of splintering proposals and, week after week, one by one, the strong measures of the convention are abandoned. It can even be said that, on some, the decline is extremely strong. In the face of the legitimate grunt expressed at the time by the members of the citizens' convention, and by us, parliamentarians, concerned that the proposals formulated could be translated into concrete terms in the draft finance law for 2021, the President of the Republic, in a letter addressed to the association of the 150 citizens of the climate convention, replied that certain "proposals are being debated in our society", and that some of the "measures deserve adjustments". For our part, we were not fooled by the real intentions of the President of the Republic, who, in terms of ecology, often knows how to have great lyrical flights while in fact it has the greatest difficulty in countering what the all-power of the market dictates. Let us say that this deeply contemptuous attitude towards the work of our fellow citizens further degrades our democracy and confidence in the State. Everyone is now wondering about the relevance of the citizens' conventions and, in addition, about the EESC's, if it is condemned to become the object of propaganda by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u45	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u46	In a Fifth Republic which has drastically reduced Parliament's expression and prerogatives – I believe we have been able to experience it again today – participatory democracy in the hands of the executive is doomed to become the instrument of the majority. The fate reserved for the 149 proposals of the Citizens' Convention is unfortunately so! The terrible testimony. This situation must lead us to reconsider, more than ever, the institutional relevance of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. For our part, it is not a secret, we consider that the time is ripe for democratic innovation, for the establishment of a new, truly representative chamber with a large dose of drawing lots. We believe that participatory democracy and permanent deliberation have their full place in our Republic, provided that they are complementary to a parliamentary regime that we lack today. I would like to take advantage of the minute I have left to refer to the National Court of Asylum. For three years now, we have deplored the treatment given by the Government to CNDA, the country's largest administrative tribunal, by the number of decisions handed down. For the past three years, we recall that there can be no Republic without a humanist policy of the right of asylum, that it is at this price that we will guarantee a dignified and secure reception of newcomers to our country. As such, the order of May 13th that, during the period of medical emergency, the Court could rule on all cases in single-judge hearings and expand the possibilities of using the video-hearing was not of such a nature as to reassure us. Although the Government has been disavowed by the Council of State, we know that it intends to continue its mad race for statistics. We believe, however, that this policy is completely contrary to the interests of asylum seekers, but also of French and French people who want these cases to be dealt with under appropriate conditions. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] At the cost of this policy, the CNDA is now under stress at the dawn of a containment that will not be without consequences on the number of procedural postponements and on the upcoming explosion of cases under processing. For these reasons, in particular, we will vote against the appropriations allocated to these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u47	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u48	Before I begin, I would like to have a special thought for the victims of Islamist terrorism. Today we are looking at appropriations for State advice and control, public authorities, the direction of government action, and, finally, official publications and administrative information. These are essential tasks for the proper functioning of the rule of law. To advise the Government and to coordinate its actions or to judge the administration are legitimate missions that must receive our full attention – all the more so in times of crisis – because the transparency, efficiency and modernization of the State are crucial and legitimately expected by our fellow citizens. Thus, the budgetary tasks we examine combine the objectives of the proper functioning of our justice, of advice and of State control, but also of foresight and therefore of confidence in public action. We know that the health crisis has had and continues to have a significant impact on the work of administrative and financial jurisdictions. Stockpiles and trial time have deteriorated while administrative jurisdiction has for several years embarked on an ambitious policy of modernizing its organization and working methods, which we can welcome. Our vigilance then focuses on the proper functioning of these institutions, and the appropriations allocated to the administrative and financial courts for the financial year 2021 seem satisfactory. However, our attention is drawn to the appropriations allocated to the High Council for Public Finance. If we recognize its essential work to inform national representation in each budget review, and therefore if we recognize the need to increase its budget and staff, we share the remarks of the Special Rapporteur. A more reasonable evolution of these numbers seems preferable to us. As for the Commission for the Litigation of Paid Parking, the unstable legal situation arising from the constitutional jurisprudence weakens its work and a change in legislation seems to us also desirable, in accordance with the remarks made by the Special Rapporteur S.A.S. Daniel Labaronne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u49	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] Oooh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u50	Similarly, if we understand the burden on the independent administrative authorities, a fortiori when they have the task of protecting the rights and freedoms of our fellow citizens, the management of the human resources of these authorities must be controlled. We can only encourage the rationalisation of operators. The "Direction de l'action gouvernement" mission indicates that thirty-one bodies are currently placed directly with the Prime Minister, compared to thirty-four in the PLF for 2020. These are, of course, small steps, but they must be welcomed and in which public action must continue to be taken. Similarly, we can regret the absence to date of the pooling of equipment and staff between parliamentary channels. Without calling into question the editorial independence of these channels, we are convinced that mutualization would be beneficial. We should note other welcome developments, such as the creation of the 359 programme "French Presidency of the Council of the European Union". The latter comprises the expenditure devoted by all the ministerial departments to the French Presidency of the European Union from 1 January to 30 June 2022. However, care must be taken to draw on the budgetary lessons of the 2008 French Presidency. Let us also welcome the amount of the allocation requested by the Presidency of the Republic for 2021, which is the same as that of 2020 in accordance with the commitments made. More generally, we can salute the good control of the spending of the "Governments" mission. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and some benches of the Dem group]] As we can see, the budgetary tasks take into account the need for transparency, as well as the efficiency and ambition of public action. Under these circumstances, the La République en marche group will vote on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u51	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament and citizen participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u52	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for their statements, and in particular the special rapporteurs, who have produced, as every year, precise and demanding work on the analysis of appropriations. The funds you are examining this evening are of great diversity, but all of them are essential to the proper functioning of our rule of law. They are designed to ensure that the authorities, the bodies responsible for their control and the independent authorities which ensure that a number of individual freedoms are respected have the means necessary for their action. The health crisis has led all staff involved in these missions to work differently, often remotely, by adapting to new constraints. I commend their commitment and efforts to ensure the continuity of their valuable missions, despite difficult conditions. Let me now go a little further into the details of the appropriations presented to you. The mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat" draws the attention of Members to every bench as every year. These appropriations are up 2% and reflect a constant investment effort since the beginning of this legislature in administrative and financial jurisdictions. The PLF for 2021 is part of the path of increasing the human resources of the administrative courts with the creation of twenty-eight posts, including eighteen for the benefit of the new Administrative Court of Appeal of Toulouse, which will be created in 2022. Ten posts will also be created to strengthen the administrative courts, which have already benefited from 29 new posts in the PLF 2020. The investment cycle of more than €7 million needed to build the premises that will house this ninth Court of Appeal is coming to an end, resulting in a decrease in investment appropriations, which should not hide a very important multi-annual effort. In the long run, the new Administrative Court of Appeal will help to reduce congestion in Bordeaux and Marseilles. The National Asylum Court received 80 per cent of job creation. Mrs Faucillon, you said that the Government had not gone far enough in the mobilization of jobs, and yet! I must also acknowledge that the governments that preceded us did so in 2015: I therefore recall that in 2015 twenty-three jobs were created, in 2016 twenty-four, in 2017 forty, in 2018 one hundred and two, in 2019 one hundred and twenty-seven and in 2020 fifty-nine, i.e. 80% of the job creations registered in this program. However, these administrative tribunals have suffered particularly from the period of confinement and the general health crisis, as pointed out by your Special Rapporteur, Mr Labaronne, Mr Pancher, Ms Faucillon and Ms Karamanli. The time taken to process the files has actually increased when it has to be divided by three, as a result of the new means allocated which I have just declined. If no job creation is foreseen in 2021, those budgeted for 2020 that have not been achieved will be carried forward to the next fiscal year. In addition, real estate investments have allowed for the expansion of CNDA's premises. In view of these investments and the recruitments carried out, the CNDA should be able, if the health situation permits, to move closer to its maximum judgement capacity in the year 2021 and to the objectives laid down by law. The Court of Auditors and the financial courts have suffered less from the consequences of the health crisis, since their way of functioning is already based on a large part of dematerialised work. Their appropriations are increasing slightly, particularly as a result of a positive job pattern which will lead to ten additional recruitments in 2021. This increase is in line with the trend of past years. It supports the increase in the workload of the financial courts by integrating new expertise into the field of data analysis and computer development, as well as the preparation of the Court's candidature for membership in the United Nations Board of Auditors, recognized as a strategic objective by the President of the Republic. Several speakers expressed concern at the significant increase in the appropriations of the High Council for Public Finance. This increase in staff costs is intended to allow for additional recruitment in order to provide the High Council with the human resources necessary for the exercise and development of its mission, which, I would remind you, is to provide independent expertise to Parliament and the Government. Despite these recruitments, the High Council remains on the European scene a small budgetary institution compared to neighbouring countries such as Spain, Italy and Austria. However, in the current context in particular, it seems normal to include this increase in resources in the long term. I think we should be able to find a compromise solution when we consider the amendments. The EESC, referred to by Mrs Trastour-Isnart and, more positively, by Mrs Brocard, sees its budget stabilise as it approaches a major reform enshrined in the draft organic law that you adopted at first reading. The reduction in the number of EESC members will allow – but this reform will only apply from June – a reduction in the expenses associated with members' allowances, which will be necessary to implement the Council's new prerogatives, particularly with regard to citizen participation. These resources will be all the more essential in view of the fact that the EESC's resources are severely undermined by the health crisis. I now turn to the appropriations for the "Governments" mission, which remain stable, slightly decreasing, even by 0.05% compared to the 2020 financial year. The Constitutional Council is experiencing a decrease in its budget of 3.88 per cent, partly due to the decrease in its activity compared to the years 2019 and 2020, which were marked by the control of the referendum of shared initiative. I have heard the remarks of the Special Rapporteur Naegelen and Mr Benoit on the allowances of Council members and on their accumulation with other income. I would like to point out that the compensation of the President and members of the Council is governed by the organic law which lays down the principles of the law. It also prohibits them from exercising any public office or other professional activity. The allowance paid to members is stable and similar to the salary of section presidents of the Council of State or chamber presidents of the Court of Auditors. All these elements of remuneration are subject to taxation and contributions under ordinary law. The Government has demonstrated its commitment to pay within the independent administrative authorities. As I indicated on the occasion of the examination of your bill, Mr.Benoit, section 38 of the Public Service Transformation Act of August 6, 2019 established the principle of limiting the remuneration received by members of independent authorities who also receive a retirement pension. A decree was issued at the beginning of the year for the implementation of this scheme, in accordance with our commitments. The Act has also made significant efforts in the area of transparency of remuneration. On the other hand, with regard to a possible write-off of the compensation of the members of the Constitutional Council, the Government was open to discussion and demonstrated this, but the organic nature of the provisions that should be made does not allow them to find their place in the finance law. This year, as Mr Lauzzana has pointed out, the budget of the Presidency of the Republic is down slightly, due both to a lower allocation of finance law compared to 2020 and to a reduction in the availability levy, set at €2.5 million for 2021. In accordance with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the Presidency of the Republic continues its investment programme in the maintenance and valuation of its assets. In reply to Mr Pancher, I shall refrain from commenting on either the budget or the functioning of your assembly. This budget remained stable in 2021, in accordance with the decisions taken by the joint committee in the Assembly and the Senate, which was responsible for this. It is not up to the Government to judge the level of staffing, including to deal with a period of crisis like the one we are going through. Some of you, beginning with Special Rapporteur Naegelen, have questioned the level of funding allocated to the Court of Justice of the Republic, whose activity could increase as a result of complaints related to the management by the public authorities of the health crisis. As with all the appropriations for this mission, the CJR submitted its requests for its budget, and it was simply granted. The Court has not made available any further applications, suggesting that the pleas sought by the Court are sufficient. I now turn to the mission "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement", to which is added for 2021 and 2022 a new programme dedicated to the French presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2022. If we isolate the appropriations for this ephemeral program, which I will return to, the Mission's appropriations are up slightly, by 2.7 per cent, in 2021, mainly as a result of new posts and investment in the Mission's priority areas. The appropriations for the "Coordination of Governmental Work" programme are changing as a result of a dynamic employment scheme for the benefit, in particular, of the General Secretariat for Defence and National Security, as welcomed by Mrs Lemoine, with the creation of sixty-two posts, which will largely be allocated to ANSSI, and the General Secretariat for European Affairs, with ten additional but temporary posts, in preparation for the forthcoming Presidency of the EU Council. The abolition of the National Institute for Advanced Studies in Security and Justice partially offsets this change in the pattern of employment, since it entails the disappearance of the seventy-one FTEs corresponding to its employment ceiling. The tasks of this institute have been taken over by the Institute of Higher Studies of the Ministry of the Interior, a department with national competence under the responsibility of the Ministry. Ms. Dalloz wondered about the impact of the establishment of the new Office on the plan and the increase in the size of ministerial offices since the reorganization. We will have the opportunity to come back to this issue when we consider the amendments, but I can already tell you that this should not lead to an increase in the employment ceiling and staff appropriations, which are sufficiently calibrated to support the 30 additional recruitments. Other staff who have joined the firms are made available to them. The Office of the High Commissioner for Planning will have its operating budget included in the shared expenditures of the programme, the purpose of which is to provide support to the entities attached to the Prime Minister. Its staff, as in the case of firms, will be taken over without the need for additional resources. With regard to other expenditure under programme 129, it should be noted, inter alia, that the investment required for the establishment of an Anssi branch office in Rennes by 2022, as pointed out by Mrs Brocard, would increase by 9.5 million, in order to form a centre of expertise in cyber defence with the Ministry of Armed Forces, in line with the growth of the Agency's missions and staff. I come back to the question raised by Ms. Dalloz concerning the Government's information service. The operating budget allocated to it is stable for the year 2021, at 14.2 million, but this service has experienced, as you know, a very strong activity in 2019 as in 2020, due to exceptional circumstances. During the health crisis, IMIS was responsible for, among other things, a telephone information platform for citizens, which generated a significant cost, in addition to its current operating costs. It is hoped that by 2021 IMIS will be able to perform its functions normally, which justifies the level of its staffing in the FLP. As last year, a number of the Mission's job creations relate to the "Protection of Rights and Freedoms" programme and are aimed at enabling the independent administrative authorities to exercise their prerogatives as best they can. The program budget is up 2.3% as a result of a dynamic employment pattern, with an additional 27 FTEs. In this way, CNIL will benefit from 20 new posts, enabling it to cope with a very large increase in the number of referrals, linked in particular to the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR. The Defender of Rights will also benefit from two net job creations to cope with an ever-increasing activity. The High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, which has taken over part of the tasks of the Public Service Ethics Commission, has benefited from the transfer of four FTEs and will have two additional FTEs in 2021. Finally, I come to the new programme of the mission, which will allow the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union to be organised. It represents a total budget of $150 million over two years, which corresponds to approximately the expenditure recorded in the last financial year in 2008. I have noted, however, Mrs Dalloz's call for caution. In 2021, the program will have $47.4 million in payment appropriations. Contrary to what has been said by some speakers, this amount has been set at the fairest of what will have to be actually settled before the presidency starts for communication actions or rental of rooms or spaces. The appropriations granted to the Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information do not require any particular observation. This annex budget remains surplus for the year 2020 despite a sharp drop in revenues due to the economic crisis. DILA continues to transform its operations and to invest in digital tools available to citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by asking you to adopt the appropriations for these three missions and for this annex budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u53	We come to group questions. Let me remind you that questions, such as answers, are limited to two minutes. Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u54	The interdepartmental Directorate of Digital Affairs – DINUM – is in charge of the digital transformation of the state, to the benefit of service to the citizen as well as its agents. Modernisation of the State information system, quality of digital public services, creation of innovative services for citizens: it supports all ministries in their digital transformation, advises the Government and develops shared services and resources, such as the interministerial network of the State, FranceConnect, data.gouv.fr ou api.gouv.fr. It has just published the fifth edition of its excellent observatory on the quality of digital public services. This edition highlights the advances in dematerialization and compliance with quality criteria for more than two hundred and fifty processes. I am one of those who believe that more efforts must be made to dematerialize in order to better serve our fellow citizens, even if not everyone has access to digital services. The resources released make it possible to invest in helping the French who are now excluded from it. However, dematerialization also feeds certain clichés about a dehumanized administration, driven from Paris. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] My questions relate to the territorial dimension of our digital policy. Minister Delegate, what are the indicators that allow you to verify that the dedicated appropriations will irrigate the territorial level to the last kilometer? What means are in place to enable all French people to access these new services, especially through the network of France services houses? Finally, what is the Government's multi-year strategy for the missions of the interdepartmental digital leadership?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u55	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u56	Mr Cazeneuve, you are asking me about the digital transformation of the state led by DINUM and its territorial dimension. You want to know the indicators to measure the territorial deployment of digital. As such, the Tech.gouv programme implemented by DINUM since the second half of 2019 aims to promote innovative technologies and methods for the creation of digital public services. The number of state and territory start-ups launched each year is a measure of its activity. The digital part of the recovery plan, which will be implemented from 2021 onwards, also has, as you know, a very strong territorial dimension through the public innovation and transformation fund, with 186 million, an important part of which will be dedicated to the deconcentrated services of the State, as well as to the local authorities. The indicators for monitoring the recovery plan are under construction. You will be able to monitor their deployment at all levels. You also refer to the territorialisation of human and financial resources for the digital innovation of the state. Local and regional authorities will be highlighted in their approach to high-impact digital innovation, in order to improve the relationship between citizens, businesses and administrations, to make public action more effective or to increase the digital skills of public officials. DINUM will disseminate the tools it has developed, including collaborative work or messaging, with a budget of $8 million in commitment authorities and $3 million in payment appropriations. It will also be able to award grants to communities for projects and will benefit from a budget of $39 million in commitment authorities and payment appropriations. Finally, you are asking me about the Government's multi-year strategy for DINUM missions. Beyond the growth of human resources, the challenge is to attract digital talent. Recruitment programs already exist, like UX commandos – designers and developers recruited to simplify the online approaches most used by French people. DINUM has also launched, as part of its Tech.gouv programme, a new digital skills-sharing scheme between government departments for short-term missions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, as part of the digital component of the recovery plan, DINUM will shortly open two calls for projects dedicated to the development of the state's digital skills through the appropriation of digital working methods and the professionalisation of public digital methods.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u57	I call the appropriations of the mission "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", entered in statement B. I call Mr Labaronne to support Amendment No. 1569.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u58	It deals with the human and budgetary resources of the High Council for Public Finance, whose exceptional work I would like first of all to acknowledge. In 2021, he will have to deliver several opinions, including on the Public Finance Programming Act, on the finances of public administrations, on the finance laws and on the Social Security Financing Act. The High Council often renders its opinions under extremely strict conditions. I would point out, for example, that on the occasion of the first amending finance law, he delivered an opinion in 24 hours. Given this important work and the very difficult conditions under which it is carried out, an increase in the staff and budget of the High Council for Public Finance is justified – but a moderate increase. That was the meaning of this amendment, which proposed that this body be given an additional FTE and the corresponding appropriations. Pierre Moscovici, First President of the Court of Auditors, however, contacted me to explain why he wanted the High Council for Public Finance to benefit from a greater increase in its budget appropriations and staff. I was sensitive to his arguments. Thus, the next amendment that we are going to consider, tabled by Mrs Pires Beaune, proposes to increase the staff of the High Council for Public Finance by two FTEs, which I believe is ultimately preferable. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] My amendment was an appeal amendment. Mr. Moscovici justified the reasons why he considered it necessary to strengthen the staffing and budget of the High Council for Public Finance. I therefore withdraw my amendment to support Amendment No 1470.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u59	On Amendment No 1470, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 1470.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u60	As Daniel Labaronne has just pointed out, the High Council for Public Finance is a useful, necessary and relatively recent body: it was established in 2012, during the previous quinquennium. Everyone agrees, it contributes to good governance of public finances. Its resources are grouped into the 340 programme that we are currently examining. In a few years, it has become a benchmark in public finances, both for the Government and for the National Assembly. But, given the very deteriorating environment of the state's finances, we find it unreasonable to increase its employment ceiling from three to eight FTEs, as provided for in the 2021 Finance Bill. By this amendment, the Socialist and Related Group therefore proposes to limit the employment ceiling to five FTEs, which would save the state €400,000.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u61	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u62	This amendment is reasonable and I call on the House to adopt it. It has not been examined by the committee, but I am in favour of it in my personal capacity. I recall that the High Council for Public Finance uses independent experts. You have also called on Mrs Karamanli, the Court of Auditors and the High Council for Public Finance to make greater use of the expertise of the academic and academic world, which I also believe is necessary. In any case, strengthening the resources of the High Council for Public Finance will serve the interests of Parliament and will feed into the analysis of macroeconomic assumptions, deficit forecasts or this famous calculation of potential growth which we are discussing with so much energy during the discussion of the opening article. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u63	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u64	[[Exclaims on various benches]] Positive opinion, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u65	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u66	You seem surprised that the Government is in favour of an amendment, but that happens! I welcome the work of the Special Rapporteur, who highlighted the problem, as well as that of Mrs Pires Beaune and Members of the Socialist and Related Group, who have reached a balance and compromise solution in order to provide the High Council for Public Finance with sufficient resources to carry out its tasks while preserving a medium- and long-term budgetary path acceptable to national representation and to our citizens. I recall that the High Council for Public Finance currently has three jobs: adding one can immediately give significant percentages. However, these jobs no longer allow this body to fully carry out its tasks. The challenge is to enable it, without changing its mandate, to respond to the need for independent expertise for the benefit of Parliament and the Government. The High Council for Public Finance also provides information to citizens and provides in-depth and high-quality analyses that inform the legislator on the realism of macroeconomic assumptions and respect for the trajectory of public finances. It is also one of the smaller independent budgetary institutions at European level, hence the need to increase its resources. [[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] However, in the current context, it seems to us more appropriate to adopt the path proposed by the amendment. I would also point out that new profiles could be recruited, which the Court does not have in its pool of magistrates: a macro-economic expert, in order to produce macroeconomic analyses of the measurement of growth and to develop modelling tools adapted to the new context created by the health crisis; a fiscal and fiscal analysis officer, to monitor the state budget and analyse the budget forecasts and the impact of the main financial measures presented in the finance bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u67	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u68	Pages 108 and 109 of the report, I discovered the generosity of the Government: the endowment of the High Council for Public Finance, something which I admit I was completely unaware of, went from 479812 to 1503078 euros. I inquired: born in 2012 following the Sarkozy-Merkel Treaty, this institution is a bit the Brussels gendarme in the budget. Initially, it was planned to increase the resources available to its members by 213 per cent, and even by 251 per cent over two years. Yet it is not exactly to them that the President thought when he said, last spring, "We must also remember that our country, today, holds everything on women and men that our economies recognize and reward so badly. Throughout the budget review, there was not a word for cashiers, not one for housekeepers, very little for social workers, nothing for kindergarten assistants, all those people who were on the front line. This is a question of macro-economists working at the High Council for Public Finance; This amendment – which could be said to fall back – aims to increase their budget by 60%, and it is described to us as "balanced" and "reasonable". Yet, in the future, the rest of the country will not be increased by 60%! I agree, Mrs Karamanli, that is much better than an increase of 213% or 251%, which would amount to a threefold increase. However, I would like to point out that what is considered reasonable, when it comes to macro-economists, so people who will have to control the budget, is an increase of 60%! I'm sorry, but this is a form of slipping.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u69	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u70	What we are proposing is not a slip. We also have a responsibility to introduce reasonable elements into the debate. In my speech, I particularly stressed the method of work that must be ours – this applies to our colleague who has just spoken. The HCFP is carrying out a work of expertise and oversight that we all welcome, but we must also take into account the independent advice of other partners, including academics and researchers, who also provide public expertise and are likely to provide complementary elements useful not only to the Government but also to parliamentarians. That is what is reasonable, and it is not just a matter of numbers, increases or decreases: we have a responsibility to involve a variety of public finance experts, and to ensure that they are not only senior officials, but also researchers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u71	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1470.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u72	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 48 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 43 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u73	We come to Amendments Nos 1518 and 1520, on which I am referred by the La France Group, which has not submitted requests for public ballots. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u74	The whole country is being asked to tighten its belt or even make sacrifices. In this context, it is difficult to understand how the budget officer could see his budget increase by 60%. I understand, Mr Special Rapporteur, that you have met Mr Moscovici and that he has convinced you of the need for such a measure. You said in committee that the HCFP usually had only one notice to give but that in 2020 it had to give three. However, the additional work related to this year's three amending finance bills is also required from the Assembly's administrators, bailiffs, members of ministerial cabinets and even your collaborators! However, we cannot imagine multiplying their budget by three, or even increasing it by 60%. I regret that nurses, nurses, doctors, caregivers and caregivers do not have direct access to you, Mr. Special Rapporteur, because I am sure you would be sensitive to their words, as you are to that of Mr. Pierre Moscovici. Although they have a lot of work to do, we have not decided to recruit three times more, or even 60% more; Above all, we have not decided to pay them three times more or 60% more. Since the High Council for Public Finance has had additional work this year, I would agree to offer a covid-19 bonus of 1500 euros to each of its members, as was done for nurses. It's the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u75	[[Smile]] What about the members of the Finance Committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u76	Stop mixing carrots and turnips!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u77	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u78	Since you have defended both your amendments at the same time, I will make a consolidated reply, if I may. In your speech, you may not have sufficiently reflected the work done on the "Council and State Control" mission by the members of my parliamentary team and by the National Assembly Administrator, whom I thank. We have studied the matter closely, and we have weighed it at the trip of the truth. You have certainly withdrawn, before he is called upon, an amendment which merely aimed at abolishing the funding of the High Council for Public Finance. You consider it an emanation of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance – TSCG – of the European Union, and therefore an instrument of the policy imposed on us by Brussels.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u79	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u80	As for me, I think he is at the service of Parliament, of informing citizens and of the Government. As the Minister Delegate has said, we have the independent budgetary institution with the lowest numbers in the European Union – I believe that in this area we are at the level of Latvia, and behind Estonia and Malta. Is it conceivable for a country like ours, which is the sixth industrial power in the world and whose budget is, to say the least, important? The HCFP must be seen as an institution at the service of democracy and Parliament, in order to shed light on and challenge its analysis of assumptions about the structural deficit, debt, potential growth or the production gap. I therefore believe that there should be no sectarianism or ideology towards this institution: it is useful. You want to reduce its staff and budget...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u81	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u82	Yes, you propose to maintain them. I don't have time to develop, but you want to do it for the benefit of the administrative courts, making a transfer from one to the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u83	Please conclude, Mr. Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u84	There would be a lot to say. Maybe we'll have a chance to get back to it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u85	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u86	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] Mr Ruffin, you have explained to us that the figures do not interest you too much, but let us be precise! You cannot say that those who work on the High Council will see their income or salary increase by 60%! That's a little what your wording suggests. I know your goal is to have 2 million views on Facebook, but it's not mine, which is to restore the facts. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The aim is not to increase the remuneration of the members of the High Council for Public Finance by 60 per cent, but to provide the institution with additional resources to enable it to carry out independent tasks, mainly in the service of Parliament but also of the Government, and thus to improve parliamentary work. It seems to me that, without demagogy, we should at least find ourselves on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u87	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u88	The facts, Mr.Fesneau, are these: the budget of the High Council for Public Finance will increase by 60%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u89	Yes, the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u90	Not the wages!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u91	Yes, the budget. I'm waiting for the hospital's budget, in the midst of a coronavirus crisis, to rise in the same way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u92	This has nothing to do with it! Stop the two-ball demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u93	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You say that the HCFP is at the service of democracy and Parliament, but there are other bodies for this: the OFCE – Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques –, the CAE – Conseil d'analyse économique –, the INSEE – Institut national de la statistique et des économiques... It is not as if we do not already have a pluralism of views on these issues. It is not necessary to increase the budget of this thing... finally, the HCFP. We have what we need.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u94	Something, something... a little respect, Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u95	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The general of the budget, Pierre Moscovici, warns us that "it is imperative to quickly put social security back on a path of financial equilibrium". Now we're going to have to tighten the belt on the salaries in the hospitals, and it's Mr. Moscovici who warns us – the same one who then calls for a 60% increase for him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u96	It's not for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u97	Stop lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u98	[[New exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Yes, I do! And we have just learned from Mr Benoit, that I am grateful for this, that Mr Moscovici, not content with being paid 14500 euros net, is cumulating these allowances with his retirements as a Member of Parliament, a Member of the European Parliament and a Commissioner! And so it's this guy, who just got a 60% increase for the HCFP budget, who then gives lessons to the French whose incomes are very modest on austerity, rigor and the need to tighten the belt?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ruffin...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u100	How do you want the French to understand that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u101	Clap of the end! Cut!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u102	The movie's in the box!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u103	I shall first put to the vote Amendment No 1518.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u104	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 45 Number of votes cast 44 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 3 Against 41
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u105	I now put to the vote Amendment No. 1520.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u106	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 41 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 3 Against 38
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u107	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 1469.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u108	It simply aims to apply to the Court of Auditors what it advocates for others, but never for itself. If savings are to be made at this time of budgetary tension, they must be made in sectors that are not essential for the management of the health and social crisis. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Under programme 164, it is planned to increase the budget allocated to the Court of Auditors by EUR 500000, with the sole aim of recruiting ten additional FTEs, five of which are only to prepare for membership in the UN Board of Auditors. We therefore propose to limit the increase in the employment ceiling to five FTEs, which would result in savings of EUR 250,000, without preventing the Court from exercising its essential function of controlling public authorities and public funds. In the deteriorating fiscal environment we are experiencing, we believe that efforts must be made. Such a budget would be better used, for example, in hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u109	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u110	The request for an increase in the Court of Auditors' employment ceiling seems to me justified, first of all in preparing its mandate 2022-2028 for the United Nations Board of Auditors, but also because its scope of investigation has expanded. I would remind you that it now covers the certifications of the State accounts, the general social security schemes and the parliamentary assemblies, the advisory and support missions to the Government and the Parliament and the expanded supervision of bodies calling for public generosity, together with the extension of the mission of certifying the accounts of the local authorities and that of the powers of control over social and medical-social institutions and private health institutions. The committee did not consider the amendment; In my personal capacity, I am unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u112	I hear what you are saying, Mr David, but I would point out to you that, in relation to the multiannual development which had been decided, the increase in the employment ceiling will finally be less rapid than expected, given the situation which you have mentioned. Secondly, as the Special Rapporteur has said, the Court of Auditors has been given additional tasks for several years, including the certification of community accounts, which I believe is useful for all. The increase should therefore enable the Court to meet a number of requests and needs. What we are doing for her, we are also doing for CNIL, to which additional responsibilities have also been assigned, and which must be able to exercise them. The opinion is therefore unfavourable. I hear what you are saying about the budgetary tension, but we have ensured this by changing the employment ceiling.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u113	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u114	All administrations are asked to make savings, and the Court of Auditors is the first to advocate them. To those who are still demanding efforts from the communities – it is even a leitmotiv – we ask to make one: hire less. At this time, everyone has to tighten their belt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u115	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u116	Yesterday, we were looking at the school education budget. By the beginning of 2021, there will be an additional 28,000 students in secondary education. However, it was decided to abolish 1,800 teaching posts to accommodate these 28,000 additional students. You see, this amendment raises the following question: how can we restore confidence in the State, in the values of the Republic? To restore them and make them live effectively, social justice and equality are needed. It is not five FTEs that frown us more than that, but these very visible inequalities. These 1800 posts in secondary education would do the Republic more good than these five posts in the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u117	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to support Amendment No. 750.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u118	It tends to strengthen the resources allocated to the CNDA, which you have discussed at length, Mr.Minister Delegate, recalling the efforts already made. These efforts have been made for several years, under this quinquennium and the previous quinquennium, because there was a huge increase in cases and too long wait times. Strengthening remains necessary in the current context of a migration crisis, in order to enable support to match the demands. The reduction of appeal times and the acceleration of proceedings before the CNDA entail an overload of work which requires compensation in terms of human and financial resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u120	Dear colleague, you are raising an issue that fits my concerns: are the means of administrative courts sufficient? Of course, we need to pay particular attention to this, and I try to do so every year in my special reports. All means must be mobilised to avoid both the congestion of these administrative courts and a decline in the rights of the citizens. While budgetary appropriations are an important tool, other ways must also be explored: the non-judicial treatment of certain cases; simplification, a topic on which I invite you to read the recommendations of the Council of State on foreign disputes; the development of the decision support centres. I would like to draw attention to the number of staff required for the proper functioning of the CNDA, while recalling the great efforts already made in this area. This amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but in my personal capacity I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u121	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u122	First of all, I would like to commend the efforts of successive governments, including the one you support, to provide the CNDA with resources. I would also like to commend the CNDA officers, who are doing a remarkable and very difficult job, at a time when the number of cases is growing. During our exchanges with them, it became clear that, thanks to the increase in the number of jobs, the means at their disposal should enable them to achieve the objectives. The year was difficult because the processing of cases was slowed down, first by a strike by lawyers, and then by the health crisis, which had a major impact on procedures, on the ability to handle and monitor these cases. The health crisis also prevented recruitment planned for 2020, which had to be postponed to 2021. Nevertheless, the financial and, above all, human resources – they are the ones that will enable the cases to be processed within a reasonable time for both the State and asylum-seekers – seem sufficient to us. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u123	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 994 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u124	Until a recent decision of the Constitutional Council, in order to be able to challenge a post-parking package – FPS – before the CPSC, he had to pay his fine first. This decision of the Constitutional Council poses several problems. First, it is likely that some motorists will prefer not to pay for their parking and seek legal redress. Secondly, there is a risk that cities will be congested. Third, this could lead to a congestion on the CPSC. Fourthly, this could reduce parking revenues for municipalities. Why did the Constitutional Council take this decision? It considered that the law on the modernization of territorial public action and the affirmation of metropolises, known as the MAPTAM law, which had introduced this principle, had not provided for any exceptions to the prior payment of the FPS in order to initiate an appeal. What were these possible exceptions? The fact that you are a person with a disability, with reduced mobility. The fact that we got his car stolen and the thief illegally parked. The fact that there was a license plate usurpation. Through this amendment, I propose two things. First of all, I propose to reintroduce the idea of paying his parking fine in advance before being able to appeal to the CPSC, but with exceptions: persons with reduced mobility who own a macaroon, those who have been robbed of their cars, those who have been usurped their license plates. Secondly, I propose that an action brought before the CPSC, by a person who is subject to the exceptions or not, be suspensive of the payment of the fine. The Constitutional Council had not foreseen this case. A motorist may consider in good faith that the appeal allows him to wait for the decision of the CPSC before paying; The Treasury will issue an enforceable order asking him to pay his fine. To sum up: we reinstate the obligation to pay his fine before bringing a suit before the CPSC, except in the cases I have indicated, and we are ensuring that this remedy is suspensive of the payment of the fine. This proposal protects the interests of motorists while putting an end to the imbroglio following the decision of the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u126	I cannot present these provisions better than the Special Rapporteur, which are designed to solve a very complex problem which he has better control of than I do. The decision of the Constitutional Council could lead to a stalemate in the treatment of appeals and in the revenue of local authorities. Although the scheme is likely to benefit from refinement during the shuttle, the Government is in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u127	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u128	[[Laughs]] [[Same movements]] Mr Special Rapporteur, I would like to thank you: while this House often lacks passion, you have a lot of passion in controlling parking, charging and so on. There's something wrong with taking a stand on this subject! Honestly, I admire! As a result, I followed the demonstration, even though I can't say I'm taken from the same passion. It seems to me that this is a "reasonable" and "balanced" amendment, as they say on some benches. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] More seriously, I would like to thank you for taking the time to respond to the amendments, since the beginning of the evening. This is not always the case on the benches of the commission and the Government, perhaps due to some wear and tear, but sometimes with contempt. I don't feel it tonight and I'm just telling you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u129	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u130	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u131	You're quoting license plate errors, Mr. Special Rapporteur. Have you also identified the problems caused by the transfer of plates? In addition, in municipalities where there are several parking areas, people may be mistaken within the boundaries of the area. Have you really listed all possible cases of recourse?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u132	I call the appropriations of the mission "Public authorities", listed in state B. On Amendments Nos 1593, 1594, 1587, 1598 and 1612, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) that requests for public ballots have not been submitted. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1593.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u133	If our sitting can be held this evening in this House, in this National Assembly, which is an epidemic home, it is because the housekeepers are doing their job. "We rub deep," Patricia explained, "the door handles, the switches, the microphones, the backrests of chairs, with a virucide. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u134	I thought it was Graziella?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u135	I hope to change something concrete during my term – not a huge thing, a little thing for the housekeepers of the National Assembly. I try everywhere: in the gallery, with the quaestor, in committee. I therefore take advantage of the debate on this budgetary mission, especially since it seems to me that this is the time. President Macron told us: "We must also remember that our country today holds on to women and men whom our economies recognize and pay so badly. The maintenance officers are part of it. It's time. What I am presenting are amendments of decency. They may not love me, I understand it very well,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u136	What a lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u137	... but I ask my colleagues to vote consciously, to respond conscientiously. We cannot advocate fairness, equality, justice, fraternity, and have this beam in our eye. What's the situation? For what salary do they do this job? I have the payrolls of the housekeepers of the Bourbon Palace, which range from 740 to 780 euros for those who work part-time – by far the most – to 1430 euros for those who work full-time. What are their schedules and what life do they lead? Usually, they arrive at six o'clock in the morning to leave at nine o'clock: three hours of paid work a little more than 10 euros per hour. Graziella says: "I live in Les Mureaux, I get up at four o'clock, I take the bus at four o'clock fifty-three to reach the station and take the train at five o'clock three, and arrive at Saint-Lazare at six o'clock ten, in principle, because the train is often late, and I sometimes cry. After work, I'm back on the train at nine o'clock seven. I ask him, "So you're coming for three hours of work? She answers: "Yes, I have been doing this since 1993. » Three hours paid 10 euros an hour, that's 30 euros: we have earned much more since the beginning of the session. A lot, a lot more. With the income we receive, we have to be decent. Women are at the service of deputies, of the Assembly, of democracy, one might say, but also at the service of the High Council for Public Finance. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] This amendment, the first in a series of five, aims to raise the salaries of housekeepers in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u139	Mr Ruffin, my answer will also be for your other amendments, which are similar to this one. It is to your honour to make known the fate of housekeepers: I congratulate you. I would simply like to point out that constitutional public authorities enjoy organizational autonomy. It is not an amendment of the National Assembly that will raise the wages of housekeepers. This topic is the responsibility of the Quaestors of the Assembly and the Senate and the Secretaries-General of the Presidency of the Republic and the Constitutional Council. Even if your purpose is commendable, we are not going to increase the wages of housekeepers. Your other amendments pursue the same objective, by taking funds from different programmes: my opinion is unfavourable for each of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u140	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u141	I commend your fight on the salaries paid to housekeepers and other staff of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u143	You're not the only one leading it, but it's good that you're part of it. The Government, like the Special Rapporteur, will give an opinion against these amendments, because of the principle of separation of powers. Imagine that the Government is defending an amendment that goes against yours: what would you say? Your amendment reduces the means of one institution, the President of the Republic, to abound the appropriations of another institution in order to raise the wages of housekeepers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u144	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u145	I am not saying that your fight is illegitimate, and I understand that you are leading it, but these decisions belong to the institutions, here in the National Assembly, there in the Senate. Respect for the separation of powers prevents us from doing so. It's as simple as that. This is a matter for each institution and their wage policy. It is for this reason, and for this reason only – that there is no ambiguity between us, Mr. Ruffin – that the Government gives an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u146	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u147	You salute my fight: it's good, but it's not important. It's just nice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u148	That's true.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u149	You say, Mr Special Rapporteur, that we cannot act in this area. You're a prick! If we here are not able to raise the wages of the housekeepers of the National Assembly, what can we do? If we cannot act on what is happening next to us, on the situation of women who open the door every morning – I sleep in my office – and who wash the shower, what can we do for the country? I can immediately abandon this series of amendments if there are votes in the majority to call this fight fair and to lead it with me, asking the Quaestors to raise wages, to end subcontracting or to introduce a thirteenth month.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u150	We've already done things! We've increased the activity premium!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u151	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] Mrs Motin, I'm talking about women who earn 800 euros a month. They get up at four o'clock in the morning and you tell me you've raised the activity bonus. Do you realize the indecency that there is to say that, when you earn 7800 euros net per month? 7800 euros gross, okay, but that doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u152	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u153	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] I asked myself the same question as François Ruffin a few weeks ago. I interviewed a maid – they leave the assembly early in the morning and are on the way out when we arrive. They are paid to SMIC and because they do not work a lot of hours, their salary is not very high at the end of the day or month. It is not demagogic to say that François Ruffin's inquiry seems to me justified. The reply of the Minister Delegate and the Special Rapporteur is appropriate. I have held that it is not by voting on this amendment that we can decide to improve the remuneration of cleaning agents. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] It seems to me that we are all in agreement and ready to ask for a Quaestor or the Speaker of the National Assembly. In a house where MPs receive 5000 euros and where some bailiffs and administrative staff have salaries far higher than those of MPs – others touch a little less – it is possible to give a kind and attentive look to housekeepers, who start their day very early in the morning so that we can be operational at eight o'clock and get up at an hour for twenty-five or thirty years. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] I am in favour of Members taking a collective approach to raising awareness among those responsible for this house. I said in the gallery, a little over an hour ago, that we had put order in this house. I look at the first quaestor, Florian Bachelier, who is participating in our debates and who has been among those who have committed themselves to putting order and making savings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u154	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u155	Part of these savings can be allocated to better remuneration of housekeepers. I support the approach of our colleague François Ruffin,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u156	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u157	...and I'm sure I'm not the only one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u158	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u159	It is rather nice that colleagues support François Ruffin's amendment. I understand, Mr Special Rapporteur, Mr Delegate, that you say that the amendment is not the appropriate tool. This is a technical response, even if this technique has a highly political background. But perhaps we expected a commitment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u160	That's not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u161	... at least from the Special Rapporteur and colleagues of the majority, to mobilize against a situation which we find indecent and which persists before our eyes. We have a duty of exemplaryness. In our country, especially in recent years, there have been extremely important struggles of housekeepers, for example in hotels: we have seen the low level of their wages, as well as the behaviors and even attacks they suffered. I think it is extremely important for Members to struggle to ensure that the housekeepers of our institution have a decent wage. During the first confinement, I saw a lot of men speaking on television and in newspapers with war rhetoric, sometimes with their feet on the desk. But when I had to go out, I only saw women: women behind the coffers, women cleaning in the assembly, women in the public hospital, women everywhere in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u162	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u163	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Their jobs are the most devalued. Mr Ruffin's amendment is also a call for an increase in the wages of these women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u164	Mr Florian Bachelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u165	[[Riressur several benches of the LaREM group]] As Mr Ruffin knows, we saw each other at the very beginning of the legislature in 2017. First, 35% of the House's housekeepers are men. Secondly, these persons are neither civil servants nor contract agents: there are four public contracts, for which four public tenders are launched, with four public specifications, which have evolved in three years. I know their level of pay – I come from this community that Mr.Ruffin only attends via digital platforms. The salaries of Housekeepers in the Assembly are 20 per cent higher than all other contracts. There are Christmas bonuses and French classes. I received the CGT dockers, which follows this question, with which we agreed to advance an ideal specification, precisely to fulfill our mission of exemplaryness. We have worked in practice on this subject, and we have changed positions. The last call for tenders introduced a social clause, because – this is a fight that we share with Mr Ruffin – we wanted to mix schedules to prevent household workers from working at night and leaving the National Assembly at six o'clock in the morning, so that they share common timetables with Assembly staff, Members of Parliament and parliamentary collaborators. I have been hearing from Mr Ruffin for three years on this subject. I invited him to my office to work with me on the concrete modification of the specifications, but he never came.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u166	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u167	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On the other hand, he makes videos on YouTube.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u168	Words, but no deeds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u169	So, Mr. Ruffin, you're not asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u170	I will respond by defending my next amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u171	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1593.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u172	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 6 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u173	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1594.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u174	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr Bachelier, I do not wish to debate this issue with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u175	I mean it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u176	Stop! I haven't done it since the beginning of the discussion.I know who we're talking about and I'm trying to do it with decency. I've sent a lot of letters, but I don't want to get into personal controversy or adversarial discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u177	What are you doing, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u178	But please stop, Mrs. Motin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u179	Oh, no! For once, it's not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u180	Madam President, I call for the silence of Mrs Motin and her colleagues. I am trying to express myself calmly on a subject which I believe is essential and I ask that I be able to do so in silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u181	We've known the House more shook than we did tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u182	Especially by you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u183	[[Claims on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Thank you, Madam President, but your responsibility is to maintain order and not to invite...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u184	Calm down, Mr. Ruffin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u185	Order and calm rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u186	If that's how it is...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u187	Mr Special Rapporteur, you have already given your opinion, have you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u188	Yes, he's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u189	You, too, Minister Delegate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u190	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u191	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1594.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u192	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 41 Number of votes cast 39 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 6 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u193	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1587.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u194	Mrs. Motin, Mr. Bachelier, you don't like me. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u195	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u196	With these appeal amendments, I try to see how to speed up the improvement of the situation of housekeepers in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u197	By working really hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u198	I had tabled a bill on this matter. This amendment is intended to grant a thirteenth month for all women and men in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u199	They got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u200	No, Mr. Bachelier, they don't have it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u201	You don't know the file!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u202	I've been studying the file...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u203	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u204	The thirteenth month concerns foremans and is not generalized to subcontractors of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u205	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u206	No, he's not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u207	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u208	I am not saying that the National Assembly is a worse donor than other institutions or private sector companies. Simply put, we should be exemplary on two aspects that go together: wages and hours. The housekeepers of the National Assembly work as follows: they arrive very early and work two to three hours, to earn 30 to 40 euros. They often have a second place of work, in the evenings between eighteen and twenty-one hours. They have very broken days, during which they do not see their family. That is the reality in the National Assembly and throughout the country! I ask my colleagues: how can we get out of this situation together?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u209	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Ruffin, you say that some people don't like you, so let me quote Jean Anouilh: "There is love. And then there's life, her enemy. » The Special Rapporteur and the Deputy Minister have already expressed their unfavorable opinion. Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u210	Mr Ruffin, I join you in your fight to improve the working conditions of these women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u211	We didn't wait for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u212	The only reproach that can be made to you is to use the Chamber to lead it, whereas this is not the place. Why don't you alert the Members to work together to improve things? I've never received an email from you about this! We could have gone to the Quaestors. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat, I support you in this fight. But Mr Bachelier has answered you, and I have no reason to question his word more than yours. If he reached out to you to write something with him and you didn't get it, I find it a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u213	But I've been there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u214	You use the Chamber for demagogic purposes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u215	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u216	... when we could work in-house with the Quaestors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u217	We're gonna end up beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall give the floor to a speaker who supports the amendment, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, and then I shall take the view that the House is sufficiently well informed. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u219	Madam President, you can say that you have known more chahut; Given our number, we can't do much more...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u220	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u221	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds. – Ms Cendra Motin protested]] I sincerely find that the charges against Mr. Ruffin have been of very little substance for the past few years. That's enough! A subject is dealt with and I have the impression that you absolutely do not want to look him in the face. These are questions that we prefer to put under the carpet, like dust, rather than treating them with dignity. Answer the question asked! You can blame Mr. Ruffin a lot, but he's been talking about housewives in the National Assembly for three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u222	But he's not talking about it in the right place!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u223	I'm not going to say he's breaking our ears, but he talks about it regularly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u224	I'm working on it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u225	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] Good thing you're working on it, Mr. Bachelier! That's your role!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u226	And he does it right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u227	Members of Parliament defend matters through amendments, legislative proposals, press conferences: this is their job!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u228	Some people prefer to do the buzz on social networks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u229	[[New protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] Don't talk to me about social media, we don't ask you about what you're doing there! Answer on the bottom rather than not looking at reality in the face!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u230	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1587.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u231	No, Madam President, I ask for the floor! I'm not enlightened enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u232	[[Smile]] I'm full of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u233	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 7 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u234	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1598.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u235	Mr Millienne, I have tabled a bill concerning housekeepers; It was open to co-signature of all MPs and was sent to all. I do not want to create a controversy in this debate. On the contrary, I'm taking the ball at the jump. I can hear you saying you're sensitive to this cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u236	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u237	I will prepare a motion for a resolution on housekeepers in the National Assembly and submit it to the co-signatures. I am told that the accounts of the National Assembly have been made clear: I hope that we will find room for manoeuvre to improve their situation. Tonight, I don't want to engage in a polemic. I try to make sure that, among humans, we improve the fate of humans who help us every morning; that we show decency towards these women who come to our service.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u238	And you, Mr. Ruffin, do you have a cleaning lady? How much do you pay for it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u239	I welcome all the good wishes that will be expressed: Mr. Benoit, Mr. Millienne, and perhaps even, despite everything that separates us, Mrs. Motin... [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I hope that we will move towards the institutionalization of the Housekeepers of the National Assembly. Subcontracting produces abuse, but it is not a fatality. There was a time when housekeepers, including in the Assembly, were better treated by our society, because they were integrated and not outsourced as today. The aim of Amendment No. 1598 is therefore to empower housekeepers of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u240	The Special Rapporteur and the Deputy Minister have already expressed their unfavorable opinion. Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u241	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] I'm not totally enlightened and I want to question the Quaestor. The subject is interesting and important. I say it and I repeat it: in recent years, the Quaestors, especially the first of them, have done a real job of putting our shop in order. The issue of housekeepers can be carefully examined; I do not know whether it is at the level of the specifications or whether it is a specific service. I don't know the status of everyone in this house, but I know that there are different statutes that allow for different pay and consideration. I trust the first quaestor to take initiatives, look at all this more closely and determine how to improve the ordinary of housekeepers. I am sure that he can – not with a slamming of a finger, it is true – find solutions and ways of convergence with the providers, to satisfy them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u242	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u243	Mr Florian Bachelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u244	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to respond to our excellent colleague Thierry Benoit. I believe that we cannot do more than ask the CGT dockers, in charge of this subject, to communicate an ideal specification – the one it has been claiming for years – so that it can be applied, because we are in the National Assembly. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u246	Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u247	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u248	Mr Bachelier, you are telling us that the CGT dockers did not send you the specifications. Is that where it's stuck?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u249	We send a model specifications, then they complete it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u250	So you have the specifications? Where are you in the process?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u251	Please, this is not a private conversation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u252	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Madam President, this is my last amendment on cleaning women in the National Assembly. I'm looking for us to get out of here having made even a small step forward. I want to understand, because the CGT dockers didn't make me hear the same bell sound. Are you saying you're waiting for the specifications back? Answer me, Mr Bachelier!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u253	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1598.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u254	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 7 Against 35
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u255	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1612.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u256	It's not clear to me: what's the status of the case? I had a meeting with the trade unionists two weeks ago,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u257	Two weeks ago? I've been working on it for almost four years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u258	...and it didn't seem to have made so much progress! I just want to know where it is. Mr Benoit, with all the sympathy I have for the first quaestor, I think we can trust him a little, but it would also be a good thing to put pressure on and ensure, as a group, that the improvement of the situation of housekeepers is really a priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u259	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u260	Both go hand in hand: trust and accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u261	That's right! We agree, Mr. Ruffin! We'll take the first quaestor by the hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u262	[[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] In the mission "Public authorities", on page 52, I read that "the guardian [of the Court of Justice of the Republic], who also provides maintenance of the premises, envisages retirement at the end of 2021. In the event that she leaves her post early, it will be necessary to budget for the maintenance of the premises and to have them carried out by a private company. This is an emblematic case of the planned degradation of the status of maintenance workers. Previously, we had a person integrated into the structure, titularized, who lived on site and worked full-time. When she retires, she will be replaced by a subcontractor who will come from afar, get up at four o'clock in the morning, like the housekeepers of the National Assembly, and will be underpaid. I ask that we have a proper budget to question the Court of Justice of the Republic; the path of progress is not that of subcontracting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u264	This person does not plan to retire until the end of 2021; the budget amendment will therefore have to be foreseen for the financial year 2022. You know what might happen to the Court of Justice of the Republic. The institution has already cancelled the lease of the premises it currently occupies, it has already returned its furniture... This institution has no real future, but even if that were the case, the replacement of this person would not take place until 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u266	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u267	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u268	We have before our eyes, at work, the typical case of degradation. I was recently questioning a manager of the Federation of Clean-up Enterprises, who told me that the public sector accounted for 25% of the markets; This sector has a duty of exemplaryness, because it shows the way to other employers. Therefore, avoid subcontracting, shift work and low wages! If the public sector does, it can have a driving effect on the rest of the employers. I will conclude this sequence on cleaning women as I began, with President Macron's statement in the spring: "We must also remind ourselves that our country today is holding on to women and men whom our economies recognize and pay so badly. It was in the spring; We're in the fall and honestly, I feel like we've already forgotten it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u269	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u270	As Mr Ruffin likes to quote me, I would like to recall, without any controversial intention, the action that the majority has taken in favour of low wages. We have increased the activity premium and, above all, we have made it accessible. It was a theoretical right, we made it a real right, from more than EUR 1 billion of distributed business bonus to more than 4 billion. We have abolished the housing tax for 80% of French citizens; Housekeepers no longer pay for it, especially in the Paris region, where it can be very expensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u271	But they didn't pay her!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u272	During confinement, we maintained 80% of the net salary of home employees paid in CESU – universal service employment cheques – including housekeepers. Without the vote of the corresponding measure in the law of amending finance, they would not have perceived anything. In my permanence, I also appealed to a claimant, according to an ambitious specification. I hope you have all done the same: like the National Assembly, our permanences must be exemplary. Thanks to the partial activity scheme, the claimant maintained the wages of his employees. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, negotiations are under way and are due to be concluded in 2021. The Prime Minister, along with Elizabeth Borne, Minister of Labour, Employment and Integration, spoke of this at the social conference this week, specifically on the wages of those on the second line.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u273	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1612.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u274	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 45 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 6 Against 39
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u275	I call the appropriations of the mission "Directorate of Government Action", listed in statement B. The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 999.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u276	It covers funds from the NSMS, the General Secretariat for Defence and National Security. The Deputy Minister spoke about this earlier and a question was asked about DINUM. There is general agreement that the NSMS budget poses a readability problem. This institution is responsible for coordinating the technical capacity-building of ministries through upstream reflection. Last year, €89.6 million was transferred from the NSMS budget to other government departments to carry out the relevant operations. However, the rule on legibility, confirmed by a report by the Court of Auditors, requires Parliament to be able to monitor the appropriations allocated to certain operations. Those we're talking about are beyond the control of Program 129, which may experience difficulties in estimating them in the original finance law and in assessing their implementation in the course of the year. It is essential that parliamentarians be able to verify the final use of appropriations; However, at the stage of the settlement law, it is not explicitly stated what their use has been. For all these reasons, the purpose of this amendment is to transfer the €78 million dedicated to technical capacity-building operations from ministries to their budgets. I do not see the point of freezing these appropriations in the NSMS budget since this is not where they will ultimately be used.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u277	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u278	You are proposing to reduce the NSMS budget by €78 million, because these are investment appropriations that will be transferred to the budgets of other departments. We had this debate last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u279	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u280	The Government understands your intention to ensure the readability of the programme; However, the opinion on this amendment is unfavourable. These funds support projects that are led and funded primarily by different departments, but that carry out interdepartmental missions. Therefore, the contribution of the NSMS is consistent with the very nature of its missions in support of interdepartmental action; It is involved in the development of national security products and has a right of control over their origins. In addition, the amount of credits transferred varies from year to year, depending on the projects. The transfer mechanism thus allows the best adjustment of the allocation of resources in the various ministries that develop these security technologies and products.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u281	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1002.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u282	The subject is different; I mentioned it in my opening remarks. The "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement" mission covers two items of expenditure which are not accounted for anywhere. The High Commissioner for the Plan was instructed to "intelligate the choices of the public authorities with regard to demographic, economic, social, environmental, health, technological and cultural issues". I am told that his mission will have an eventful dimension, because he will organize symposia, and that in the long run – we don't know what term – he will lead a team of ten people. A secretary-general and a secretary have already been recruited; other people will be. However, the budget blue does not include a line dedicated to the High Commissioner for the Plan. In addition, the Prime Minister wanted to raise the employment ceiling for each department. Earlier, Mr. Deputy Minister, you mentioned some 30 additional recruitments in the cabinets. However, we know the average, very substantial, wages that run in ministerial offices: they are not the same as those of Mr Ruffin's housekeepers. You tell us that the credits are sufficient. Either the appropriations on the perimeter were far too large, or there is a problem. If you claim to find in previous appropriations what to pay thirty employees in the firms, the sincerity of the budget can be called into question. Again, nothing is written in the blue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u283	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u284	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u285	Regarding ministerial offices, as I mentioned earlier, the recruitment of departments and the High Commission was assessed in July to about 30 people – cabinet members and associated support staff. This figure is not yet definitive. I repeat, these recruitments will be carried out within the employment ceiling and the amount of staff credits entered in Program 129. They will not be the subject of a request for additional appropriations or an increase in the employment ceiling. The appropriations that your amendment aims to remove in the sub-action on ministerial cabinets correspond to the inclusion of the GVT – technical old age shift – of staff affected and the evolution of the number of cabinet members at the end of 2019 and the beginning of 2020. With regard to non-Title 2 appropriations, the increase of EUR 1 million is linked to the increase in the rent of the Ségur-Fontenoy site. The operating budget of the High Commissioner for the Plan will be comparable to that of the other structures of this size, i.e. between EUR 200000 and EUR 300000 per year, for the volume of people you mentioned. It will be integrated, without additional abundance, into the mutualised expenditure of Action 10, the purpose of which is precisely to ensure the support of the entities attached to the Prime Minister. In the light of the elements of justification and precision I have just given you, I would ask you to withdraw your amendment; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u286	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1001.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u287	It concerns the Government's information system, another subject that I come back to every year – I will probably continue as long as I return the funds for this mission. I have asked to receive all the studies that have been carried out. Their nature raises real questions. To govern is to choose; We have the impression that, for you, it necessarily goes through opinion polls. Between March and the break-up, forty-eight polls were conducted: millions of euros were spent to find out what the French people met on the street! Again, there is a problem of budgetary insinuity. In 2020, to date, EUR 26.15 million has been spent on this IMIS appropriation line, which initially had EUR 14 million. Of course, these expenses can be explained. Nevertheless, you have budgeted for 2021 the same amount as in 2020, i.e. EUR 14 million. You are spending 26 million, that is to say 184% of the appropriations voted, which will be doubled over the year, and you are planning 14 million: it would be more honest to put in appropriations that are consistent with reality. I therefore propose to increase IMIS appropriations by EUR 12 million, at the expense of programme 359 "French Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2022". This presidency will start in 2022 and you plan to spend 47 million euros in 2021: that leaves us a little margin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u288	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u289	On this subject, Mrs Dalloz, I recognize your consistency. Contrary to what you say, opinion polls and surveys did not cost EUR 10 million, but EUR 1.6 million. They are not only intended to identify opinion, but can also be used to learn about the reception of an awareness campaign. Then, in the budgetary year that is coming to an end, most of the increase in the budget is linked to the installation of the citizens' information telephone platform, which I mentioned in my opening remarks, for about 9 million euros – I quote the amount of memory. In this area, the crisis of the covid-19 has had serious consequences, which the GIS has taken care of, in particular with this platform. You propose to draw up appropriations from the programme "French Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2022". However, it is planned that a third of the budget required for this event will be spent in the financial year 2021. The French Presidency begins on 1 January 2022, but I do not think it is unreasonable to consider spending before. You know what it is all about, since you supported a government that has assumed the presidency of the European Union, requiring a number of preparatory work and expenditure. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u290	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u291	Our colleague Marie-Christine Dalloz cannot be suspected of not knowing the figures and their budget allocations. In his remarks, the number of polls ordered sounds particularly in my ear, because of the money that falls into the escarcelle of the survey institutes to know, day after day, how the morale of the French is. Why not, but the survey does not provide a solution. I had the opportunity to say on several occasions the confidence I had in the survey institutes. The problem is not new: Winston Churchill had said the first that he trusted only the polls that he himself had twisted – in that case, we're sure they're going in the right direction! What bothers me, above all, is that those who make no effort to help the Government continue to enrich themselves. Have you seen who owns ten survey institutes? Take a look and you'll see who gets rich with this budget line. I do not dispute what you have just said, Minister Delegate: we must indeed prepare for the European summits. But it was not on this point that Mrs Dalloz's observation was about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u292	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u293	The telephone platform, originally estimated at EUR 9 million, will have cost EUR 9 million in 2020. But of the 26 million consumed, even if there is, as you say, only 1.3 million for the polls – in my opinion, it must be much more – the reality is that the difference is important. If the crisis continues as we see it today, or if it amplifies, I can't imagine that there will be fewer polls! By 2021, I would like the figures recorded to be as close to reality as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u294	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1589.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u295	The Defender of Rights has seen complaints to him increase by 7.5 per cent in one year, and by 40 per cent since Jacques Toubon's arrival in 2014. In the area of security ethics, the increase exceeds 170 per cent. But the resources have not increased accordingly, since the budget remains stable between 2020 and 2021, at a low level of EUR 22 million. Citizens who turn to the Defender of Rights therefore find it difficult to obtain a response within a reasonable time, which the Defender himself regrets. It seems to us that in times of confinement, emergency, curfew, it is all the more necessary for the Defender of Rights to be a strong institution, capable of guaranteeing the rule of law for all citizens. I therefore hope that the Moscovici case law, which we have inaugurated this evening, will be applied here. As the High Council for Public Finance needs to give more opinion, its budget is increased by 60%; The Defender of Rights must also benefit from a budgetary increase proportional to that of his activity. I had planned to triple the budget, since the finance bill originally provided for a tripling of the budget of the High Council for Public Finance... But I am consistent, and I am prepared to accept a Government sub-amendment that would reduce the increase in the Ombudsman's budget to only 60 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u296	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u297	I understand your wish. However, I have looked at the evolution of the jobs available to the Defender of Rights: in 2020, he received three additional full-time equivalents, and in 2021, he will again be granted two additional full-time equivalents. These last two jobs are intended to strengthen its territorial network, which the Defender of Rights wants to develop, which we can all welcome. I note, moreover, that he is looking for premises to install his new staff in the territories, particularly in connection with the prefectures. An increase in resources is organised from a multi-annual perspective; She's getting ready upstream. I also note that the teams of the Defender of Rights, which I have audited, are very well organized; Despite the significant increase in the number of referrals, the processing time for cases is decreasing from year to year. The installation of the headquarters at the Ségur-Fontenoy site also resulted in significant operational savings. I will, on the other hand, join you in the future. In the context of the transposition of the European Directive on whistleblowers, it is possible that the mandatory pre-mediation procedure may be widespread, which would be an important task in the years to come. Today, the perspective of the Defender of Rights is rather that of a strengthening of the territorial location, a project for which the budget allocation for 2021 seems to be adapted. The committee has not considered the amendment, but I am rather against it in my personal capacity, not seeing the usefulness of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u298	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u299	I share the feeling of the Special Rapporteur. I also met the Defender of Rights. You say we have to change the means. Beyond the three new FTEs for 2020 and the two for 2021 already mentioned, I would like to recall that the territorial network, made up of volunteers, who are the first to welcome citizens, increased from 475 people in 2017 to 540 in 2021. I would add that twelve heads of regional hubs have been set up to strengthen the institution's expertise and competence and to better animate the network of those working with the Defender of Rights. We must pay tribute to the work of all those who work for this institution. They have alerted us on two subjects: the accompaniment of whistleblowers – these cases are often managed at national rather than local level, and require long follow-up, because they are never in practice closed – and the possible generalisation, in the long term, of pre-mediation, today at the experimental stage. But these are questions that will arise after 2021. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u300	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u301	Thank you for these detailed comments. An AFP dispatch of 8 June 2020 echoes the statements of the Defender of Rights, who speaks of "increasing difficulties in responding to requests addressed to him". It gives a striking example of justice, "often unable to inform victims within a reasonable time of decisions taken after their complaints". What you are telling us reminds us of the beginnings of the labour inspectorate: we first called on volunteers to intervene in the factories, then there was a professionalization. It is probably this question of professionalization that can be asked for the Defender of Rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u302	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1588.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u303	France will preside over the European Union in the first half of 2022, at the same time as the presidential election – just a coincidence. For this happy event, it is necessary to prepare in advance: the draft finance law therefore provides for a specific line, the programme 359 "French Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2022", endowed with 47 million euros for next year, including 19 million for demonstrations which should therefore, it seems, take place in 2021 to prepare the French Presidency. Our citizens will not be celebrating in 2021, and we believe that it should be possible to refrain from celebrating the French Presidency of the European Union in 2022 as early as 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u304	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u305	You understand, Mr Ruffin, that on the pledge of your amendment and the reduction of this envelope, I agreed rather... But on the merits, the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty, today it is 3400 referrals per year and 150 visits to closed places. The rise of this authority took place in eight years. In 2008, the number of staff was 15; In 2015, there were thirty-one jobs; Since 2016, thirty-three jobs. Even if you gave them the amounts you are proposing, they would not be able to use them: the trainings are very specific, the profiles are very specific. The institution's employment ceiling is regularly under-consumpted. There is a regular rotation of staff, and incompressible time is required to recruit a screening officer with the required skills. It is not enough to grant additional appropriations for the Comptroller General to change his size. It is the very structure of this authority that should be developed. However, while tensions can of course be strong today, for example in the case of demonstrations in the prison environment, this is not the case at all. Pretty bad opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u306	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u307	Mr Ruffin, you started by quoting Saint-Exupéry, which was rather nice, and I was hoping the evening would end in that tone. But it is not acceptable, I am telling you frankly, to hear the amalgams that you have just done. It is not a question of organising celebrations of Europe! This is what is unbearable in the public debate: you may not agree, but do not caricature the budget or public action!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u308	Anyway, he caricatures everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u309	We're hurting democracy when we act like that! It is not parties that are organised – the European summits do not seem to me to be parties, but moments of European democratic life. Some expenses have to be incurred in advance: when you organise a European summit in January, figure that you will have to pay suppliers before that, book rooms... There are expenses in advance of phase. Colloquiums, forums, etc. are also organized. This is also the whole question of the association of citizens, for which I am now responsible to the Government, in order to prepare the French presidency of the European Union. I would like to discuss with the Comptroller General the places of deprivation of liberty and the means devoted to him, but first of all, I would like to put the terms of the debate clearly, rather than in a demagogic and somewhat easy way – I am sorry to say so. In substance, I agree with the Special Rapporteur. The budget had been discussed with the structure itself: the Government had always looked at the conditions under which they could carry out their missions with those who requested a budget. Those of the Comptroller General are rather stable. We have talked about the CNIL, the Defender of Rights, the CNDA, and we could have talked about the CSA, the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel: many administrative authorities or various structures have their missions expanded. That's not the case here. The budget allocated to the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty corresponds to the needs of this structure, and God knows if the work she carries out in prisons makes it valuable to us. Its means must be preserved, but we do not think it necessary to increase them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u310	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u311	With regard to the budget allocated to the future French presidency of the European Union, you will have noted, Mr Deputy Minister, that our amendment is in no way intended to call into question the totality of the programme's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u312	Anyway, it's not about parties!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u313	What we are calling into question is the EUR 19 million of Action 02 "Events corresponding to the Presidency's own initiative", to which the highest commitment authorisations are assigned, and in respect of which it is written in the budget document: "Given the operational difficulties encountered by the administrations in the context of the health crisis, the final list of these events has not been the subject of a final arbitration on the date of submission of the PLF". In other words, we are being asked to open a line of appropriations of EUR 19 million for the Presidency of the Republic for the French Presidency of the European Union, completely ignoring what these appropriations will be used for. We will then be in a pre-election presidential campaign, and we know – forgive me for pointing out this – that a number of events, including public debate, have been diverted to the publicity of the President of the Republic. Without demagogy, Minister Delegate, we can still raise the issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u314	I answered you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u315	He doesn't listen to the answers! He doesn't care! It's for the video!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u316	I refer you to the extract of the budget document I have quoted. Things are not clear at all. So we can ask ourselves about that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u317	I call the appropriations in the annex budget "Official publications and administrative information", entered in statement C.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u318	We have completed the review of the appropriations for the missions "Conseil et contrôle de l'Etat", "Governance authorities", "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement" and the annex budget "Official publications and administrative information". The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-29-O1049.u319	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 finance bill: review of the appropriations of the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" and the special allocation account "Agricultural and Rural Development". The meeting is adjourned.
