ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u1	The next item is the debate, on a further reading, after the accelerated procedure has begun, on the draft budget regulation and approval of the accounts for 2019 (No. 3192, 3198).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u3	We will be discussing together the Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill for 2019 at a particular time. The crisis, or post-crisis situation, requires both parliamentary control over the appropriations voted and their use, and a responsible attitude of the Government in the preparation of budgetary provisions and in the use of appropriations. The discussion of a regulatory bill is a key step in Parliament's control of government action, as it is about approving the accounts for the past year. It is also an opportunity for us to be transparent about finances and to demonstrate the sincerity of the past budget. As you know, your House adopted two amendments at first reading. The first modified the introductory article, to take into account the publication, at the end of May, of INSEE's 2019 National Accounts. The second, with the creation of Article 7, ensures better coordination of the general annexes of the initial finance law for 2020. Following its rejection by the Senate – for the second year in a row – this bill contains the text adopted by the National Assembly at first reading, in accordance with the proposal of the Finance Committee. It shows the commitment we have shown throughout 2019 to achieving the public accounts adjustment target set by the President of the Republic as soon as he came to power. Meeting this requirement has led us to achieve 1 billion euros in savings compared to what was included in the original finance bill, as you can see in the accompanying documents. The draft law reflects the sincerity of the Government's budgeting, which is based, inter alia, on the correctness of the budgets in the original finance law, in particular those relating to compulsory expenditure. While minor overruns remain, the overall forecast for payroll has been met. This sincerity is the result of a collective effort for which I thank, once again, the Budget Directorate, the Directorate-General for Public Finance and all the programme managers, who have ensured that parliamentary authorities are scrupulously respected. In this way, the Government has avoided the opening and cancellation of pre-appropriation decrees, which, in our view, deny parliamentary authority: since we have been in charge, we have been careful not to do so, in order to comply with the authorizations given by Parliament to the Government. Still with regard to sencenisation and accountability, I also note the change from 8% in 2017 to 3% in 2019 of the reserve level. This is the result of better controlled, refined and adapted management, accompanied by a strong commitment to budget sincerity and accountability of program managers. Also bearing witness to this quality management, the carry-overs of appropriations have been at their lowest level since 2006, i.e. EUR 1.9 billion in the general budget. This is the result of our commitment to the sincerity of the documents and budgetary provisions that we submit to you. For the second time in a row, the amending finance law did not contain any tax provisions, according to our wish: we made the choice to preserve households and businesses by ensuring fiscal stability, or even a reduction in taxes as far as income tax is concerned – we ensured that the 2019 fiscal year was included in the continuity of the previous one. However, despite the savings, the budget was both demanding and ambitious. Indeed, the Government has chosen to support purchasing power, in particular by increasing the amount of the activity premium. In addition, this budget was for investment. Capital expenditure increased by 5% between 2018 and 2019, bringing the increase since 2017 to 12%. As will still be the case in the future, emphasis has been placed on the rule of law, in particular the armed forces, with the implementation of the Law on Military Programming in line with the guidelines adopted by Parliament. The 2019 financial year has also been used to finance the sectors of the future, in particular by a particularly strong increase in relation to the last 20 years, by almost EUR 1 billion, of the research and higher education budget. Finally, another investment and future sector, the ecological transition was supported by €1.7 billion, which contributed to the financing of the Environment and Energy Management Agency – ADEME – and the ecological transition and the fight against climate change. We can be proud of the 2019 fiscal year that we will close today – pending final reading of the text. Indeed, we have fulfilled the commitments made in the 2019 Finance Act, the priorities of the Government and those of the parliamentary majority have been funded and the exercise is sincere: without a decree in advance – I insist – it is experiencing a very sharp decrease in the reserves, to which we are attached, and thus demonstrates a particular respect for parliamentary budgetary authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] We are now building the budget for 2021, in a new context as we mix the financing of the recovery and the continuation of the financing of the policies we have undertaken and the priorities of the majority. We are careful to respect the multi-annual trajectories, with the exception of the two-year cyclical budgets that we will devote to recovery. I can assure you that the desire for budget consolidation, accountability of managers and parliamentary authorities will be on the agenda for the construction of the 2021 budget as well as for the implementation of the end of the 2020 fiscal year – a commitment that my predecessor has made and to which I, too, am particularly committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u4	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u5	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] What a talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u6	[[Smile]] You can applaud: it is probably the last accounts establishing the deficit at less than 3% of GDP that we will be called upon to vote for a long time...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u7	What a spender!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u8	On Thursday, July 9, MPs and Senators met in Joint Joint Committee – CMP – to discuss the 2019 Settlement Bill. The day before, the bill was rejected in the Senate by 226 votes against. We have heard respectfully this vote, even if the rejection did not seem to us to be based precisely on the text, which must aim to demonstrate the proper implementation of the appropriations for 2019. However, the results are even better than those provided for in the original finance law. It is, however, legitimate to take a political view of a budgetary year, which is not just a good execution, estimated at a figure by figure. Has the recovery of public accounts been sufficient to effectively address the crisis? To ask the right question is to ask ourselves whether the action taken in previous years, particularly in 2019, has given us the means to deal in good conditions with the situation of exceptional gravity that we are experiencing today. Would it have been possible to have more budgetary room for manoeuvre? Has the response to previous conflicts, particularly the yellow vest crisis, been budgetaryly efficient? These are the issues that should drive the debate, which has already taken place in the Senate. In my view, as I have already pointed out at first reading, 2019 was an exceptional year in many respects. By keeping the public accounts, first of all: the public deficit stands at 2.1% of GDP, if we isolate the famous "one off", i.e. the exceptional cumulation of the cost of the competitiveness employment tax credit – CICE – and the relief of expenses. The government deficit was thus in 2019 at the lowest level since 2001. Then we experienced a cyclical surplus: the effects of the 2008 crisis ceased to be felt and a start was made on the surplus – until the current crisis arose. The confidence of the economic actors, which we will discuss at length in the coming months, has resulted in a clear improvement in the business climate, after a fall due in particular to the yellow vest crisis at the end of 2018. The first direct effect of this good economic climate: the dynamism of tax revenues has been much better than expected. Compared to the original finance law, an additional €8 billion was recovered. Another effect of this climate of confidence: French sovereign bonds have negotiated at a particularly low, sometimes negative, interest rate. In this regard, I would like to announce that the report of the flash mission on public debt should be published on the website this afternoon – I invite you to read at least the summary. The debt burden was significantly reduced in 2019; However, as I repeat on every occasion, managing its sovereign debt is tantamount to creating annual budgetary room for manoeuvre, to free billions of euros to finance public policies – not to satisfy a pleasure of technocrat on the banks of the Seine of the 12th arrondissement. In 2019, after many years of growth, the debt ratio stabilized at 98.1% of GDP. Of course, we are now debating whether it will reach 120 or 125 % of GDP by the end of 2020. Nevertheless, it is important to know that in good weather, we have been able to stabilize the debt related to GDP, in accordance with the right cycle of public accounts: to stabilize and reduce debt, to borrow again at the heart of the storm. With regard to expenditure, the 2019 financial year reflects the priorities set by the Government and the legislator in a context of moderation, which also provides margins for today. State spending increased by €6 billion, of which €4 billion was spent on raising the cost of the activity premium, according to the economic and social emergency measures we voted in December 2018, in response to the yellow vest crisis. This improvement was expected, it is financed: the increase in public spending reflects the financing of priority public policies. Management analysis confirms sound budgetary programming and implementation, thereby strengthening the scope of parliamentary spending authority, namely the credibility of our work. First, the expenditure standards set in the original 2019 Finance Act were met. Secondly, the reserve rate for non-staff resources was maintained at the historically low level of 3 per cent. Finally, for the second consecutive year, no advance decrees were issued, which had not happened since 1985. The sincerity of the public accounts – the budgets we vote for – is more important than we would like to believe. It is often said that the shape is drawn by the bottom that goes up to the surface. I have faith in this maxim: without this requirement of sincerity, we do not have that much credit to grant the Government the authority to spend. Through the Spring of Evaluation and the exercise of the monitoring mission granted to us by the Constitution, we must constantly be the watchdog of budgetary sincerity. The exceptional economic and social crisis we are facing must not exempt us from vigilance over the sincerity of public accounts. As rapporteur-general, I will pay particular attention to this in future budgets. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] Senators would have preferred an even better budget situation in 2019 – this is the political game. That is why the CMP failed. For my part, for all the reasons I have outlined above, I call for a renewal of today's favourable vote by the National Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u9	Mr Joël Giraud spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u10	So we have come together to review, on a new reading, the bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts, a long pompous expression that we parliamentarians are giving to the Government for the implementation of the budget that we have previously voted for. The year 2019 now seems so far away, so much the events have rushed since, that taking stock of it is now part of the historical narrative or the epic. It is this piece of budgetary history, and through it, of France, that I propose to you today. What to remember from 2019? First of all, it was a year when politics, in the noblest sense of the term, took over its rights: the great national debate allowed our fellow citizens to express several latent demands. Far from the usual media whims, these included the need for accessible and quality public services throughout the country – a Montagnard MP like me subscribes to it – without piling under the heavy burden of burdens and taxes. The requirement of equality before the tax has also been raised several times. This is not new, but aggressive tax optimization and, more serious, fraud undermine our social model and consent to tax. We responded to these demands in 2019 as never before: introduction of a tax on digital giants, reduction of income tax for modest households, increased means to fight fraud, all of which we have invested with voluntarism. With regard to fraud, with EUR 12 billion recovered in 2019, no one will dispute that the results are there. Secondly, 2019 was marked by the European election in May. We were able to see the increase in participation, a certain ceiling on populist parties and the new importance, confirmed since then, of the ecological challenge for our citizens. Again, we have provided answers. The populist vote feeds on the feeling that the installed power is powerless in the face of events. But by reviving the economic machine, improving our financial balances and reducing unemployment massively, we have shown that no, against unemployment, we have not tried everything and no, this scourge was not fatal. As for ecology, far from an ecology of the great principles, if not worse, which, under the guise of nature protection, wants to introduce new prohibitions aimed at the most modest, we have initiated wide-ranging transition policies. We have taken over some of SNCF's debt to allow it to invest in the network and, again, the Montagnard MP tells you that this is more than welcome. We have also increased the resources of the Ministry of Environmental Transition by 800 million euros and reformed our tax systems, like ISCED, to simplify them and make them more incentive-oriented. Is that enough? No, and that's why we're going to accelerate. "I have never separated the Republic from the ideas of social justice, without which it is only a word," explained Jean Jaurès at a time when the Republic was not yet the acquis it is today, so long as it can be regarded as a permanent acquis. I make these words about the great challenge of our century: the ecological transition. I will therefore always plead that we never dissociate the ecological issue from the social issue. We will have to be able to define a popular ecology, the only condition for engaging the whole of our country, and not just the city centre of its metropolises, in a resolutely ecological policy. Thirdly, starting on 5 December, we experienced a severe social conflict over pensions. In principle, the abolition of special schemes and the possibility for employees to earn rights from the first hour worked are just measures. The combination of financial equilibrium measures has probably blurred the message, broken trust with reformist unions and led to a loss of readability among citizens. However, while the pursuit of financial balance is a legitimate concern, it is a matter of a societal debate different from that on the principles of reform. I therefore welcome the method presented yesterday by the Prime Minister and fully endorse it. Reform unions seize this tense hand to co-build the 21st century pension system. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] Finally, I do not forget that, at the end of 2019, a coronavirus disease was beginning to spread in the Hubei province of mainland China. We did not know yet, but this disease was going to change the face of the world and, in addition to the many deaths we regret, profoundly upset our economic, ecological and financial balances. But I venture into the meandering of the future story that we will make of the year 2020 and therefore go beyond the scope of the exercise that I wished to carry out before you. I invite you, while waiting, to pass this good law of settlement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u11	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u12	We are addressing the new reading of the 2019 Settlement Act, which describes an economic situation far removed from what we are currently experiencing. The health crisis and its economic counterpart, as well as the resulting severe shock to our public finances, must lead us to exercise even more demanding control over the spending of 2019. This crisis cannot justify us freeing ourselves from the democratic duty of accountability. For this reason, the MODEM and related group sincerely regrets the Senate's rejection of the text, despite the implementation of the budget in accordance with the original finance law and the absence of recourse to advance decrees. I will not go back to all the reasons why the MODEM Group supports the text. It was widely debated at first reading, and the Senate, as a result of the rejection of the text, did not make any amendments. However, we would like to stress once again the importance of the Spring of Evaluation, which was a bit special in this edition, which allowed us, in a critical period, to better predict the post-crisis period. I would also like to welcome the respect for the principle of budgetary sincerity, to which our centrist and democrat political family has always been committed. For the second year in a row, the Government did not make use of the advance decrees. If such decrees were required this year, we hope that next year we will return to this young but essential tradition of not resorting to them. 2019 is the first year of application of the source levy. It must be recognized that this is a success, far from the collapse that some promised us. I am taking a step aside, moving a little away from the settlement law, to point out that the source levy allowed our fellow citizens, at the height of the crisis, to adjust their income tax rates in case of loss of income, which was more than useful in dealing with tax deadlines. Finally, the MODEM Group welcomes the good budget execution – the deficit is EUR 15 billion lower than the original budget law. Thanks to this and to the sincerity of the budget, Parliament can play its full role in the field of public finances: informed authorisation, alert monitoring and demanding evaluation. The draft regulation also shows greater funding for the basic policies of the competence investment plan or action for people in fragile situations, notably through the upgrading of the AAH – allowance for adults with disabilities. These policies are more meaningful in this period of health and economic crisis, where fragility and inequality are exacerbating. We can therefore only rejoice that they were carried out before the beginning of this crisis, since they have served and will continue to serve many of our citizens. Finally, the MODEM Group welcomes the continuation of the effort to restore public finances. By removing the double counting of temporary measures, the government deficit continues to decline in 2019 to 2.1%. Seriousness and budgetary sincerity are of particular value in this period of crisis. Indeed, it was through respect for these principles that we were able to react so quickly and effectively. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] Strictness, seriousness and evaluation must therefore continue to guide us in the preparation and implementation of future financial laws. For all these reasons, the MODEM Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u13	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u14	We are now re-reading the second bill for a fiscal year under your full responsibility. Unsurprisingly, as at first reading, you welcome the budget implementation in 2019. Nevertheless, for the second consecutive year, the budget deficit is on the rise, although it had steadily decreased between 2010 and 2017. I have noted that you often appreciate the results by excluding the expenditure associated with the transformation of the CICE, and certainly to reassure you about the deficit. Yet this one is very real. We must admit it, or at least assume it. The 2019 budget is the one that has continued the drastic decline in assisted jobs, whose number has fallen below 83,000, to the detriment of social cohesion. Nevertheless, the President of the Republic seems to have at last changed his mind about these jobs, if I believe his interview of 14 July. The 2019 budget is the one that reduced, for the first time since 2012, the staff of the Ministry of National Education. The decrease is higher than the requirements of the job scheme – 3,816 full-time equivalents have been removed instead of the planned 1800. Amazing priority than abolishing faculty positions in 2019! The 2019 budget is also the one that has continued to decrease the staff of the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts. With you, it's always less customs, always less cash in the territories. The 2019 budget is the one that highlights the fiasco of the Innovation and Industry Fund that you created in 2018. Let me dwell on this. In its report on the state budget in 2019, the Court of Auditors points out that the fund is strangely "maintained in 2020 when it only financed companies up to 20% of its targets over the period 2018-2019". In addition, "the main projects financed are those already financed from the general budget and the IAP", i.e. it "has not brought any added value compared to the traditional budgetary circuits". Finally, the Court notes that "the announcement on 11 March 2020 of the sine die carry-over of the privatisation of ADP makes it highly unlikely that there would be any substitution of cash for the securities originally provided with the fund as a transitional measure". So you've been about to privatize ADP – Aéroports de Paris –, a highly strategic company, to abound a fund that is useless. Without the referendum of popular initiative, resulting from an initiative of the Socialist parliamentarians, the Court of Auditors' report would have come too late. It is time to put an end to the failure of the Innovation and Industry Fund and to announce the definitive abandonment of the privatization of ADP. The 2019 budget is the one that has not renewed our stock of masks and has reduced the means of Public Health France. Since its funding was transferred to health insurance in 2020, it was the latter which had to grant an exceptional allocation of EUR 4 billion as a matter of urgency on 30 March 2020 to the National Public Health Agency. The 2019 budget is the one that has upgraded the activity premium under the pressure of the movement of yellow vests, movement that forces you because you created it. The State will not be able to replace companies forever for the revalorisation of small wages. Finally, the 2019 budget is the one that has transformed the CICE into a permanent drop in employer social contributions. Today, the annual cost to public finances of all social contribution relief schemes is approaching EUR 60 billion, and you have made the choice not to compensate for social security exemptions. Clearly, this budget is a bad basis for dealing with tomorrow's challenges after the crisis. It announces an investment path that does not allow a calm approach to ecological and energy transformation. There's no question you'll have to change your scale. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will not vote on the 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u15	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u16	We are meeting this morning to re-read the 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill. While this exercise may give rise to interesting discussions on the management of the previous year's budget, there is still a formal exercise in which political conflicts should not find expression. Therefore, allow me to regret the rejection of the text by the Senate at first reading and the failure of the CMP. Having said that, the examination of this bill gives us some interesting elements in the very particular context that we are familiar with. Indeed, in the midst of the review of the third amending finance bill for 2020, going back to the 2019 accounts is rich in lessons. First of all, I once again welcome the efforts made since the beginning of the quinquennium to ensure the smooth management of public accounts. As you said, Minister Delegate: the absence of an advance order in the course of the year is a guarantee of respect for our work as parliamentarians. We therefore count on you to continue this good practice. Secondly, we would like to welcome the stability of the reserve rate, lowered and stabilized to 3 per cent, which reflects an initial budgeting of the programmes more sincere and more in line with the spirit of the LOLF – the Organic Law on Finance Laws. Without preempting the discussion that we will have next week in the debate on the direction of public finances, this bill may be an opportunity to try to answer, as the rapporteur-general has suggested, the following question: were our public finances prepared to suffer a shock like the one we know today? Clearly, we can consider that public financial management should have been more effective, that efforts to reduce the annual deficit and debt should have been stepped up to give our country greater room for manoeuvre. However, we must not neglect the context for the development of the 2019 PLF, in the midst of the social crisis of the yellow vests, or the few reading keys contained in this bill. Thus, the sound management of public finances has led to a significant decrease in compulsory levies. Let us recall the urgency of implementing this policy which we have supported and which is bearing fruit for our fellow citizens. Of course, this budget results in a decrease in net tax revenues from the general government budget, but these are almost $8 billion higher than expected due to a marked improvement in tax collection. All these elements make it possible to analyse the proper management of the 2019 budget. Before concluding, I will focus on two major indicators. First, the government deficit in 2019, in execution, was more than 92 billion, 0.2 points less than expected in the original finance law and 0.1 points less than expected in the amending finance law. Next, 2019 confirms the stabilization of the public debt ratio at 98.1% of GDP, at the same level as in 2018. It was necessary that this ratio not be degraded in 2019, so that we can act in the context we know. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Delegate, I will not go into the details of the state of our public finances at the dawn of the crisis in which we are now plunged. I am sure that we will have heated discussions on this issue next week in the context of the 2021 public finance policy debate, especially since the exceptional situation we are experiencing offers us much less visibility. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In any event, the members of the Action Together Group will vote on the 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u17	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u18	The bill reminds us of the state of France before the crisis – before the finance law for 2020 and above all before the three fiscal collectives debated since March – six months ago, so long ago. Before the shock, the majority welcomed significant economic indicators: strong, albeit modest, economic growth at 1.5%; deficit of less than 3 % ; debt-to-GDP ratio stabilized at just over 98% of GDP. Was the painting idyllic? The reality seems more contrasted. On the contrary, we believe that our country has not addressed the covid tsunami in the best budgetary provisions. Nevertheless, I want to put a success to your credit. The purpose of the Settlement Act is to verify compliance with the implementation of budgetary choices made under the original Finance Act. It should be noted, therefore, that the process of budgetary consolidation continued in 2019. Indeed, for the second time in thirty years, there was no advance decree. The seriousness of budgetary implementation is not an anecdote: it is an indispensable prerequisite for future budgetary deadlines which will otherwise be difficult. In the light of 2020, the situation in 2019 may seem gratifying; However, it is a matter of concern. Indeed, we must include the consideration of this bill as part of the 2018-2022 fiscal programming. It is known that the trajectory provided for a return to the balance of public accounts at the end of the quinquennium. At the end of 2019, we were already far from it, even though the economic situation was, in its time, relatively favourable: firm growth, abnormally high dynamism of compulsory levies and very low interest rates. Despite these conditions, the government deficit was 3%, compared to 2.3% in 2018. It is therefore difficult to see an improvement, even by integrating the CICE and the drop in costs. Above all, without a favourable macroeconomic context, the deficit would have been significantly higher. Expenditure continued to grow at a faster pace than the previous year, increasing by 1.8%, or three times as much as the target of 0.6%. Thus, in 2019, efforts to restore public finances were insufficient. The structural effort to reduce the deficit has not been made and structural deficits remain significantly higher than expected. It does not prevent us from measuring the difficulty of the task. Three years ago, the Government promised to reduce the burden of public spending to the euro area average. In 2019, this gap was 8.2 points and, in its opinion, the High Council for Public Finance notes that the improvement in the structural balance is due to factors that are not the result of government action, such as the reduction in the burden of interest on debt. Another point: the analysis of the general government expenditure accounts shows that their expenditure rose from EUR 1314 billion in 2018 to EUR 1_348.5 billion in 2019, an increase of EUR 34.5 billion. In 2019, most of the deficit comes from central government, the UCPAs. Their share of the deficit increased by 17 billion euros between 2018 and 2019, while local authorities have made efforts – confirming, if necessary, that local elected officials are able to do so when asked to do so. All these figures and results must be put in perspective with the economic and social crisis we are going through today. They show us that France's fiscal situation was already fragile before the outbreak came: the upper phase of the economic cycle has not been used – or not enough to clean up our public finances. In other words, our country was not economically sound enough or well prepared to cope with a crisis of this magnitude. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In their analyses, economists differ on its duration or on the form that the recovery will take: in V, W, L – or even in bird wing as the governor of the Banque de France propheses. But it must be noted that the state of our public finances in 2019 currently deprives us of the necessary room for manoeuvre. The world before us does not give us the means to really face the challenges of the world after. For these reasons, the members of the Libertés et Territoires group will share, as at first reading, between a majority of abstention and votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u19	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u20	Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I find it difficult to understand you. During these six months of health crisis, you have denied yourself so much that I do not expect you to be able to defend the 2019 fiscal year. Indeed, in recent days, you evoke various novelties or, more precisely, you recycle social Gaullism, Keynesianism, ecology with the ardour of forceful leaders, while, since 2017, you have been making the apostles of deregulation. In his general policy statement, Prime Minister Jean Castex announced the return of the police station to the plan. Over the past few weeks, President Macron and his ministers have been relaying with the MEDEF to praise us for a 100 billion recovery that cannot come too soon. Finally, it is the big green wash, with thermal renovation, bike paths, photovoltaic roofs, and so on. It is in the middle of this great turn – chance of the calendar, you will tell me – that you find yourself defending your action in 2019, on the occasion of the closure of this year's accounts. Suddenly, it's off-track. In 2019, you played austerity – but you did not manage to reduce the structural deficit. Indeed, pointed out by a social movement of unprecedented endurance, you had to let go of the ballast. That is why the Senate right did not vote for your text. Mr General, you have tried to show how your budget has enabled us to better cope with the crisis. Let's look at this from another perspective: in 2019, you abolished some 4000 positions in national education, twice as many as announced in the original finance law. As I said at first reading, I repeat here: this policy is the introduction of the most absolute orthodoxy of the budget, contrary to the measures you are taking. Expenditure on payroll does not allow adjustment to the business cycle. It cannot be quickly reoriented according to the political needs of the moment. It creates with pensions an implicit debt that scares our creditors. In terms of accounting, the public service seemed to you to be a bad investment. So you planed. Now you have a beautiful game to decorate the white coats of your medals...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u21	It's better than dressing them in plastic bags!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u22	...as you did the day before yesterday in Place de la Concorde. You forgot that during your quinquennium, you'll have taken more from the public hospital than you'll have given him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u23	Eight billion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u24	Mrs Rubin is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u25	The 2019 exercise you have the audacity to defend today reflects a $1 billion savings on our health care system. If there was a little honesty in your new arrangements, you would act of contrition to national representation – not on form, as the President did, but on substance. You would apologize for presenting these sad accounts to us from any point of view, especially for public services and social rights, which we saw as being so important in the context of a brutal and unpredictable shock. But everyone knows you don't believe in your own language elements. President Macron said it himself the day before yesterday, during his televised interview: we stay on course, only will change the method. In turn, therefore, there will not be, with this Government, or at 360 degrees: a turn on oneself, to satisfy everyone. Your measures to increase purchasing power are to lower contributions: the French will pay the price at retirement age, or pay it now, if they find themselves unemployed. Your tax cuts, concentrated on large companies, will be offset by the most unfair tax: VAT. [["Congratulation! Imparable! » and applause on the benches of the FI group]] Consistency will dictate our vote. In the same way that we have rejected the original 2019 finance bill, the group of La France insoumise will vote against this bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u26	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u27	The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group welcomes again this bill to regulate the budget and approve the 2019 accounts despite some reservations, drawing your attention to some particular points. We stress the control of the government deficit since it did not exceed the 3% of GDP threshold, even by including the transformation of the CICE into a permanent relief of social contributions, which doubles the cost to public finances in 2019. The general government balance for 2019, of -3% of GDP, is better than the forecast of the initial finance bill presented to Parliament last fall, with a deficit of 3.1%. The strategy for better resource collection has proved to be paying off as net tax revenues have increased by more than €7.8 billion compared to the original finance law and by more than €2.1 billion compared to the amending finance law. Non-tax revenues have also increased. The anti-fraud law has been an important step forward in bringing revenue back, as has the new digital services tax, whose return of €277 million is promising. This money was redistributed to active citizens, thanks in particular to emergency measures to deal with the crisis that shook our country at the end of 2018: 9.5 billion euros were used usefully to recreate solidarity while stimulating our economy. Unfortunately, in recent months, the chain of amending finance bills has been raising questions, as revenue remains to be found. The necessary stimulus measures cannot be financed by a debt that will have to be left to our young people. On the other hand, we regret that these stimulus measures do not yet give sufficient support to the ecological transition, despite all the fine speeches. In its report, the Court of Auditors calls for the creation of a reporting obligation for each new tax expenditure, the strengthening of the evaluation of the effectiveness of these measures, the review and completion of performance indicators – with EUR 100 billion of niches, this is not a minor issue! While we welcome the efforts made in this direction by recasting the benchmark of performance indicators from the 2016 financial year to make it more relevant, much progress remains to be made. Tax expenditure monitoring and analysis of its effectiveness should be facilitated, particularly at a time when it is crucial to make good use of public money by investing in new, greener and more inclusive growth. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will again vote in favour of this text, but insists: you must take into account the points of vigilance listed above.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u28	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u29	The Senate rejected this bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts, in part because of the lack of ambition that characterized both the original 2019 finance bill and its implementation. Although successively adopted amending budgets for 2020 make some of the figures set out in this 2019 Budget Settlement Bill derisory, we must pass it, so that we can start discussions on the 2021 Finance Bill at the beginning of the year. It is important to note this, and to recognize the merit of the Government: since the beginning of the legislature, the accounts have been sincere, particularly with regard to expenditure, since their implementation has been largely in line with the budget initially voted. The absence of an advance decree in the course of the year attests to this mastery. However, the Court of Auditors considers, in the light of these public finance results for 2019, that the recovery is "uncompleted". This is easy to understand: France's public deficit increased in 2019 to 3 points of GDP, compared to 2.3 points of GDP in 2018. Of course, this increase is mainly due to the temporary cost of the CICE's shift to expense relief, which amounts to 0.9 points of GDP. At the same time, during this fiscal year, the Government benefited from three factors that could have enabled it to adjust the public accounts more strongly: a growth of 1.5 per cent of GDP; an abnormally marked dynamism of compulsory levies; a decrease in the debt burden, notably due to low interest rates. Efforts to restore public finances are therefore insufficient; the absence of an improvement in the structural balance in 2019 means that no effort has been made to reduce public expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u31	As for the state budget deficit for 2019, it is for the second consecutive year on the rise, increasing by 16.7 billion euros compared to 2018. It is noted that the net balance of the State's assets and liabilities for 2019 decreased by 74 billion euros compared to last year. Public debt peaks at € 2380 billion. Moreover, we are in the process of winning at European level, Italy being the only other country that has not reduced its debt level since the 2008 financial crisis. The debt gap with Germany now stands at 40 points of GDP, while the level of public debt in France and Germany was substantially the same 12 years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u32	The decadence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u33	We are paying the cost of a policy of always delaying efforts. In this respect, this quinquennium is no exception, since it was intended to postpone them at the end of the legislature. However, the health crisis has destroyed the plans to control public finances, after three years of growth that have not been put to good use. The President of the Republic rightly said, at the beginning of his term of office, that "debt is tax squared". I hope that this will guide the executive from now on systematically, when the debt is projected to grow, even though recovery and investment are vital in the current context – I think we all agree here that we need massive reinvestment in our economy. In conclusion, although, unfortunately, the state's financial situation continued to deteriorate in 2019, the implementation of the 2019 budget is in line with that of 2018: it is sincere and reflects an improvement in management. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The IDU and Independent Group believes that the examination of this text should be an opportunity to assess these two aspects. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill even though we share the critical opinions of other groups on these benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u34	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u35	After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, we are called upon to take a decision on the draft law for the settlement of the budget and the approval of the accounts for 2019. If this is a formal, technical exercise, it is nevertheless possible to extract from it a political dimension which is essential and which takes its full meaning in the present period. By placing ourselves on this ground, we are forced to reject this text, as at first reading. The reason is simple: we believe that fiscal policy for the past two years, particularly in 2019, has been detrimental to our country, preventing it from addressing the current health crisis in good conditions. For the last two and a half years, you have been pressurizing the state, reducing the scope of its action with, I would like to remind you again, the reduction of the standard of manageable expenditure. All the public services have passed through: school, hospital, employment centre. However, it is on these essential public services that we have relied on during the crisis that we have been through, and which is probably not over. You have, through your long-term efforts, notably through the 2019 budget, degraded our country's capacity to cope with the current health and economic crisis. You now confess half-worded some mistakes. Since you discover that you cannot deprive the hospital of 1 billion euros every year without degrading it, you will try to make up for it – even if I doubt that this catch-up session is enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u36	What a lucidity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u37	You had done the same with the economic emergency measures taken after the yellow vest crisis, agreeing to lower the rate of the general social contribution – CSG – of the small retirees, two years after having increased it. Finally, your action in the face of the crisis is limited to correcting the mistakes previously made by you. So, after you have removed the assisted jobs, or at least reduced them to the congruent portion, you restore them – at least if we understand correctly. And it's not the worst! Indeed, you have still not become aware of many mistakes – mistakes, I should say. Even if the yellow vests already demanded tax justice and the restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth – the ISF – you did nothing. Even today, as we know that the crisis will require new and colossal means in the coming months, you are refusing to involve the most affluent. The cost to the State of abolishing the ISF, currently EUR 6 billion, will amount to 9 or 10 billion at the end of the year. At the same time, we learn that the number of millionaires in France has increased by 62000 and that the country now has 41 billionaires, four times more than after the 2008 crisis. At the other end of the spectrum, there has been a large increase in the number of poor people since that majority was in power. Yet the policy of supply, which consists of giving unconditionally, without compensation, will continue. You will maintain the general relief, which already amounts to 52 billion euros, and will continue the reduction in corporate tax, which has been planned for several years, by adding the reduction in so-called production taxes. To households, on the other hand, you offer new efforts and more work, all in wage moderation. As for the dividends, you are content to make the wish that the companies put the soft pedal on their payment. I'm not sure it'll work. Your policy, over and over again, is not balanced. In the first two budgets of the legislature and the initial budget for 2020, you have exploited all the fiscal space to the benefit of the wealthy and businesses, to the detriment of households and public services. With you, you should always reduce taxes, always reduce contributions. I don't understand that reasoning. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] This budget for 2019, we fought hard in 2018. Today, in 2020, at the end of a health crisis and at the beginning of a particularly violent economic crisis, you will agree, we would like to recall our opposition to the harmful fiscal policy that led us into the wall. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote against this bill, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u38	The general discussion is closed. The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u39	First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for this general discussion. There is a double blindness, which may explain the Senate's rejection of the bill. The first is that of those who blame us for leading a policy of rigour, while we kept our promises and commitments in 2019, in terms of double classes, lower taxes on the first two deciles of the income scale, increased purchasing power thanks to the increase in the activity premium and the financing of the ecological transition, beyond all the forecasts of the programming laws. We keep our promises for the most fragile and investments. There is nothing here that is not a matter of rigour or austerity. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Beyond the finance law, I would like to point out that, in the area of the social security financing law, this majority and this government, before the crisis and the Secur de la santé, brought the national target of health insurance expenditure – ONDAM – to its highest average level in three years and to its highest level in ten years. Mrs Rubin, by explaining to us that we would have done everything wrong and that you would have done everything better, you remind me of Charles Péguy's phrase: "Kantism has pure hands, but it has no hands". There is one of those who are in the incantation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u40	Having your hands clean is important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u41	The other blindness is to blame us for not keeping the accounts, whereas, since the beginning of the quinquennium, we have kept the deficit below 3% of GDP and stabilized the debt, before being hit, like all countries, by the crisis of the covid-19. We will continue this path of debt control and responsibility for the future. Two points, highlighted by the majority and its partners, were ignored by the oppositions, demonstrating that they represent positive elements of the 2019 review. I would like to thank all those who have insisted, first of all, on budgetary sincerity: lack of a decree in advance, respect for parliamentary authorisations and adjustment of the budget forecasts as closely as possible to developments, so that parliamentarians know exactly, at the time of their vote, the amount of appropriations and the use that will be made of them. The second point is confidence, which the majority testifies to the Government with the adoption of the bill of regulations and the preparation of the next steps. We trust all those who implement public policies: government colleagues, program managers and government officials. When we lower the reserve rate and draw up an advance order, we ensure that those responsible for the deployment of policies on the ground are aware, at the beginning of the year, of the means at their disposal, and are able to engage them in the most serene, autonomous and free manner possible. It is this discipline that we will continue to embrace. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Fiscal sensitivity, accountability and trust: these were the three pillars of 2019, those of 2020 and those of 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u42	I now call the clauses of the bill. They are not the subject of any amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u43	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u44	I put to the vote the whole of the Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u45	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to offer holiday vouchers to health and medical and social workers in recognition of their action during the covid epidemic (19) (No. 3177).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u46	Mr Christophe Blanchet, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u47	The text before you today was agreed by the Joint Joint Committee, which met on 2 July. The compromise reached by the National Assembly and the Senate is fully satisfactory, as it reconciles the approaches of two assemblies. First of all, it preserves the mechanism adopted by the National Assembly, namely the possibility given to employees and public officials to offer, at their request and with the agreement of their employer, rest days which will be monetized in the form of holiday vouchers, in order to thank the personnel of the health and medical-social sectors for their mobilization during the epidemic of covid-19. Companies will also be able to abound the donations of their employees, since these donations are limited to employees whose income does not exceed three SMICs. The National Agency for Holiday Checks – ANCV – will also be able to collect financial donations from any natural or legal person. This law will therefore be addressed not only to employees or public officials, but to the general population as a whole. The text of the CMP also preserves the contributions of the Senate. It will be possible, in particular for employees who will not be able to give days of rest, to donate a working day, following the model of the day of solidarity on Pentecost Monday, by allowing their employer to levy part of their wages for the benefit of caregivers. In addition, the mechanism has been clarified on several points by the Senate. Staff will have to have worked between March 12 and May 10, that is, during the confinement period, to benefit from the holiday vouchers. The timetable for the implementation of the scheme has been set: the holiday vouchers will have to be distributed by 31 December next.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u48	Maxime Minot agreed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u49	The Senate had set the deadline for making a donation by August 31. This date appeared premature to deploy the device and communicate about its existence. The Joint Joint Committee therefore postponed it until 31 October, leaving two months to distribute the holiday vouchers, taking into account the staff of the health and medical-social structures. In order to implement the mechanism quickly, the CMP decided to refer its implementation procedures to a simple decree rather than to a decree in the Council of State, which would take longer to issue. The text of the Joint Joint Committee also provides that the acquisition of holiday vouchers under this scheme will be exempt from income tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u50	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u51	This was initially a request from our colleague Agnès Firmin Le Bodo. The Government had expressed before the Assembly its intention to guarantee such an exemption, which was now included in the text. Finally, the success of the scheme will naturally depend on the mobilization of the Government, but also of the ANCV and the companies, which will have to communicate a great deal with the employees. Parliament will, of course, remain vigilant and will also have its role to play. That is why the CMP has added a paragraph under which the Government will have to submit a report to Parliament by March 31. This will enable parliamentarians to ensure the proper application of the scheme and trace the distribution of holiday vouchers. The proposed text is the result of the contributions of the two assemblies, which, despite their differences, managed to agree to allow as many people as possible to participate in the momentum of national solidarity towards our caregivers. I would like to remind you once again that this text is not intended to replace solidarity mechanisms with taxation or to meet the expectations of revalorisation of the wages of health-care workers. Some of these expectations have found a strong response in the Ségur de la santé, which has led to a historical improvement in the salaries of caregivers. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Government, and in particular Muriel Pénicaud, for his support of this parliamentary initiative from the outset.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u52	So effective she's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u53	I thank all the colleagues who have joined the process, including Ms.Frédérique Puissat, rapporteur of the text in the Senate, with whom I had constructive discussions, but also the administrator of the National Assembly who followed the text and my collaborators. Thank you, Madam Minister responsible for integration, for the energy you will have to deploy to implement this mechanism very quickly and make it operational. In fact, we will all have to use energy to promote this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u54	You could have thanked Maxime Minot! How narrow-minded!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u55	I'll take care to thank him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u56	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u57	I am very pleased to be with you this morning for this reading of the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee, which participates in the recognition of the action of the actors in the medical and social sector during the terrible epidemic of covid -19. Happy, because on this particularly sensitive subject, MPs and senators agreed to find a compromise. This bill rightly enshrines the solidarity of our fellow citizens with healthcare providers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u58	Luckily this text comes from the Republic on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u59	...that were at the forefront of the unprecedented and terrible health crisis we experienced. The tribute given to them at the ceremonies of 14 July is a strong sign, desired by the President of the Republic, to show them the recognition of the nation. I wish to reiterate my appreciation for the efforts of these women and men, who have worked tirelessly to save lives and protect the most vulnerable. I have a thought for those who have been struck by the disease, and for those who have lost a loved one. As a local elected representative, chairman of a departmental council, I know the commitment of our fellow citizens to solidarity schemes. In this context, the crisis of the Covid-19 has only strengthened the common momentum of solidarity in our country. Thus, some of our fellow citizens have had the idea of expressing their gratitude to the actors of the "first line" by offering them rest days. Thanks to your daily listening work, ladies and gentlemen, you have been the relays...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u60	Especially Maxime Minot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u61	...of this beautiful idea, original, innovative and solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u62	Who came from the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u63	The former Minister of Labour, Muriel Pénicaud, whom I would also like, Mr rapporteur, to welcome the action, had supported your work and allowed its examination in Parliament. This text is part of the new solidarity that the President of the Republic had called for during the confinement. The parliamentary shuttle has enriched the text. As originally foreseen in the text adopted in the National Assembly, the mechanism consists in giving up days of rest acquired and not taken with a view to their monetization. In order to supplement and improve it, the Senate adopted the principle of a compensation donation mechanism for one or more working days. I welcome the fact that this compromise leads to more options for employees and employers who wish to show solidarity. By relying on the tool of holiday vouchers, this act of generosity will contribute to the revival of the tourism sector, which, particularly affected by the consequences of the health crisis, needs it so much. I am well aware, however, that this bill should not be a substitute for public policies aimed at addressing the structural difficulties of the various sectors, whether health, medico-social or tourism. With regard to the first, we can only welcome the majority agreement reached between the trade unions and the Government within the framework of the Segur de la santé. It responds to the request made by the President of the Republic that a massive investment and career development plan be drawn up after the crisis. It will therefore be EUR 8.1 billion that will benefit 1.8 million professionals. With regard to tourism, on 14 May last, the Prime Minister announced the launch of an interdepartmental support plan of an exceptional size, to the tune of 18 billion euros, to save this economic sector, which has been so heavily affected. In conclusion, I wish to pay tribute to the work...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u64	Maxime Minot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u65	... the rapporteur and the Members, who are part of this logic of progress and national solidarity for our caregivers and for the benefit of our country's tourism operators. In the face of this crisis, we held on,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u66	It's not over!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u67	Remember the shortage of masks in March! Don't have a short memory!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u68	Good thing there was the Segur of Health!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... and I am convinced that this trans-party measure, which is the result of a request from our fellow citizens, will further strengthen the bonds of solidarity that are the foundation of our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u70	In the general debate, Mr Christophe Naegelen spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u71	The IDU and independent group can only share the intention of this text, while remaining reserved as to its scope. It is a question of responding to a demand for solidarity and recognition of the French towards the care workers. If it expressed itself during confinement, it was a long time ago, indeed, that we should have acted in their favour. In any event, we must be able to welcome the steps that are being taken in the right direction, and we recognize that this is a first step, while hoping that it will be followed by many others. Another step forward was the 8 billion that had been decided to devote to the revalorisation of wages. Our fellow citizens have come together every night to applaud the dedication and courage of caregivers. With this bill, it will be possible to realize this testimony of gratitude in a less symbolic way. I also welcome the success of the CMP in reconciling the drafting proposals of the National Assembly with those of the Senate. The employee will now be permitted to donate part of his days of rest or part of his remuneration for days worked. This donation will also be eligible for home help services. This important measure is the result of an amendment defended by Thierry Benoit, Member of our group. Considering the work they did and the major role they played during the crisis, this is only justice. It is, moreover, relatively unfair to condition the payment of a covid bonus to the goodwill of the departments: it is to pave the way for inequalities based on the resources of the communities. We need to be much more grateful to home helpers, who do a great job every day. It is also regrettable that the bill stops on the way. What about firefighters, police officers, food shop cashiers or roadmen, that is to say, all the other essential services without which our country would have simply ceased to function during the crisis? On the other hand, one can legitimately have doubts about the effectiveness of the scheme because of the deadlines that are set: the bill provides that these donations will be allowed until 31 October only; We are already in mid-July, which leaves only a very short period of time for companies to seize the subject, even though the employees have already gone on holiday – for those who can – and are worried about their future, because the signals are not on the right spot for the start-up. The real challenge for caregivers is the long-term improvements that have been made to their situation. In this regard, the bill must not hide the great task ahead of us, that of overhauling the health system. The Government had therefore announced an increase of $8 billion in order to upgrade jobs and improve working conditions. This is a step forward, and it is to be welcomed, especially after a decade of declining hospital resources. It was beneficial to finally take into account the expectations of caregivers. We will also be vigilant about the implementation of these announcements in the next Social Security Financing Bill. The Segur of the hospital must be only a first brick. It is time to take the turn of prevention for good, to move from a curative system to a preventive system. I would also like to draw the Government's attention to the situation of health professionals with a diploma obtained in a non-member State of the European Union, PADHUE, who are practising in our hospitals or in EHPADs without being allowed to do so. They have played a key role in dealing with the covid crisis and have been literally holding our hospitals for years. They must be fully integrated into our care system, as must their counterparts who have full authorization. Our group will support this bill, whose generous intention we understand is for those who care for us. We hope that this will only be a first step and that the end of the quinquennium will be marked by real progress for caregivers and, more generally, for our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u72	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u73	Against the epidemic of covid -19, all the personnel involved in the proper functioning of our health and medical-social system, whether caregivers or not, whether in the hospital, in the city, in the EHPADs or in private clinics, have mobilized, sometimes even at the cost of their own lives. These men and women whom we applaud on the window and balcony every night during the confinement period have shown exemplary dedication and self-denial and deserve our great gratitude. While he does not doubt the good feelings behind this bill, the Libertés et territoires group is still as sceptical about the proposed scheme. In addition to the fact that we believe that this text is far from meeting the expectations of staff, we have serious doubts about the application of the leave donation mechanism. It will be necessary to wait for the decree to determine the modalities of conversion. Our group is all the more sceptical as the Senate has introduced a new system which has finally been adopted by the Joint Joint Committee: so an employee can also donate part of his remuneration for one or more working days. This proposal may be more effective, but we cannot help but think of all the people and families who are affected by the social and economic crisis. We do not yet see all the effects, but redundancies, long-term unemployment and loss of income will seriously reduce the purchasing power of our citizens. In such a context, how can we encourage them to donate part of their remuneration? As we said at first reading, and as we repeat today, our group will not oppose the bill, as the principle it defines is based on volunteering, but it is probably not what healthcare workers in the health and medico-social sector expect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u74	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u75	I fear that they see this scheme as a clumsy charity, even though their demands are elsewhere. There is also the risk of causing immense frustration for all those who would like to give when they do not have the means to do so, for the potential beneficiaries who, perhaps many, will not see the fruit of this solidarity if the donations are not sufficient, but also for those who, despite their immense mobilization during the crisis, have been excluded from the scheme. Indeed, we forget other people who would deserve just as much recognition. Of course, home helpers have been integrated into the scheme, but other employees who are equally mobilized to keep our company functioning, far beyond the management of the health crisis, will not be able to benefit from it. Finally, as the Ségur de la santé dialogues are coming to an end, we recall that our priority must be to find solutions to save and sustain our health system, improve hospital careers, invest massively and change the way it funds. To meet this challenge, it will be a question of solidarity, but of organized national solidarity, that of social security, in which the State does not disengage, but on the contrary guarantees that everyone contributes according to his means, rather than according to his good will. That is the solidarity we must encourage and on which, as parliamentarians, we have a role to play. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Today, as we leave the state of health emergency and our country barely manages to find a semblance of ordinary life, I cannot help but look at the situation in our neighbours and listen to the scientific council's warnings about the possibility of a new wave in the autumn. I can only worry about the healthcare staff, who have been tried for so long. Will these personnel, who are not sufficiently numerous, not sufficiently recognized and valued in their work, have been able to enjoy rest, be better protected, have the physical and mental strength to confront a new wave? It is to these questions that we must provide answers to support our caregivers in their mission. Everything else, the holiday vouchers, the medals are very derisory in the face of these issues. The Libertés et Territoires Group will therefore abstain from this text once again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u76	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u77	This bill has the gift of cumulating the wrong points: hypocrisy, injustice and inefficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u78	It looks like them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u79	It is hypocritical, in fact, because our colleague from the Republican Group, Maxime Minot, had tabled the same one last March.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u80	Thank you for calling him back, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u82	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u83	Why didn't you put it on the agenda? You first ignored it by sectarianism, and ended up defending the same proposal today. At least at first reading, did you point out some major points in common with Mr Minot's proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u84	It's an understatement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u85	Today, you have not even done so: this is the "after world", this beautiful world!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u86	It's act IV!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u87	Your manners really do not honor our assembly. On Mr Minot's proposal, and on your own, I would have voted against it, because I hear a very unpleasant little music in the background; But since Mr.Minot had submitted his bill to the 577 members, I had at least been able to call him and explain to him why I was opposed to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u89	But this text is also hypocritical, because it misrepresents its real intentions. For the past three years, you have despised the health care staff. Thus, 12 billion euros have been amputated to the health budget since the beginning of the quinquennium, and you are trying to make us believe that the fate of the caregivers is worrying you! It should be noted, however, that despite the improvement in the salaries of caregivers – finally and a little – within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, France remains one of the least generous countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – OECD – in terms of the remuneration of caregivers. But I'm gonna stop there, we're not here to talk about Segur. In addition to being hypocritical, this bill is unfair, because it excludes many categories of staff from the benefit of holiday vouchers. What about garbagemen, territorial officials, cashiers, factors, bakers, self-service store employees and so many others, who, too, were there to serve us during confinement? Why couldn't they benefit from these holiday vouchers? Worse, we're gonna ask them to give each other a day off too! Your proposal for a law is also unfair because it is based on a principle of charity instead of establishing a genuine system of solidarity. Taking the French with feelings, making them feel guilty, asking them to give up days off, playing on the goodwill of each other to put in place an uncertain gift scheme with blurred contours, it may be your philosophy, but it is not ours. France believes in a just and equitable solidarity, which is organized to guarantee a true redistribution. Giving gifts to caregivers with the money of others, without the state paying a penny, may be your philosophy, but it is not ours. I would remind you that there is a great scheme called social security. The 1945 Ordinance provides for the development of a large national aid organization. That's what you want to do, isn't it? So what are you waiting for to re-establish social security, instead of destroying it from the beginning of your mandate with ever-increasing contribution exemptions? Let me also quote again from Internet users' comments on your bill. For Alain, "offer his days off to the nursing staff, it's not solidarity, it's charity and the hospital doesn't care about charity"; for Anne-Charlotte, it is "out of question, these people deserve better than alms"; For Pascal, the elected representatives of the majority "have the gift to always postpone the effort on others". Hear these people! To use the words of a Member of Parliament from your ranks: "When you buy generosity at a good price on the backs of companies, it's still a little easy. This is not on the backs of companies, but on the backs of employees – but you are not at a close contradiction. More than ever, the restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth – a reasonable tax, which could be directed towards health – is an emergency. I invite you to read the gallery of eighty-three millionaires who ask to pay a tax: it would be a shame to do without it! Your bill is ineffective, because first of all caregivers need additional colleagues, no check-ups, a fortiori if a second wave is to arrive. Inefficient, it is also because you rely on the unrealistic assumption that 20% of employees will give up days off for caregivers. The workers in our country are tired, they also need to rest. Have you observed that since the beginning of the definity, applause for caregivers has ceased? It is not because people no longer have any appreciation for them and their commitment, but because everyone, with deconfinity, has returned to their work. Unfortunately, this very ambitious target of 20% is likely to cause many disappointments in healthcare staff if there are not enough holiday vouchers for everyone. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] We will therefore vote against this hypocritical, unjust and ineffective bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u90	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u91	The health crisis caused by the covid -19 epidemic scared us and worried us, but it also made us aware of the role of caregivers and those who mobilize every day for our health and well-being. Very quickly, the French sought to show their gratitude to these professionals. Without always finding the words, they applauded them at twenty o'clock each evening; restaurateurs cooked to enhance their meals; children have designed to beautify their working environment; Florists have coloured the rest rooms: so many other initiatives have been conceived to thank those who have worked hard to care for and care for the most fragile. "Mots lack emotions," said Victor Hugo. So, failing to say their gratitude, the French thanked the caregivers who had mobilized, and continue to do so during this health crisis. In front of pain, in front of self-denial, in front of the professional conscience that made caregivers work with dedication, efficiency and humanity, the French were grateful and moved; Many wished to thank them. The text that is submitted to us, to which we can associate Maxime Minot,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u92	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u93	That's intellectual honesty!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u94	... contributes to this spirit of generosity by allowing employees and public officials who have RTT days and unused days of rest to donate them to health professionals by turning them into holiday vouchers, or, more simply, to make a concrete donation of part of their remuneration corresponding to one or more working days. In addition, everyone will be able to make a financial donation to the ANCV. An enterprise agreement may also provide for an abundance of the employer. Employees with unused rest days and the possibility of monetizing them will also be able to give the corresponding amounts to the ANCV. An employee may therefore give, either part of his salary, in particular if he does not have RTT days or if he wishes to keep them for him, or days of rest which he has been able to accumulate – in a time-saving account for example – in agreement with his employer. It is a matter of offering a few days of vacation, not only to rest – caregivers all need it – but also to take time and repair souls who have seen a lot of pain. The proposed changes to the first version include the extension of the deadline for making a donation from August 31 to October 31, 2020, which we believe is reasonable. It is also proposed to clarify that the acquisition of holiday vouchers under this scheme is exempt from income tax, as I strongly wished at first reading. So I'm glad. The Act also directs the ANCV to allocate the amounts collected between health, medical, social and home care institutions and services on a list drawn up by ministerial decree, in proportion to their wage bill. It states that the personnel concerned must have worked during the confinement period of the population, between 12 March and 10 May 2020, and have received compensation less than three times the SMIC. Like almost all my colleagues, I regret that the list of professionals who can benefit from this scheme is not wider.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u95	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u96	Of course, we welcome this initiative, which calls for the generosity of our fellow citizens towards those who care for us and take care of our elders on a daily basis, those personnel who have given themselves tirelessly, energetically and dedicatedly, not as heroes – a term they refute, moreover – but as committed, voluntary, passionate and effective professionals. The text is therefore an opportunity for those of our fellow citizens who want to make the choice of thanking caregivers on the front line during the epidemic of covid-19, to allow them to breathe and take a vacation, so that to the commitment of each one responds to the generosity of the others. It is part of the continuity of other parliamentary initiatives, such as the one defended by my colleague Paul Christophe on the donation of leave days to family caregivers. The possibility, which already existed, of donating part of the days of rest to care for a seriously ill child or a close person in loss of autonomy or with disabilities will therefore be extended, in order to offer holiday vouchers to staff in the health and medical and social sectors who worked during the epidemic. It is a gesture, a modest mark to express our gratitude and admiration for the unprecedented mobilization of these personnel. Of course, it is not a question of paying the debt to them. The measures to be taken to improve and transform the working conditions of health-care workers in hospitals, care centres, EHPADs or other medical and social institutions will have to be of a completely different magnitude: it is the whole stake of Ségur de la santé, which has already led to concrete measures, particularly in the area of remuneration, but which will still have to lead to a deeper reform, to better organize the hospital, to better involve city medicine and hospital medicine, to encourage research, to reflect on our supply of medicines, to carry out better prevention or to treat medical deserts. But first and foremost, it will have to pay close attention to caregivers and to all those involved in our health. The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of this text to express the gratitude and recognition of the nation to these professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u97	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u98	So you're back with this bill that calls on employees to give their days of rest – and now their days of work – to pay out holiday vouchers to caregivers. So you're forcing us to tell you again that, for us, she's next to the plate. First of all, it is because the demands of hospital staff are not to receive holiday vouchers, let alone to take rest days from other employees. They and they would already like to be able to take their own and, failing that, to be paid for; It is then because the applause of confinement consisted first of a social recognition, of which it was clear that it had been alien for three years to all the social security financing plans and to all the emergency plans put together for the hospital. Of two things one: either you haven't seen all this and you just want to organize a kind of year-end gift that you don't finance properly; either you have seen it well and this is an attempt to misappropriate solidarity. In both cases, you are aware that there is a problem in the treatment of hospital staff. Here again, there are two possibilities: either you seek to be forgiven at little cost, but the process is doomed to failure; You either think that by helping them go on vacation, you also help them to come back, because you know how much we need them and them. In this case, listen to them and do not find ideas that are gadgets and that do not content anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u99	In the majority, they like gadgets!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u100	At this point, I could just ask myself two questions: what makes sense in this way of wanting to fill in the cashier of the holiday vouchers when, during the crisis, the Government siphoned him to finance the aid to the companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u102	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u103	This may not be intentional, but is there not a form of obscenity, after the so weak announcements of the Segur of Health with regard to needs and justice, to ask the employees to pay a form of supplement taken on their rest or on their wages, which the Prime Minister has forgotten in his general policy speech?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u104	He forgot a lot of things...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u105	With this type of solution, you risk making everyone angry: the caregivers, who expect the state to assume its responsibilities, and the employees, who do not intend to be blamed for a situation that results from neoliberal policies, in which we are locked up like the Minotaur in the maze of Dédale. You surf on healthy emotions and don't attack the causes. This proposal, which is similar to a Trojan horse, continues to deploy a social conception based on the individualization of social relations. This proposal will resonate as a provocation. It takes place in a puzzle where the President of the Republic himself legitimizes offensives leading to a reduction in wages and encourages an increase in working time. It comes after this trauma of a pension reform adopted at first reading in popular distrust and by recourse to article 49, paragraph 3, of the Constitution. It is part of a landscape where multinationals are invited to measure shareholder punction. Even millionaires tell you they have extra money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u106	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u107	But you prefer to ask employees to go there from their days of rest and their wages. After this crisis, do you not think that the rest days were imposed by the circumstances on some of the employees, and that the other party needs them to recover? But then, you will tell us, can we not allow an impetus of solidarity, generosity? Employees don't need you to be in solidarity, and this moral injunction to generosity in a world of tenfold inequality, where one boasts the merits of the first cordate in comparison with those who would be supposedly nothing, you can understand that it annoys, it annoys, it ulcers, it revolts. In fact, you ask them to stand in solidarity because your policy is not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u108	It's an interesting formula.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u109	The political project of Macronie, we have now experienced it hard. Every word you use to describe it loses its value. How many times have you been surprised to use one word for another, to use superlatives to mask weakness, to pretend to do, to say without saying everything, not to do everything about what you said? [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] What will remain of the intentions with regard to the recognition of all trades, to trade through the care trades? Those who exercise them have given their know-how, their work, their courage, their commitment; they have assumed their duties, honoring the Republic. There will probably be women and men to pour out their obole, to express through this channel their deep solidarity. To them and to them is our respect. But to you who have the controls to really answer the stakes, we can no longer make credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u110	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u111	Today, they could still have made Gilles Le Gendre talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u112	Three months of crisis. Three months of fierce fight against the virus, day and night. Yes, since the beginning of the covid -19 epidemic, our caregivers have been absolutely exemplary. By saying "the caregivers", I am thinking of all the French who have dedicated themselves to others: the caregivers, those of the medical-social sector and the professionals of the services of help and accompaniment at home – all are at the service of the sick and our seniors, in EHPAD or at home. To these thousands of French people mobilized on the front line, who have helped us so much, we say thank you again. But a thank you is not enough. We owe them more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u113	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u114	[["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] That is why I welcome the bill tabled by Christophe Blanchet, which others have thought of...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u115	Ah! So there are not only dishonest people in The Republic on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u116	Of course, Mr. Minot! Each of us is aware that this bill responds to a request from many citizens, who, through their letters and e-mails, have expressed to us their desire to participate in the momentum of national solidarity and their regret that they do not always know in what form.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u118	The main provision of the text is intended to allow any employee, by way of derogation, at his or her request and in agreement with the employer, to waive without consideration days of rest acquired and not taken, with a view to monetizing them. This will finance holiday vouchers, for the benefit of public officials and employees working in public and private facilities or establishments in the health and medical-social sectors. Of course, there is no question that this initiative is a substitute for the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé in terms of the remuneration of our caregivers and the re-engineering of our health care system. The purpose of the text is different. It consists in the creation of a specific tool, allowing each health staff to be rewarded by a fraction of national solidarity. Much more than a boost, it is an additional measure of purchasing power for thousands of our compatriots, which, at the edge of the summer holidays, is not negligible. From its first reading, national representation has greatly enriched it. We can welcome the fact that the parliamentary dialogue has borne fruit on a subject that must bring us together. I would like to recall the main changes we have made, which are now part of the very essence of the text. We offered employers the opportunity to abound the days paid by the employees. With regard to donors, the scope of the text had been extended to include public officials who wished to donate part of their leave. Similarly, the text generalizes to any person, whether natural or legal, the possibility of making a financial donation, which includes parliamentarians in particular – let us not forget! – self-employed workers and pensioners, who by definition cannot give any day off. Useful clarification: no tax advantage is attached to this altruistic gift. A specific account to collect donations from non-employees will be created ex nihilo within the ANCV to transform them into holiday vouchers. I would like to remind you that they will benefit anyone who has provided assistance, from close to or from a distance, in our care facilities or at home. To this end, the scope of the beneficiaries has been extended to cover staff in the home support and accompaniment services. In addition to public officials and employees, non-employees in the health and medical-social sectors, both private and public, will also be eligible. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot believe that national solidarity, the characteristic value of our Republic, is reserved only for State agents. All health workers, both in the public and private sectors, must benefit from the generosity of their compatriots. Students in medical training, especially interns, have not been forgotten, they have not counted their hours in hospital services; they will also benefit from this tool. Furthermore, in the interests of social justice and equity, we have introduced a restriction on the scheme to health workers who earn less than three times the SMIC. Of course, the money mobilized to finance it will not be the subject of any commission on the part of the ANCV. We parliamentarians will take care of this; Such transparency is essential. Finally, the Joint Joint Committee, meeting on 2 July, reached an agreement allowing the employee to choose the way in which he wishes to express his solidarity – by giving up days of rest or by giving up a fraction of his remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u119	Thank you for closing, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u120	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In short, this text responds to the request of our fellow citizens. We, the legislators, have been the facilitators. Let us not forget too quickly the emotion that we felt on 14 July last, during the tribute of the nation to our caregivers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u121	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u122	They were the honour of the nation in an unprecedented period of health crisis: of course, they are the caregivers, to whom I would like to pay tribute – by involving the members of my group – for their courage, and for some, unfortunately, for their sacrifice. With the sometimes derisory means of protection available to them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u123	Plastic bags for overblouses!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u124	... in the extreme conditions they have been confronted with, and despite contradictory speeches at the highest state summit, they have waged the war against an invisible enemy, who is always likely to destroy us. The text that is again presented to us today, plagiarizing, with indecent political opportunism, the one that I proposed several weeks ago,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u125	Bravo! That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u126	... aims to give the French who work the opportunity to express all their gratitude to the caregivers, whose dedication forces our admiration,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u128	...by means of an anonymous and free gift of rest days, inspired by the provisions in force for employees of the same company for the benefit of a caring relative or a relative of a sick child. This mechanism has a particular meaning for the Member whom I am, elected in the Oise, the first department hit by the epidemic. I will not go back to the shameful method of knowingly plagiarizing the idea of an opposition member for the sake of merit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u129	This happens often!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u130	This method belongs to you, rapporteur. Obviously, you and I do not have the same conception of ethics and ethics, but to everyone their conscience!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u131	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u132	That's not true! You're lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u133	This text will certainly not make it possible to calm that of the members of the majority, nor to exempt them from any responsibility. For it is indeed you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, who, budget after budget, refuse in the hospital all that he lacks, and who have been cruelly lacking in his staff on the endless days that they spent saving lives and accompanying patients as best they could.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u134	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u135	For it is the policy that you support that was the cause of nine months of strikes and unprecedented resignations in the university hospital centres – CHU – in Rennes, Lyon, Caen, Marseille, Pau, Brest and Orléans, as well as in the hospitals of Corbeil-Essonnes, Paris-Saclay, Saint-Louis and Pitié-Salpêtrière!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u136	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u137	And it's going on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u138	For it is the governments that come from your ranks that are satisfied with a few boosts of salary – all in all, all in all, as long as our caregivers are among the least well paid in Europe – through a Segur of health that has not solved anything on the substance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u139	$7.5 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u140	What progress has been made in the organization of the health system? None. Have we talked about the transformation of the professions, that of doctor in the first place? No. Has any consideration been given to introducing a new form of responsibility, based more on trust than on compliance with the standard and regulation? Neither! Have the procedures been simplified? No. Have we brought the hospital into the 21st century? Still not! What about service closures in local hospitals, such as those in Clermont-de-l'Oise and Creil? Not a word! Of course, the aim of this bill is not to solve everything, especially since the challenge is immense. Moreover, the Prime Minister did not at all outline the beginning of a beginning of a response to the general policy statement he made yesterday. However, even within its narrow perimeter, the proposed arrangement is inconclusive, because it is too restrictive, as I had the opportunity to remind you during the debates. Indeed, if the choice of using the holiday voucher mechanism is consistent with the desire to support the tourism sector, it may be completely in line with the aspirations of healthcare workers. What if they wanted to pay for the milkings of their house or help their children? That is why the Senate has amended the bill in order to allow any employee wishing to show solidarity with the caregivers to pay them a donation in an amount corresponding to the remuneration of one or more working days. In practice, the corresponding amounts will be deducted by the employer from the employee's net remuneration and paid to the ANCV. In addition, the opportunity to express their solidarity through work will be open to all employees, and not limited to those who have unused days of rest. Moreover, the possibility for everyone to abound a fund dedicated by financial donations has been retained – rightly – in order to allow the participation of non-employees. Finally, the Senate has specified, not without relevance, that only health personnel who have worked during the confinement period, between March 12 and May 10, 2020, will be eligible for the scheme. The CMP, therefore, concluded, resulted in a compromise text, combining two provisions that are not incompatible, despite Senators' reluctance to ensure the effectiveness of the original mechanism. I welcome the amendment to the text to clarify that the acquisition of such holiday vouchers is exempt from income tax. Similarly, the provision for the Government to submit a report to Parliament by 31 March seems to me to be useful in assessing the implementation of the scheme, tracing the distribution of holiday vouchers and determining whether the text has achieved its objective. Finally, as others have rightly pointed out before me, the implementation of the scheme will not be simple. The modalities of implementation are referred to a simple decree and not to a decree issued by the Council of State, and I have a special thought for accountants and human resources officials who will have to implement it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC and FI groups]] There have been 30,120 deaths since the outbreak. What would have been his record without the generosity of the heart of the caregivers? At a time when the possibility of a second wave is being considered, it is important to remember that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u141	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u142	Our assembly is being asked today to give its green light to the adoption of a bill by our colleague Christophe Blanchet, offering employees the opportunity to offer healthcare workers a sum equivalent to one or more days' leave in the form of holiday vouchers. This text was born out of a willingness to be generous towards the health care staff, whose commitment to fighting covid-19 was unusual. It has never been intended to replace the improvement of recognition for these trades. On this point, we can welcome the agreements reached at the end of the Segur de la santé: if they do not exhaust the subject, they participate significantly in this indispensable recognition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u143	It's the organization you need to look at!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u144	By this bill, co-signatory MPs simply wanted to give the nursing staff an extra rest by offering them, in the form of holiday vouchers, the opportunity to take more of their holidays, whether they decide to grant themselves an additional visit, exit, restaurant or take one or more additional days of vacation. They deserve it. In addition to applause for them, we can think, individually, that, for what they have done for others and for what they would have done for each of us, we owe it to them. The choice to solicit the generosity of the French through holiday vouchers also offers the advantage of contributing, even modestly, to the preservation of tourism, which is a strategic sector of our economy. However, in order to give the bill a concrete translation, the contributions of the Senate have proved indispensable. In the original text, if the employee gave up one or more days of paid leave, all the mechanics of the scheme were based on the company, which had to administer it by following rather complex procedures. In the text adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, employees can – thanks to a provision proposed by the Senate – donate leave days, but also abound a holiday check account through a monetary payment corresponding to one or more days' pay, as well as through free payments. In addition, the employer may make additional payments. This system therefore opens up the possibilities for contributions more widely. Similarly, the date originally proposed for the scheme as at 31 August was extended until the end of October 2020, in order to allow time for collection. Finally, the work done in the Senate helped to clarify the scope of the beneficiaries and the intermediation to be put in place so that the holiday vouchers could reach the people concerned in a fair manner. Of course, we will have to ensure that sufficient communication is made so that this text does not become an empty shell. Similarly, it will be important to measure the real impact of this mechanism, which we hope will benefit as many people as possible. This bill illustrates the usefulness of the parliamentary initiative, from whatever bench it comes. It brings a small stone to the building of solidarity, which must be consolidated and secured by its supervisor, the State. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] The MODEM Group therefore hopes that this bill will be adopted and implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u145	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u146	During the consideration of this bill, a form of malaise came before the members of the Socialist and related group. I have no doubt of the good intentions of the authors of this text, in particular of its rapporteur, and, like all of you, perceive the ardent desire of many of our fellow citizens to express their gratitude to the caregivers. However, I see it as an unsubstantiated proposal, and to say a little out of the question; I also see this as an impasse in the work to renew the social contract which the circumstances oblige us to do. If this proposal is irrelevant, it is because, everyone knows, the crisis of the public hospital precedes that of the covid-19. It is in spite of these old difficulties – I say it without hindrance – and deep that the caregivers, who had been on strike for some of them for 18 months, fought under conditions and with courage that force admiration. A chief of service who was said to be admired by the French in the face of these authentic acts of heroism, had for any answer: "The hospital does not need heroes, but means". If we measure the modesty of this response, it introduces or reintroduces without delay the subject on which our reflections and proposals should focus: the means of the hospital, to care well, to work well and to live well. Of course, everyone hopes that the Ségur de la santé will provide answers that match the situation. But before that, there was the law on the financing of social security: we had then presented an emergency plan for the hospital, which it is regrettable that it was not the subject of any consideration on the part of the Government, which considered that it had done its best. When your proposal was announced, the health care staff themselves felt the discomfort that I describe. Some had harsh words, refusing charity like medals. Moreover, the question is not that of the leave of caregivers, since, as you yourself indicate in your report, Mr rapporteur, they will not be able to take their own leave due to lack of time and replacements. The real question is the number of staff, the number of caregivers per bed and per patient; the number of such beds; investment, and not only in major construction sites such as the Grand Paris Nord Hospital or the Nantes University Hospital. You will, of course, also have to answer structural questions about the place of the hospital in its environment, about the management of health policies in the territories, about governance, about pricing. We will have to ask the question of the means which the French and French, through their contributions, are ready to grant to the public hospital. For this reason, incentives to charity, however generous, should be preferred to social policies for all, financed by national solidarity. Yes, the French and French who can do so will probably give days off, but I am convinced that they would prefer a remuneration of the caregivers to the level of the social value they have witnessed, as they would prefer to hypothetical donations a contribution of the richest to the national effort. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] As it stands, the account is not there, and we cannot support a proposal that could look like – even if you deny it, and I gladly believe in your sincerity – to a form of flight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u147	The general discussion is closed. The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u148	I just want to thank all Members for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u149	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u150	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u151	I also thank the Government – I am well aware, Madam Deputy Minister, of the difficult work that awaits you and your services, and of the short time you will have to do it – the services of the Assembly – in particular the administrator, very valuable as always, who has supported me – and all the deputies who participated in this work, accompanied this idea because they heard good in their territory, and thus allowed this bill to succeed. Thank you to all my colleagues who have preferred to build an effective device rather than fuel sterile polemics. Today it is our responsibility to lift prohibitions: this is what this bill does, and it is now up to every citizen to appropriate the provisions. The joint responsibility of Parliament and the Government is now to make this mechanism work, including by making it known. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must be exemplary. The text allows each of us to give, so let's give!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-16-E1014.u152	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion, in further reading, of the draft organic law and the draft law on social debt and autonomy; Discussion on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposed law to protect victims of domestic violence. The meeting is adjourned.
