ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u1	[[Applause on all benches]] Today we learned of the death of an emergency physician with Covid-19. This is terrible news that affects us all; I wish, on behalf of the national representative, to pay tribute to all the caregivers who protect our lives at the risk of theirs, and to whom we owe so much, in this time of unprecedented health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u2	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the emergency bill to deal with the Covid -19 epidemic (No. 2766). I would remind you that, in the context of the current crisis, the Conference of Presidents has laid down rules derogating from the organisation of our sittings. Firstly, the eight groups are represented, in addition to their chairman or representative, by only two Members. The vote on the whole text will be by show of hands, with each chairman or his/her representative holding the votes of his/her entire group, but Members have the opportunity to make known to their group or to the service of the sitting that they wish to vote differently. Non-registrants also have the opportunity to communicate to the service of the meeting their voting position on the whole. I would also remind you that speakers speak from their bench and not from the rostrum. I also invite them not to put their hands on the microphone. It will be cleaned after each use, but each speaker is asked to use a different microphone. Of course, we must respect the barrier measures that we all know. In particular, the discharges of the Chamber will be staggered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u3	Mrs Marie Guévenoux, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u4	We are at the final stage in the process of discussing an exceptional bill, dictated by exceptional circumstances, the legislative process of which has been allowed by an exceptional commitment on the part of all. The emergency bill to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic was deliberated in Council of Ministers on Wednesday afternoon. The Senate adopted it on Friday in the early morning. Our Law Commission examined it until Friday night and the National Assembly voted that night. The Joint Joint Committee reached a compromise at 2.30 p.m.; the Senate validated it at 5:30 p.m.; We will vote and, if everything goes well, the President of the Republic will be able to promulgate the law this evening. That is what is called a genuine emergency procedure. We can already be proud to have, together, taken up the challenge of speed in our fight against the epidemic that threatens the French people. But we have a second reason to rejoice: the conditions in which we find ourselves have not brought down the strength of our parliamentary democracy. We could have sacrificed our raison d'être even to the ambition of speed. The Senate, on Thursday, had done an excellent job under the leadership of rapporteur Philippe Bas. We could have abdicated our prerogatives as legislators and endorsed the bill that was being passed on to us. We could have closed the door to any developments in order to achieve with a lesser effort an adoption later this weekend. On the contrary, the National Assembly has fully ensured its constitutional mission; it has exercised its right of amendment; it has included developments and improvements in the text; the Commission heard all the votes cast during the debate. I quickly went through the proceedings in the Law Committee and in the public sitting to see what I was thinking: the bill that we passed incorporated amendments tabled by all the political groups in the Assembly and even by non-attached Members. This is a beautiful symbol of the national unity that is being built in the face of health peril. Therefore, it is important to stress that I am not just presenting the text of the majority, but the text of the entire National Assembly; Thank you all, really. I come to the Joint Joint Committee, on which I shall concentrate little. The same spirit of openness that the Assembly ruled in the Senate. The chairman of the Joint Joint Committee, whom I greet, and I quickly gained the certainty that the will was to reach a consensus: everyone was ready for reciprocal concessions. Our discussions focused on two key points. In the health component of the bill, which we have symbolically transformed into title I in light of the challenges it brings, we have succeeded in reaching consensus on the safeguard clause. The Senate considered that too much room for manoeuvre was left to the Prime Minister, who was authorized to limit three fundamental freedoms: freedom of movement, freedom of assembly and freedom to undertake. On the part of the National Assembly, we considered that a limited list might block the action of the Government in the event that a measure we had not thought of would be necessary. In the Joint Joint Committee, we have restricted the safeguard clause by limiting the Prime Minister's power of limitation to the sole freedom to undertake, because it is difficult at this stage to imagine the restrictions that might be required in the light of the changing health situation. In return, we have extended the Prime Minister's powers of closure and movement restrictions. Furthermore, the Joint Joint Committee has specified that all measures taken under the state of health emergency may be subject to suspension or freedom of action; This is an important guarantee for the citizen. In the electoral section, we chose to appease the concerns of the municipal elected representatives by writing black and white that the elections regularly acquired in the first round of 15 March would be definitively so. We also explained the scenario that the epidemic would prevent a second round before the summer, indicating that the mandate of the municipal councils should then be extended beyond the summer in the communes where a second round was required. This would require a new law; We should even have an organic law, because we should therefore postpone the senatorial elections to a later date. Of course, this provision has neither the purpose nor the effect of freezing the electoral body of senators: the Senate will be renewed once the municipal councils have been renewed. The Joint Joint Committee also decided to maintain the appointment of the mayors elected this weekend despite the confinement instructions, simply by differentiating their assumption of office to take place on the same date as in the communes where the election was postponed in order to comply with these instructions. It is a solution of consensus and common sense which we owe the suggestion to our colleague Charles de Courson. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR and LT groups]] This is the compromise adopted in the Joint Joint Committee and which the Senate has already approved. I invite you to do the same. We will then have provided the Government with all the weapons necessary to conduct the fight. All of us, on every bench, want you to make the best use of it, and that this virus quickly joins the list of diseases whose science has liberated humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u5	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u6	First of all, I would like to welcome the exceptional mobilization of the National Assembly, its elected representatives, its officials and parliamentary collaborators, who have ensured that the democratic debate takes place fully in these difficult times. You will also allow me to thank the government departments that contributed to the drafting of the bill, before participating in the drafting of the ordinances. This debate, which has mobilized all of us, was held at a time when very strict health rules – you referred to them, Mr President – were enacted and applied in your assembly. We have collectively responded with discipline, in the same way that our fellow citizens apply the Government's health regulations on a daily basis. It was our duty to be exemplary. I would also like to stress the quality of the dialogue that has taken place between the two assemblies and with the Government with a view to achieving satisfactory consideration of no less than three bills between Thursday and today. It is that no rapid legislative review can be serious without consensus among stakeholders on the urgency of action and the responses to be provided. Undeniably, there have been and still are differences; It is normal in a democracy: it proves that democracy has not been put in brackets. We have overcome them; It is the purpose of the compromise that is submitted to you, and it is also the function of the parliamentary debate. I would like to thank the Speaker of the National Assembly very sincerely for his essential role in organizing the debates, for his availability and for his listening. I would also like to thank all the group presidents and the Members involved, who have acted in a spirit of responsibility. This created the conditions of trust; I know you were very concerned about that, Mr. President. Many citizens might be surprised that Parliament needed four days to pass a so-called emergency law to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic. We must take on this debate, which we have all called for, for several reasons. First, we remain convinced that the French are waiting for a clear and strong response on what the state is going to do in the coming weeks. It was one of the virtues of the debate to bring it. Secondly, the discussion demonstrated our commitment to transparency and its need to address the country's health, social and economic situation. Thirdly, the consensus on exceptional measures promotes their understanding, acceptance and implementation by our fellow citizens. Our debates have shown the usefulness of representative democracy: to mention the observations, the questions, the concerns of our compatriots on the ground, to which we wanted to provide answers. In this regard, I particularly welcome the essential role of your colleagues who are absent from the Chamber because of the health rules that we have imposed on ourselves, and which you have nevertheless relayed. I thank them for their daily engagement in their territory, where they play their full role with our fellow citizens, representing them, meeting their expectations, meeting their needs, reassuring them, sometimes too. It's a valuable job. I would like to refer more specifically to some of the emblematic measures in the text. Title II, entitled "Health emergency", empowers the Government and its representatives to take strong regulatory measures to curb the spread of Covid-19, drawing on, inter alia, the Act of 3 April 1955. Such exceptional provisions as the control of the movement of persons and vehicles, the keeping of persons at home, the temporary blocking of prices or requisitions will obviously not be implemented without control if the circumstances require them to be implemented. Parliament will have to authorize by law the extension of the state of health emergency. On several occasions, the decision to resort to a state of emergency will have to be informed by scientific data, made public – we discussed it in particular yesterday. Both the National Assembly and the Senate will be able to request further information as part of the monitoring and evaluation of the measures. Indeed, it is valuable to rely on science to take on our own political responsibilities and to continue parliamentary oversight of the Government's action, even in this exceptional period. It is also useful to the Government. In addition to more coercive measures aimed at multi-recidivists who clearly contribute to the spread of the virus by their irresponsible behaviour, common sense and human realities have been taken, including the abandonment of the day of waiting for sick leave, the time of the epidemic, in the private and public sectors, or the extension of the winter truce until 31 May 2020. Title III gives us an arsenal that allows us to deal with an economic situation worsened by the health crisis. Approximately forty empowerments are planned. It is a radical choice, which the Government assumes. We must be lucid: we do not know all the measures that will have to be taken in the light of developments in the situation. But we are now planning to massively support the cash flow of companies and to provide direct and indirect support to them in order to preserve the essentials. Labour law will also be adapted temporarily to ensure flexibility and to limit breaches of employment contracts. These interim measures will have as their sole objective the continuation of the work and the satisfaction of the basic needs of the nation. Other provisions, which may be supplemented by an order, are such as to adapt daily procedures. I am thinking of the functioning of the bodies of the communities, that of the co-ownership trustees, the judicial procedures; In these areas, too, the parliamentary debate has taken on its full meaning, reminding the Government of a particular dimension of community life that justifies a particular measure. Finally, Title III bis endorses the postponement of the second round of municipal elections and the installation of municipal councillors elected in the first round, as well as their consequences. I will not go back to that, except to welcome the fact that an agreement between the two assemblies has been reached on these points. The bill gives us significant means to respond to the problems posed by the spread of Covid-19. It will not be enough to meet all the challenges ahead and will probably have to be complemented by other provisions. If we are to rejoice at the work that has been done over the past four days, the crisis that we are experiencing requires humility, which contributes to transparency and accountability. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to those who are on the front lines of the emergency – in this regard, I would like to associate the Government with the tribute you paid, Mr. President, to the member of the medical staff who has just disappeared. They show a great professionalism, a great deal of dedication and an ability to mobilize that makes us all admire each other. I welcome the unwavering commitment of police officers, gendarmes, firefighters who ensure scrupulous respect for health measures and are always at the side of our fellow citizens in the face of difficulties. I also greet all those who, in support of caregivers and the service of the French, ensure daily the continuity of the economic and social life of the country – basically the implementation of a health war economy. These are essential functions, visible or less visible, in which farmers, artisans, road drivers, transporters, those who maintain telephone, electrical or water networks, those who collect household waste, traders, cashiers... I would also like to pay tribute to the local elected officials and their teams who do not spare their efforts to solve a multitude of problems: they are ingenuity of every moment and constantly adapt. I would also like to pay tribute to all officials, both national and local, who also ensure the continuity of the public service. In essence, here I greet all the links in a precious chain of human solidarity in the difficult times that we are going through. All count, all bring their stone to the building, including by small daily gestures: here to break the loneliness of a neighbour or an isolated relative, there to render a necessary service and, finally, to make live the beautiful word of fraternity. More than ever, we must pay tribute to them, because we owe them a great deal, and we will still owe them a great deal. All do their part and have decisive action in the moments we are going through. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] Beyond our differences, you, too, have made yours, in my name, I believe in the only interest that is worth the moment: the general interest. Thank you for all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u7	I call Mrs Braun-Pivet, chairman of the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u8	In the words of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, "Every free state where the great crises have not been planned is at every storm in danger of perishing. We can be pleased to have inherited from our history the necessary answers to ensure the continuity of the state, the republican order and, today, public health. The health war evoked by the President of the Republic, we are determined to carry it out with all the strength of the Republic, for France is the Republic chevillated with the body and heart of each of the French; democracy is always the solution in our country. By having come together throughout the last few days, by having legislating in full transparency, by having retained the strength of the law, that is to say, we have remained faithful. In this crisis, we parliamentarians had a twofold responsibility: to act to give the Government the means for a powerful and rapid action, and also to remain united. The President of the Republic has called on the French to rise to the height of the moment: I sincerely believe that our assemblies have done so. As I said in my speech in the general discussion, we only legislate when we have a good discussion. That, I believe, is what we did in committee, then in the Chamber, until very late in the night. We have exchanged, we have agreed, we have succeeded in creating consensus points. Today, in the Senate, we have experienced a historic joint committee, marked from the beginning to the end by the concern of each of the deputies and senators, whatever their political group, to find the best of solutions, the best of drafting and the best possible consensus, all in the interests of the French and in the general interest; by the concern, also, to act as quickly and effectively as possible, while at the same time showing the utmost legal rigour: we should not confuse speed and haste, nor should we overwhelm the legislative work entrusted to us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We must now approve the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee. I hope that we will be unanimous in doing so because, I repeat, the country needs us to be united in order to give the Government the full strength of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u9	In accordance with our practice of reading the conclusions of a joint committee, statements in the general discussion will be worth explaining the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u10	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u11	As we have told you, we will not vote for this text: after having deliberated on it, we, the seventeen Members of the Group of the European People's Party, think in conscience that this is our duty. Indeed, we do not believe that the measures contained therein are commensurate with the situation as we analyse it. Before summarising our reasons, I would like to say once again what our principle of action is at this moment. We are an opposition, an alternative proposal force, and we will remain so under all circumstances. In a democracy, the opposition contributes to the general interest by its signs of solidarity, but also by its criticisms, which allow us to never forget the fundamental premise of democracy and reason: in any situation, another path is possible. While the duty and the right of the majority were of course to take the necessary decisions and to demand their application, the right and duty of an opposition are to propose an alternative solution, i.e. to present itself as a remedy at the disposal of the country. It is this role that we are taking on at this moment, with our contingency plan, our amendments and our interventions in the House. While the pandemic is a biological fact, it is above all a social phenomenon that results from the conditions under which humanity has so far produced, exchanged and defined its priorities. If we are here today, it is because social selfishness, market freedom and free and undistorted competition have dominated without hindrance, weakened and destroyed almost all our collective defences without counterpart. It is with this that we must break up for good, not only to create a new world tomorrow, but also to be able to get us out of business today. In other words, the world after, on which many now project their hopes, must begin now with other means of producing and exchanging, and another hierarchy of norms. The general interest, common salvation, mutual aid, ecological planning: this is what must now and without delay dominate. In our view, in the situation of common peril, these principles must not be limited. In our view, the best artisans are those who, through their work, make the country live at every moment. Forced confinement is necessary and indispensable and, in solidarity with the instructions given by the health authorities and the Government, I invite everyone to respect it, even if it is not without serious psychological cost. But it is not the indispensable and unsurpassable horizon of collective action for the future. France has all the material, moral and even spiritual means to control the situation and achieve its health objectives. To do this, the social front must be provided without delay with the necessary number of masks, respirators, tests – indispensable to know who is sick and must be confined, who is not and must be able to make himself useful. To this end, the 100,000 employees of the 1,000 textile companies must be requisitioned to produce as a priority the hundreds of millions of masks we need; the thousands of workstations of mechanical companies must be requisitioned to produce the thousands of respirators we need; closed or liquidated companies, whose production directly affects the means we need, must be nationalised and reopened without delay: the entire production system can and must be mobilised, day and night, to stop the disaster before the epidemic peaks. In all the undertakings concerned, the employees themselves must decide on the best sanitary conditions for production, be equipped for their protection and, through contact with the companies supplying them, organise the continuity of the supply chains they need. Everyone must be guaranteed that his or her income, housing and basic supplies will be insured, and therefore he or she can and must unconditionally consent to confinement. A tax on the great fortunes and the income of capital must immediately contribute to the financing of the measures of common salvation. France must mobilize not only for it, but also to participate in solidarity with the peoples who would call for aid, in particular and as a matter of priority those of the French-speaking area. Your plan does not provide for the involvement of all components of the country, nor does it provide for the planning of the necessary resources. It draws no lesson from the selfishness of the nations that make up the European Union, which, in disregard of the values it proclaims, has opposed any common sense. Your decisions will be implemented and, even if we do not believe in them, we sincerely wish you success. But if they fail, the country must know that it has an alternative proposal, another coherence on our benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u12	That sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u13	Irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u14	The Government and the health authorities know that they can count on us for all the help they may need; The same applies to the country. Neither now nor ever do we forget that our lives are our works. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As Prometheus has allowed, we do not fight other enemies than mistakes and abuses of a way of life. The time has come to change radically: this is the revolution that must be accomplished by the human civilization of our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u15	Archi-nul!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u16	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u17	Considering that it was our role to move on to action, to rapid decision-making and to defend solidarity, it was in a spirit of collective responsibility – by debating, promoting convictions, trying to chart a path – that the GDR Group members have sat in recent days. Since the opportunity is given to me, I mean all my support and solidarity to those who face the virus, to the families of those who succumbed to it, to the family of the doctor who died today. I would of course like to commend the courage of the health workers, who are facing this epidemic with far too little means and weakened by political choices to remove beds and posts. I want to pay tribute to the dedication of all the others, mobilized in the service of collective protection, who behind a supermarket box, who behind a garbage dumpster, who behind a wheel to deliver meals to the elders or to provide the marauds – and that, in many cases, without protection. I also mean that in addition to the hands that applaud at 8:00 p.m. in the evening, words are added. Words about evils, which require more resources for the hospital, masks for staff. The health emergency requires a plan that is much larger than what was passed in the context of the amending finance bill. We will therefore continue to ask for much more resources for the hospital: every day we see how decisive this is; Unfortunately, in the coming days, we will see how vital this is. We will continue to ask for company requisitions, because we consider that we are still too far from the account. In our view, the text of the Joint Committee does not dispel the concerns we have expressed in recent days. First of all, concern about the democratic derogation it provides, which is much more important than in the state of emergency. On the contrary, we believe that in order to encourage the gathering of all and to move forward together, democracy and cooperation must be our course of action. We proposed that, beyond Parliament, a follow-up committee should involve scientists, representatives of the world of work, social and economic actors. We believe that gathering, unity, trust are not decreed: they build themselves, they win. To grant full powers to the executive is to take the risk of lack of transparency and cooperation. The greatest risk of all is that suspicion will be born and anger will roar. We believe that social and political democracy is essential for the people's adherence not only to the measures taken, but also to the behaviour to be adopted, in particular confinement. Also concerned about so-called "social" measures, which are not part of the state of emergency. I am thinking of Article 7, which provides for important derogations from labour law, which could be extended, since these measures are not limited in time; I am thinking of the length of work, the paid leave, the Sunday work, which they concern. The French are showing great solidarity at the moment: they are making a lot of efforts, including those who remain confined, even if those who are on the front line are doing even more. But these measures are worrying us, because they give the impression that nothing of the software is being called into question, that they are still the same people who are going to pay for the crisis. However, certain provisions could have denied this impression and inspired confidence, for example the re-establishment of the solidarity tax on wealth, the ISF, which would not even have given rise to controversy; You refused it. While the Italian Government has announced the cessation of all non-essential production activities, Mrs Pénicaud is proud to be able to force the employees of the BTP to work. Our political choices can save lives: what we should decide urgently is to stop these non-essential activities and ensure the income of employees. What we do today says something about today's world, but also about tomorrow's world. Solidarity, the choice to protect the planet, but especially human lives, before your economic software, would mean saying something immediately and for the "after". [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In the light of these concerns confirmed by the CMP, by these democratic derogations, by these choices which lead to the payment of the crisis always the same, we will vote with full responsibility and conviction against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u18	Mr Stanislas Guerini has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u19	Tonight, the time is not for great speeches, nor for me to know what political recourse: the time is at work, humble, effective, concrete, daily. That is what the text that we are going to adopt allows. It empowers the Government. This evening, the French can say that parliamentarians, both members of Parliament and senators, have lived up to the tragic situation in our country. They were able to agree on the essentials; They have been able to work in the spirit of concord, of national unity, which must prevail at the moment. The Chair of the Law Committee highlighted the attention that MPs and senators have shown at the CMP, where a sense of responsibility has prevailed, in order, once again, to empower the Government. The heart of this text is the state of health emergency, which we have created. It is based on three essential principles. The first is to give the Government a broad scope of action; That is why we have forged this new legal tool, because the situation is itself new, because our texts did not provide for it. This virus attacks all aspects of our society, it has consequences for all. That is why we needed to enable the Government, through this text, to act in all areas. The second principle is to limit in time this legal tool that we have built. It's a principle of responsibility. The time will come when we will reflect on a lasting way to incorporate this state of health emergency into our legislation: it will be at the time of the reconstruction of the country, where we will have to ask ourselves collectively about the philosophical depths of our society. Today, we must act urgently. The third principle, which we have discussed at length, is that of control: the control exercised by Parliament, but also the fact that all the decisions that the Government will take will be based on science, on health authorities; the fact that their opinions will be made public; the possibility for Parliament to interrogate the Government at any time, either to prolong this state of emergency or to request any kind of information. We must be able to ensure that we acted responsibly. The text that we are going to adopt is not a mistake. We chose, during its examination, to relegate electoral matters to the last position; We did the right thing. We sought consensus that any electoral operation should be simply frozen. It was our responsibility to do so. The country does not have the lead in municipal elections: we must not have the lead in municipal elections. We will resume the electoral process later. I would like to thank those who have enabled us to work urgently and to give this text of confidence to the Government. Madam Chair of the Law Committee, thank you for leading us so well. Madam rapporteur, thank you for having carried them out in conditions that were out of the ordinary, for having done an extraordinary job yourself, with the support of the administrators of the National Assembly and of all those who allow our Assembly to sit even though it is, as we know, a home of the epidemic. Thank you, too, for acting responsibly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR and MODEM groups. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to have a word for our fellow citizens, starting with those who are sick, the families of the victims, already too many. Yesterday, 562 of our fellow citizens had lost their lives: so many bereaved families to whom I address my thoughts, as well as those who keep our country standing, those who save lives, those who are on the front line, on the front line, who work, sometimes invisible. I am thinking of cashiers and cashiers in supermarkets: they allow our country to continue to eat, to live. I am thinking of all those who show responsibility by remaining confined to their homes, some in small apartments, in difficult neighbourhoods: we must thank them for respecting this rule. Stay home; That's what will save us lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u20	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u21	There are serious moments, solemn moments, when – I'm going to confide in you – you feel the spirit in peace. This may seem unusual in such a troubled time. It is an inner peace: being at peace with oneself is sometimes difficult. It is also a matter of being at peace with those around you who you respect. I say here, humbly: each of us can be at peace, for he is trying at this moment, in these exceptional times, that we are living, in such short time, to give the best of himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u22	All right, sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u23	[[Applause on all benches]] We have worked under the eyes of our fellow citizens, under the watchful, sometimes uncompromising, eyes of these confined families, of these caregivers who work tirelessly, of these cashiers, heatmen, artisans, transporters, of these cohorts still present on the bridge. They'll be able to judge us, no doubt. In any case, we tried to be worthy of their trust. All of us, without exception, have measured the weight of our functions; All of us are now measuring the special, singular task of representing our absent colleagues, whom I salute. In a way, they are well present today with us. In doing so, I said this night, it was the nation that we represented. Together, here, beyond our differences and sensitivities, we are all well, the Republic, the Republic standing, the democracy that stands and does not waver. I would like to commend everyone's sense of responsibility, the spirit of national unity that prevailed and that unites us. With Raphaël Schellenberger, around Damien Abad, whom I also greet, the Republican Group has tried to be a force of proposal. We have had the constant concern to work for a collective work in the general interest, driven by a spirit of resistance, not to our colleagues, but to fatality, disease and what is now happening in the country. Finally, I would like to welcome the presidency of the National Assembly, its services, our collaborators and those of the Assembly, all those who, in the shadows, have enabled us to bring this work to a successful conclusion. I greet Yaël Braun-Pivet, Gilles Le Gendre and other colleagues, such as Stanislas Guerini, without forgetting you, Minister. Yesterday we had successful interventions and session breaks, which demonstrate your negotiating skills. Some will not find themselves there; Some will find that we have been too long. What! Three days to jostle whole sections of our law, it would be too long! What we are going to adopt earlier is not nothing: forty-three authorizations, which will translate into some twenty ordinances; the upheavals of our economic, social, electoral, fiscal, penal, health, I pass and the best; In addition to a number of constitutional principles, at the top of our hierarchy of norms, freedom to go and come, freedom of assembly, freedom to undertake, which are also shaken by uncertain times. In order to give exceptional powers to the State, it is essential that national representation take its time. It is also the greatness of bicameralism, of the parliamentary shuttle, to which we pay tribute. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, MODEM and LT groups]] Since powers are exceptional, remedies should not be the exception. There was a matter of real debate: not all are extinguished. But the Government now has all the cards in hand. He's got to take it. It is imperative that you use these ways and means, which we hope will help to curb the crisis and prepare us for better days. I'm not naive: there will be reviews, evaluations; But now is not the time for controversy. Let us remain united in this spirit of resistance. Let's resist! There are wars that we have been able to wage; There are victories that we expect; and in any case, what unites us grows!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u24	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u25	I said it in committee, called back in session, and I say it again here: in the face of this crisis, we are all responsible. By reaching an agreement within such tight deadlines, Parliament has shown responsibility. We can congratulate ourselves on this, of course, for our democracy, but above all for the French. In four days, we have reviewed two texts that will help us overcome the epidemic and lay the legal foundation for a better understanding of other similar disasters. Together, we have been able to act for today and for tomorrow. Despite logistical constraints, Parliament had been able to play its full role, especially since the health crisis had forced the Government to take measures to protect the population, which were infringing on freedom. This morning, we reached an agreement with our colleagues in this chamber and we are satisfied with it. The organization of the text, first of all, reflects our current priority for everyone: to manage the health emergency. The safeguard clause has been improved, as you pointed out, Madam rapporteur. With regard to the democratic aspect, we offer the guarantee to the candidates elected in 30,000 communes that their results last Sunday will remain acquired. We welcome the extension of the deadline for the submission of the lists to June in order to suspend the election campaign: our group was eager to do so. The Government now has comprehensive and legally secure means of action at its disposal. The state of health emergency, created on the basis of the common state of emergency, is undoubtedly the tool we needed to move forward effectively and to protect the French. The economic and social measures adopted will make it possible to adapt the country's economy to the situation and to protect all actors, from very small enterprises – TPE – to large companies, from employees to entrepreneurs, not to mention traders, artisans and the self-employed. At the political and institutional level, we have been able to overcome our differences in order to extend the functions of the current teams. It was absolutely necessary, because our elected representatives are, like many other French, in the front line. They are mobilized to fight the epidemic, and we trust them to make the best progress during this crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] I will address my final words to the sick, to the victims, to their families, to the caregivers, to all those who fight and ensure the good progress of our country, to say thank you. They remind me of Gabriel Chevallier's words in the novel The Fear: "The hero's gesture is a paroxysm and we do not know the causes of it. At the top of fear, we see men becoming brave, of terrifying bravery because we know it is desperate. To these brave men, I say thank you for everything, and to others, I ask, to support them, to stay at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u26	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u27	On behalf of the Socialist and related group, my first thoughts naturally go to bereaved families, to those who suffer. Today, many people are fighting the disease in our country. I also have a thought for our colleagues, for your fellow ministers, for the agents of this house and for our collaborators. I can testify like all of you, since Thursday, that he also expresses a great sense of responsibility. On each of these benches, we show useful intelligence. Our work for four days has been important, useful and necessary; It grows up in Parliament, and brings a very nice demonstration of what we are able to do when we know how to get together on the essentials, to discuss, to debate, to build. That's the important thing. None of the questions asked was useless. On the contrary, they all made it possible to move forward. We have seen that it is important to be able to rely on Parliament, on what we all represent. From the beginning, together with our colleagues, we have had as a compass one direction, three imperatives. The first is to take care of the French. For this to happen, the essential directive – stay at home – must be strictly applied. That is why we are very much in favour of all the measures that enable us to meet this absolute requirement and to organise this confinement, which is essential in the fight against the disease. Taking care of the French also means taking care of those who take care of the French. We all had a thought for the white coats, which, in this war, pass me the expression, are in a way our great army, to whom we must give the means – masks, gels, breathers, tests. In short, stewardship must follow: it is essential that all means be given in this fight to those on the front. Taking care of the French means taking care of the employees, of those who, on a daily basis, France runs, the shops are supplied, the means of transport circulate. Each in different functions, they are essential to the life of our nation; It's kind of the back office of our country. To protect our economy, it is necessary to protect those employees who are waiting for a lot of us. They must know that, through these many provisions, we are responding to their concerns. The second imperative is to take care of France. For its economy, it is essential to prevent bankruptcies, to prevent employees from finding themselves on the streets or in difficult situations. This text contains measures that go in this direction and that we support. For the same reason, we voted in favour of the amending finance bill, which provides answers for the economy. In addition to the economy, our social model is essential. It is necessary to combine the two: let us not lose profits, in the name of economic imperatives, social dialogue, because it is essential. We must go further in this area, and we must now guarantee employees that their rights will not be diminished. It is essential that they be fully mobilized; They can only be in social dialogue. Finally, the third imperative is to take care of the Republic. We are committed to the balance of power. We've always combined order and freedom, it's our grammar. Let's keep doing it. Parliament's rights must not be confined, at least not beyond confinement. Let's get some answers on this. When we touch fundamental freedoms, it must be with a hand that shakes. Exorbitant powers must be entrusted only for reasonable time, and always under the control of Parliament – this is essential. In this regard, let us not fall below the measures that we were able to take during a terrible time in 2015–16 when the state of emergency came into effect. Finally, if we are to prevent the health crisis, which is already leading to a financial and economic crisis, from being accompanied by a democratic and social crisis, then we must combine all these aspects. That is why we are in favour of a state of health emergency and will not oppose the measures envisaged; But we want to make this choice in a responsible way. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR and LT groups]] You can count on us in the fight against the virus. We will contribute to this, with the motto of our republic: freedom, equality, fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u28	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u29	Allow me to have an emotional thought for all the victims, their families, their loved ones, as for all our fellow citizens confined, sometimes worried – stay home, follow the instructions, it is imperative. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] As a result of a review of a piece of legislation that called for difficult work, MPs sometimes applaud. Today, the only applause that it is possible to make resonate in the country must be for caregivers, all caregivers... ... for all those who, in public services, businesses and businesses, make it possible to sustain the essential functions of our country. One of them, a doctor in Compiègne, died, and we pay tribute to him. In every war, on the front, thousands of people sacrifice themselves so that we can continue to live. Our country is caught in an unprecedented, infernal whirlwind, where the certainties are no longer those of yesterday and where urgency commands everything. The most urgent need is to focus on the essential: the general interest. The essential thing, for the IDU group, to act and independent, and for all here, is to save lives. Let us therefore go to the essentials of our parliamentary work. Our group, in charge, will vote in favour of the texts. Our position is clear: the Government must be given the necessary margin of manoeuvre by prescription, because we do not know what tomorrow will be done and we will never be able to legislate as quickly as the coronavirus spreads. In these dramatic circumstances, the issue of the filing date of the lists for the second round appeared secondary. It is therefore gratifying that the Joint Joint Committee has decided on it and that the filing date has been postponed, in a wise spirit and in a collective sense of responsibility. A second round could take place by the end of June, in the municipalities that did not nominate a winner last Sunday. If the health situation does not allow it, then all voting operations should start again in these communes. We have thus struck a balance between the exceptional situation we are experiencing and the indispensable maintenance of democratic life. As far as the most important thing is concerned, we support the establishment of a state of health emergency. On this point too, the discussions have been constructive, and I would like to thank all parliamentarians. The aim is to provide a sufficiently broad framework for the Government to act, including in cases that will only appear gradually. However, we will not permanently introduce into our right the possibility of recourse to this regime. Within a year, it can no longer be invoked. I would also like to point out that the measures that can be taken under this regime have been listed in a limited way. With regard to what should be called a state of economic emergency, we also approve of the orders provided for, which give the flexibility to legislate quickly in many economic, administrative and judicial fields for which the continuity of daily life must be ensured, in order to protect the work of employees and to prevent companies from going bankrupt. In this respect, the introduction of rules on partial unemployment is very much expected, particularly by small enterprises. For both the state of emergency and the ordinances, the margin of manoeuvre given should not prevent democratic control from being exercised through national representation. Not only must the state of emergency be subject to such scrutiny, but the many orders must also, as far as possible, be subject to consultation with parliamentarians. Prescription measures will have to end the epidemic, which we all hope will come to an end as soon as possible. At this difficult time, we are trying to link our fellow citizens to the political decisions that are needed; they are fast, without always being readable. We are trying to raise the issues, concerns and alerts that our fellow citizens are telling us. It is our role, just as it is our duty to give the executive the financial and legislative means to deal with the crisis. Parliamentary debates have made it possible to tighten fines in the event of recidivism in a balanced manner for breaches of the confinement obligation, or to give municipal police officers the power to issue contraventions. Ladies and gentlemen, the spirit of national unity that prevailed between our two chambers must be maintained throughout the crisis. France's interest must take precedence over any other consideration. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, LR, LT and SOC groups]] For all those at the front, as for those at the back, for those who make the nation, we must give the country the means to deal with and defeat this epidemic. Together, we will overcome this ordeal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u30	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u31	In this period of health crisis, of unprecedented gravity in our recent history, national unity is an imperative. It must not remain a vain word, but an incarnation. That is why Members of the Liberties and Territories Group will vote for these very exceptional laws. We have just spent three days and two nights debating under conditions never known since the Algerian war, few, separated by security distances, but representing all the political currents of our country. We could have gone faster, but it doesn't matter: the main thing is the result. Through our vote, we are about to give the Government an important legal and financial arsenal to deal with the urgency. If we will later have to evaluate this mechanism, it is not the time to take stock, but the time for general mobilisation. In times of pandemics, the priority is to contain the number of patients and deaths, including the temporary deprivation of our fundamental freedoms – the right to assemble, move, exchange or practice our cults. By putting in place quite exceptional measures, but not an emergency regime, by heavily strengthening sanctions for offenders, we recall the priority of ensuring that everyone stays at home. We parliamentarians must fully exercise our oversight role, and we will be very vigilant, because we are the representatives of our voters, who are constantly soliciting us, and even more so at this time. We must be transparent and listen to them. These emergency texts mobilise considerable financial resources to help our companies, not to sink and accompany employees. Indeed, the second priority is that our economy should not collapse and that our citizens should be able to live in dignity. We have to be on the rendezvous. This Act provides for essential derogations from labour law. On behalf of my colleagues, I would like to welcome the commitment of the social partners, without which we will not be able to succeed. I also want to greet those who struggle: hospital staff, caregivers, rescue services. We hope that the discussions announced this week by the Government will lead to a fair upgrading of their salaries. I also want to have a thought for the sick, for the families of the victims, and of course for all our fellow citizens, whom I thank for their commitment. I finally have a thought for those who continue to make our country live – civil servants, employees, garbagemen, postal workers, cashiers, delivery agents and so many others – reminding them that they must be able to benefit from means to protect themselves. We pay a vibrant tribute to them. This episode reminds us of the importance of our public services as guarantors of the general interest. We cannot deregulate and at the same time support our care system, our dependent seniors, our education system, the environment, and I do. This unprecedented context forces us, at last, to pause in our local democratic life, yet so essential. The local elected representatives are also in the front line. However, the ongoing electoral process cannot continue. The compromise reached is far from perfect, but in the current circumstances the urgency is elsewhere. These means, this exceptional framework, give the executive the weapons necessary to act effectively. Minister, you, like the whole Government, have the means to act. If they are not enough, and if we are invited to do so, we will return to the Chamber. The President of the Republic told us that in the light of the situation, our whole country must mobilize and that nothing would be like before. We hope so. We must act in favour of a democratic life at last calmed by listening to each other, respecting each other and building together. We must maintain this spirit of gathering. Yes, we have worked well together in the last few days, in a state of mind that I had never known since I came to Parliament ten years ago, except perhaps during the Grenelle de l'Environnement, which unfortunately did not lead us to change a model of society that was already known to be flimsy. We must ensure a humane, balanced and responsible development, because this crisis questions our economic model, our ways of consuming, this globalization without control. Tomorrow, if we do not change our model, the frenzy of energy consumption and raw materials will totally destroy our beautiful planet and our common good, humanity. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, LaREM, MODEM and UDI-Agir groups]] Together, we will overcome this terrible crisis, to which we devote considerable resources. We are radically changing, and in urgency, our way of life. Let this terrible ordeal bring us back to the essentials: the beauty of our lives, the quality of our relationships. May it be useful not only in the fight against this scourge, but also against all the other dangers that await us today and tomorrow. We will have the capacity if we can build on our values, our institutions and trust each other. Perhaps we are in the process of charting a new path. Long live the Republic, live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, in the exceptional circumstances of our country, after nine hours of debate in committee, fourteen hours of debate in this Chamber and four hours of meeting of the Joint Joint Committee, I put the bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u33	[[Applause on all benches]] I would like to thank all the colleagues present and all the group presidents who have made it possible for us to adapt to these exceptional circumstances without being disturbed by our debates. I also want to thank all the officials and collaborators who made this democratic meeting possible for their dedication and professionalism. [[Applause on all benches]] I also want, as some have already done, to greet all our colleagues who are absent, but whose presence we all feel through different channels. Finally, I would like to tell you that I will always be actively watching, and with you, that this House remains, in all circumstances, the beating heart of our Republic and our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-22-O1188.u34	Next sitting, Tuesday, 24 March, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. The meeting is adjourned.
