ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u1	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft finance bill for 2021 (No. 3704, 3705).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u3	So here we are at the epilogue...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u4	That's the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u5	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...of the 2021 finance bill. At the time of this final reading, I would first like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for our intense and rich debates. I would like to thank in particular, as you will understand, the rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee on Finance for the good understanding which has characterized our relations, I believe, throughout these days and weeks. I would also like to thank all the representatives of the groups, the special rapporteurs, the finance commissioners and all the Members who have, at one time or another, participated in the examination of this budget. I would also like to thank all of Parliament for the work that it has done and for the excellence that characterizes them, here and in this chamber, where the debate has been fruitful and has also provided a useful complement to the text we are considering. By your votes and amendments, you have changed the text and alerted the Government on several topics, leading it to undertake administrative work to provide you with answers outside the framework of the PLF or by amending this text. Here are some non-exhaustive examples: the financial trajectory of chambers of commerce and industry has been modified to reflect concerns expressed on all banks. The inclusion of fixed costs for some emergency response activities has been improved. In the same way, we have heard questions from some of you about the tariff revision scheme for the largest photovoltaic contracts. As I indicated yesterday, sufficient time between the publication of the regulations and their application will allow time for adaptation to the actors. In addition, the safeguard clause will allow for investment financing arrangements to be taken into account so that these contracts can be revised under the best possible conditions. The Government has also, at your initiative, complemented the mechanisms that take into account the impact of the crisis on local communities. I am thinking in particular – this was the last act – of the creation of the safety net for the tax revenues of the communal bloc, with the adoption of the amendment by Jean-René Cazeneuve. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and SOC groups]] Behind the numerous review sessions held over the past three months, there are also no less numerous preparatory meetings and important upstream work for parliamentarians and their teams, as well as for the services of the National Assembly; I naturally associate them with the thanks I have given. You will understand that I extend the same thanks to the members of my cabinet and to the departments of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery for their presence at my side and for the relations they have had with each of you. Finally, let me thank my colleagues at Bercy who, around Bruno Le Maire, accompanied me and sometimes replaced me, here or in the Senate, for the conduct of the debates. The final reading is also the time to revisit the main elements of the 2021 Finance Bill. With this budget, we are presenting our recovery plan, the objectives of which are to allow the recovery of all the productive forces of the country and to prepare for the future. We want to strengthen the competitiveness of companies in European and international markets by reducing their taxation on a sustainable basis. Designing a recovery plan at the time of a crisis as unprecedented as the one affecting our economy is also proposing a perspective for tomorrow's France. Our recovery plan has the ambition of integrating strong measures for ecological transition, youth and territorial cohesion. Irrespective of the recovery plan, we also wanted to keep the course of our commitments. By strengthening the resources of the Ministry of Environmental Transition first of all, we are giving ourselves the means to lead our ambition to decarbonize the economy, preserve biodiversity and defend sustainable production. At first reading, I had the opportunity to present to you the green budget which, in addition to measuring the environmental impact of the programmes, which is unprecedented, brings new answers in favour of the ecological transition. The capacity of the major public policies of the Republic of Senegal has also been strengthened, in line with the programming laws adopted by the Parliament. The budget allocations for cultural policies, work and social cohesion also reflect our commitments. I am thinking in particular of equality between women and men: the entire Government is mobilized in this fight against persistent inequalities. The Finance Bill provides for a 40 per cent increase in the budget of the Ministry for Gender Equality. In the same way, regardless of the specific responses to the crisis or recovery, we have made the choice to increase the appropriations of the Ministry of Culture by 150 million euros. Finally, the reduction of compulsory levies is the third axis of our budgetary policy. This PLF for 2021 once again illustrates our commitment to the valorisation of the purchasing power of French and French people, which is reflected in the biggest tax reduction in 20 years. By the end of 2021, compulsory levies will have decreased by 45 billion euros since 1 January 2018, half for the benefit of households and half for the benefit of businesses. While the changing health situation has led us to change our economic assumptions, it also leads us to re-arm our support systems. That is why EUR 20 billion will be deployed in 2021 to help the most affected sectors to go through the crisis. Last Tuesday, on the occasion of the new reading of the text, we detailed the amounts and distribution of these appropriations. The choices we make today are effective in responding to the crisis; they are commensurate with the actions needed in the face of a new situation. This work that we have been doing together for several weeks is a prerequisite for giving our country and our economy all the means to get out of the crisis, and our fellow citizens the means to deal with it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This historic support has a cost. We are reaching levels of public deficit and debt just as historic as the crisis, which are not intended to persist at this level. We will also have to respond to this situation, make proposals, discuss it and discuss it with you to improve the framework for the management of our public finances and find ways and means of their recovery through a path of readjustment. It is not only a matter of controlling but also, in the long run, of reducing debt and resuming a number of fundamentals. This will be the subject of the discussions that will bring us together in the coming weeks and months. For the time being, and with this in mind, I am pleased that the examination of this budget is concluded in the constructive and serene spirit that has characterized our discussions. Each with its positions and differences, we have helped to make this text come out of Parliament much richer than it had entered, and I would like to thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u6	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u7	It was a budget fall, certainly not like the others: 8833 amendments were discussed during the discussion of this finance bill for 2021, not to mention the fourth amending finance bill. You know, it's a record. Our Assembly can always be pleased to debate more, but this figure also reflects, in my view, the particularly heavy substantive stakes of recent months. This budget cannot be like the others because we are fighting on two fronts. On the one hand, we must pursue an offensive policy to strengthen our priority public policies, as evidenced by the increase in the budgets of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Environmental Transition and the Ministries of Justice and National Education. On the other hand, through this budget, we must also translate our efforts to deal with the crisis in terms of public finances – both to respond to the emergency situation, mainly with the amending budgets, and to finance the recovery plan, which is central to this bill. I have often mentioned, in this gallery, the image of a curve in K. There is thus a France that declines economically and socially, because it suffers as a priority from the crisis; We must absolutely help him by being at the bedside of companies, employees and citizens. But there is also a curve that starts again in the third quarter of 2020 and that we must continue to accompany with investment: that is the recovery. That is why this autumn was so atypical: we had to carry out these two exercises so different and yet so complementary. This budget is also atypical in form because, for the first time, we have had to review our macroeconomic outlook several times. Between the first and the new readings, the Government revised the outlook for deficit, debt and growth – which is quite normal – because in the meantime, we have collectively taken the decision of a new containment, which has generated new needs. It is also on a new reading that we have allowed the Government to spend new emergency appropriations, thereby increasing the deficit in an unusual manner. All this puts us in the face of two issues that I now consider central. Indeed, we will vote on this budget and, immediately, we will have to endorse the clothes of the applicator's legislator: the challenge will lie in the correct application, in our territories, of the text that we voted for. I am convinced that the Member has a major role in the proper enforcement of laws. Explain, apply expenditure and anticipate the stakes in terms of debt and public finances: this role will require on our part an effort of pedagogy but also a culture of optimism, a positive culture, to demonstrate that investments are used to prepare France for 2030 and that our country can and must emerge strengthened from this crisis. This optimism is not a pious wish: we must also work at the same time on ourselves to reform the governance of public finances, to which I would like to devote a few moments. We have talked a lot over the past three years about the efforts to be made in terms of fiscal cleansing, the elimination of small taxes – I have been involved – or the revision of the tax expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that, at the end of this crisis, we have an appointment to honour with our country, that of governance of public finances. We must offer our fellow citizens more readability and control and better control of our public finances. A greater readability of the budget is a better consent to tax on the part of our fellow citizens and more dialogue with them. For us, national representation, this is not an option but, I believe deeply, a duty. That is why, with all those who wish, I will resume my work on the revisions of the tax expenditure in the first quarter, starting with those relating to the research tax credit, of which we have talked a lot. That seems essential to me. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same movements]] As we come to the end of this autumn's budget, I would like to say a final word of thanks to all Members, both the majority and the opposition, for the quality of the debates and for their constructive spirit. I thank the leaders of each group, first and foremost Alexandre Holroyd for the group of La République en marche. I also thank Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, and Olivier Dussopt, Minister of Public Accounts, for their support throughout these debates, as well as the Prime Minister who, in times of crisis, has been able to trust us. Finally, I would like to end with a warm and sincere thank you for those who really do the work, in the shadows, in the autumns of the budget: the administration of the National Assembly, the service of the sitting, the service of public finances, in particular the division of the rapporteur-general as far as I am concerned. Thanks to the administrators for their attendance: they did not count their hours of work – at the cost of too few hours of sleep.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u8	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u9	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u10	[[Smile on several benches of the LaREM group]] We conclude our fall work today with the final reading of this finance bill, after it has been rejected again by the Senate. In general, we are happier at the time of this session than we are by starting the examination of a text of this nature that appears to be a Everest to be faced – which has obviously been the case. This year, 11833 amendments were tabled, 600 more than last year, and there were 257 hours of work between committee meetings and public meetings, not to mention the long list of amending finance bills. As Laurent Saint-Martin has done, I would like to thank all those who have participated actively in this work, starting with those who are present, those who have had the courage to participate in all the night sessions and those who have passed into the Finance Committee, particularly during the examination of the second part of the PLF. I thank the majority, of course, but also and above all the opposition (Laughter on several benches of the LaREM Group) – the Republicans, the Socialists, the Unsuspecting France, the Communists and all the other groups – and I am pleased that we have had a good debate. The atmosphere has sometimes been a little warm, but it is in the logic of things because the examination of a finance bill – which is obviously politics, and in no way accounting – is an opportunity to see each other's convictions clash. There are other figures that give even more turnarounds than the first ones I mentioned, namely those of the public finance forecasts for 2021. After an estimated 6.7% of GDP, the government deficit increased to 8.5%, with the gap between these two estimates about the initial forecast deficit, which is considerable. As for the general balance of the State budget, after having been set at EUR 153 billion, it finally rose to EUR 173 billion. With regard to fiscal balances, the 2020 government deficit has been adjusted several times to be set by the Government at 11.3 per cent of GDP. We will see in a few months what is really happening, but this estimate is already considerable, since it amounts to EUR 223 billion. While the 2021 finance bill responds to this situation, it is not really the case for some of the elements that make up it. The growth in public expenditure is not only due to emergency and recovery expenditure, but also to the rise in current expenditure, in the order of 2.9% by volume – a relatively high level of precision in these virtually zero inflation times, where the volume and value are almost equivalent. This reflects an insufficient effort to control public spending, or even an inability to choose between spending and to differentiate between real and false priorities. More strikingly, our public debt, which, at the time of the tabling of the finance bill, was expected to amount to about 116 % of GDP by 2021, which is already considerable, will finally exceed the 120% mark: we will see what is really happening since no forecasts are being made at the moment, but the Government is retaining a forecast of 122.4 %, which is a little further away from the average public debt of the euro area countries. Our average gap in the euro area's public debt, which was about 15 points before the crisis, will be around 20 points after the crisis. We must be brave to face a crisis: a government must be, parliamentarians must be, and the French must be. We need to be even more courageous to implement the reforms that will allow our economy to bounce back after the crisis – I'm talking about a lasting rebound, not a straw fire. Together with my colleagues in the Republican Group – I welcome Véronique Louwagie's work on this point – I defended the idea that "no matter what" should be replaced by "no matter what." We have used all reasonable margins and, if the uncertainty that is somewhat the ecosystem of the review of this text can lead to the choice of audacity, it should also show us the path of prudence, which requires that any new measure of financing and support for the economy be taken, whatever happens, at stabilized debt. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] The greatness of politics, the greatness of our task require us to choose rather than pile spending, public policies and the debt that goes with it. You often say so, but today it is time to show it, Minister, by stabilizing all public spending, but above all the public debt that France will have to absorb.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u11	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u12	They like rehearsal comics!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u13	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u14	If some question the purpose of this five-minute rejection motion, I will tell them that it is intended to affirm our double opposition to this FLP. On the form, I do not share the self-satisfaction of the members of the majority, including the delegate minister, who have just spoken. After completing the examination of the fourth amending finance bill for 2020 at six o'clock in the morning, we completed the examination of the PLF 2021 at five forty-five o'clock: I am sorry, but these are not conditions worthy of democratic debate, and I am not just talking about the intellectual fatigue that can be felt at the end of the night. I saw that the press was holding on to a "budget marathon", but I have to say that the way it ends reminds me of the dance marathon that makes the subject of the film. The horses, from Sydney Pollack, are well finished, where, in the context of the 1930s crisis in the United States, we see people dancing more and more pathetically until exhaustion, just like the end of our work. I am not satisfied, for example, that we can vote for 90 amendments at once, without properly debating the measures they are about, namely the young RSA or the commitment to devote EUR 1 billion to working-class neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u15	It's always the same with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u16	You tell us that it is always the same thing, but suffer that the opposition has the right to oppose, even in Macronie! Moreover, this reproach is unjustified, because at second reading the PLF came back to us with numerous Senate amendments making important changes to the text. It will not have escaped you that the context has also evolved widely since the first reading: more poverty, more layoffs, more closures of businesses, reconfining, deconfining, self-confinement, closures and reopening of shops, in short, things have changed greatly, which justified the question whether the choices made at first reading were always the right ones. During the discussion of Rule 33, which was subject to major budgetary changes, I asked Minister Dussopt about certain issues, including environmental policy and risk forecasting, for which I am the Special Rapporteur. In order to ensure that all of us – including our colleagues in the majority – are fully informed, I asked him why the appropriations for the Landscape, Water and Biodiversity programme fall by EUR 1.3 million and those for the Risk Forecast programme by EUR 3.7 million, but I was only entitled to general provisions on the budget instead of the precise answers that I was entitled to obtain as a parliamentarian. On the issue of ecology, this approach reinforces me in the idea that the proposal of the President of the Republic to constitutionalize the defence of the climate and the environment has everything from the "com' coup" of a politician Santa Claus. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] What you're defending is not defensible. This had already been the case during the examination of many other texts, but it seems that parliamentarians are expected to obey the injunction "walking and messing! – or "Voice and shut up! " I don't know if Elysée sometimes thinks you're a doormat, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, but that's the impression we have when we see, for example, that the abolitions of positions at the National Forestry Office – NFB – which we all voted for at first reading, have been restored by the executive and that any shame you have had, you have validated this measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u17	And you vote against Mélenchon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u18	Perhaps it is in order to relieve you of your own frustration that you apply the same method to the whole House, but you will understand that the opposition refuses to be a doormat... If we ask for the rejection of this PLF, it is also because of the fate you have reserved for several amendments voted in the Senate, if not unanimously, at least very broadly and in a trans-partisan spirit. I am thinking of insurance taxes, taxation of digital giants, provisions on e-commerce or chambers of commerce. I also think, even if it does not come from the Senate, of the proposal to condition the research tax credit – IRC – for companies such as Sanofi. Your answers on these points are so irrational that one cannot help but think that some people have a lot of friends at the Elysée, to the point of getting you to apply their diktats. Finally, we have heard a lot about debt in this debate – while in reality everyone knows that we will not pay back the stock of debt, but at most its interests, as is already the case for the current debt – a leitmotiv supposed to justify that you always apply the same policy, consisting of a reduction in taxation for the richest, a decrease in public spending and a weakening of the state and deregulation. In fact, the best thing for our country would be to break up with this policy in a short time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u19	Here, go back to Mélenchon's!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u20	Mr. Cazeneuve, it's only nine and twenty-five, and you're already...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u21	Volubile!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u22	He didn't sleep!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u23	[[Smile]] ...a little upset, anyway. In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u24	Of course, the LaREM Group will vote against this rejection motion. We are proud of this finance bill, proud of this EUR 100 billion budget with a power and ambition equivalent to that of the budget used for post-war reconstruction. On the eve of the end-of-year celebrations, not like the others, where we are still asking for efforts from the French, we want to give them hope with this law. We want our compatriots, stuck in a tunnel whose vaccination finally shows them the exit, to be able to rush towards the light.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u25	Hallelujah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u26	We want to convince them that there are opportunities in the crisis and give them hope, while your group is content, Mr Coquerel, to use fear and to stir up anger to serve your ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u27	They need us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, we want to give the French the hope of profoundly transforming our economy, of implementing our ecological transition, of strengthening our cohesion, of finally forming a united nation, proud of itself, ready to meet the challenges of this century.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u29	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u30	I will be as brief as I am used to speaking, not about the PLF itself, but about the attitude of our colleagues. For me, this motion of rejection is a ridiculous motion. Throughout the discussion of this text, the FI Group has aligned stereotypes and tragic monologues based on all the misery of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u31	What you call monologue is the defense of our amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u32	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Don't say otherwise, dear colleague, you've done just that throughout the two readings! It is not that, a PLF, and I consider that the motion of rejection that you have just defended is too much motion, the motion of ridicule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u33	And this isn't a monologue?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u34	[[Same movements]] National representation does not need this, and we have all suffered from the imposition of these stereotyped monologues that are instrumentalizing poverty! It's not that, the construction of a public policy, and it's not that, democracy in this assembly! The MoDem Group will therefore vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u35	You're just repeating elements of communication!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u36	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u37	[["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this motion to reject...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u38	Always running behind the FI group!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u39	...even if this procedure seems ill suited to the situation and the parliamentary agenda. As our colleague Éric Coquerel has said, this PLF is not only an accounting text, but also a political text whose genes are those of ultraliberalism. Until the end, the President of the Republic will remain the President of the rich and of finance. The various measures making up this text unbalance it by supporting a policy essentially based on supply which, if it obviously satisfies the MEDEF,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u40	Or Pôle Emploi!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u41	... forget the young people, who will certainly be the first and last victims of this crisis. Moreover, this text lacks ecological ambition – our colleague Christine Pires Beaune will tell you more about this in a few moments – it forgets the most fragile of our fellow citizens and continues to deepen social inequalities. We deeply regret the way in which you reject all of our proposals, even those aimed simply at making some adjustments to your actions in the most affected industries. The situation in our public accounts is worrying, especially the debt. Our fellow citizens are wondering who will pay. We already know that the return to balance, which you call the "third time", will be in pain. The order you made to Jean Arthuis, chairman of your ad hoc committee, is not to deviate from the path of compulsory levies. This means, quite simply, that the return to balance will be at the expense of public services, the hospital, pensioners, the "Great Age" plan, among other things. So many reasons why we will not vote on this finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u42	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u43	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u44	Mr President, I shall be brief: a motion of rejection is above all a political act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u45	Submitted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u46	That's not ridiculous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u47	Of course it's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u48	The GDR Group will vote in favour of it because we are fighting the Government's policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u49	You're fighting the billions we spend on the population?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u50	We do not take poverty hostage, as some seem to say. The result of this policy – and of that, I think you don't have to be proud –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u51	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u52	...it's 10 million poor in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u53	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u54	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u55	The UDI and independent group systematically voted against motions for rejection of the budget texts. What would happen if such a motion were adopted? Section 47(3) of the Constitution provides that the provisions of the Finance Bill may be enforced by order. And we don't want to.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u56	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and as the elected representative of the responsible nation, I shall vote against this rejection motion, which is completely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u58	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u59	It says a lot about how you see the rights of the opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u60	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u61	The Republican Group will vote against this rejection motion, but for reasons somewhat different from those of the running Republic Group. We do not at all share your view that this budget is "the strongest and most ambitious" of the Fifth Republic. We have had ample opportunity to express our views on all financial issues over the past few months: in addition to the various readings of the PLF, there have been no fewer than four amending finance bills. All those who have spent whole nights in this House can rejoice at having reached the end of this budgetary marathon, and I agree with the remarks made by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u62	Yes, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u63	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u64	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It will not be enough to pronounce self-satisfaction formulas with emphasis to make us believe that your budget is not only green, fair, but also effective. There's no need to get mad at a lot of political rhetoric.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u65	It's got a nerve!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u66	I still expect valid arguments, for example, on the value of reducing production taxes. Yes, there are two visions of the world and therefore two accounting and financial visions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u67	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u68	...and that deserves debate. In this case, it is not even about that. This is mainly about pointing to the inefficiency of your budget...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u69	We'll see! See you in a year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... to revive the economy, given the crisis we face.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u71	But the budget has not yet been implemented!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u72	In the general debate, Mr. Mohamed Laqhila spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u73	We are concluding the discussion of the finance bill as the health and economic crisis has deepened since last September. It is characterized by two pillars: business support and economic recovery. In order for the corresponding provisions to be implemented, we can count on the Government and the administration, which, thanks to their reactivity, has helped to amortize the health and economic shock. Over the past few weeks, we have managed to contain the diffusion of the covid-19 while ensuring the continuity of economic life. Last spring, confinement had resulted in a drop of almost a third in economic activity, but this time, thanks to our pragmatism and the efforts of all our fellow citizens to limit the decline in activity to 12% compared to normal. The emergency measures put in place – the partial activity, the solidarity fund, the state-guaranteed loan or the postponements and cancellations of tax and social charges – have led, at the cost of an unprecedented budgetary effort, to put our economy under attack. It showed an incredible rebound capacity in the third quarter with a growth rate of 18.5% and 400,000 jobs created. However, we cannot deny that this crisis will leave important stigmas on jobs, businesses and public finances. These are major challenges for our future. The aim of this finance bill is to respond to this through the implementation of a formidable €100 billion recovery plan. I do not have time to mention all the measures it contains and will focus on three of them, illustrating France's three priorities: the reduction of 10 billion euros in production taxes; the youth plan which offers a solution to each of them while this crisis still weakens them; Finally, because I am convinced that ecology and economy are not just a rhyme, I will stress the very important effort in favour of the energy renovation of public buildings. We, members of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related Democrats, welcome this stimulus plan, and hence this finance bill. At the beginning of its review, we identified two main areas for improvement in this forum. The first is a better accompaniment of the business transition. While we regret that our amendments to transform an individual enterprise into a company have not been adopted, we note some progress. An amendment by my colleague Jean-Noël Barrot extended the scope of the scheme for the abandonment of claims to undertakings engaged in conciliation proceedings. My colleague Jean-Paul Mattei has taken an important part in the preparation and current drafting of Article 6 on leasing operations, a mechanism that can quickly generate cash for companies that need it. Let us also mention the adoption of my amendment and that of the Government relating to the two-year extension of zoning schemes such as rural revitalization zones – ZRR – or urban free zones – ZFU – to name but a few. This is a positive message: it will provide significant support to our territories and businesses, which will encourage their rebound. The second axis is the preservation of the environment. I welcome our government, which for the first time presents a green budget, which France is the only country in the world to do, it seems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u74	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u75	I am also thinking of Jean-Luc Lagleize's amendment, which allows, by encouraging elevations, to combat urban sprawl. Let us also mention the amendment by Justine Benin which promotes the rehabilitation of homes overseas, with in particular better protection against seismic risks. With regard to the agricultural aspect, which is crucial for our territories, I welcome the work of Sophie Mette, who, together with several other members of the majority, created a tax credit for the transition of farms to the "High Environmental Value" label. In conclusion, allow me, Minister, to welcome your willingness to keep the debate alive and your availability before and during the sittings to talk about our various proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] The budget that we are about to vote on allows us to consider, with a little more serenity, the way out of the health crisis. It is also the stimulus budget through the collective work that we have provided and the development of responses to the challenges. Let's take care of the days that'll be happier. For the time being, we are proud to vote on this finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u76	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u77	We are finally there: after several months of intense work, we come to the conclusion of the review of the finance bill for 2021. The Socialist and Related Group will vote against, without surprise, given the ideas that we have defended, unfortunately without success. It seems to us that the measures of this PLF are insufficient to respond to the growing social crisis and to deal with the imperative ecological transformation that is no longer an option. The Head of State announced earlier this week his willingness to hold a referendum to introduce the concepts of biodiversity, the environment and the fight against global warming into Article 1 of our Constitution. Of which act. We are obviously in favour of this measure, but even if we show political courage, why not go further and ask the French to speak out for or against peace in the world, for or against the eradication of poverty, for or against diseases? This referendum without any stake illustrates in the most cynical way the fact that you propose to the French only a facade ecology. We will find a complete demonstration of this in this PLF: all our amendments aimed at combating global warming have been rejected by the majority. There are many examples. We have proposed that the aid to businesses in your recovery plan should be conditional on ecological criteria, but you have refused to do so. We have proposed a climate premium designed to eliminate thermal colanders in ten years, you have refused it, preferring to muscle the MaPrimeRenov' device, which unfortunately will not allow massaging the renovation. We have proposed to introduce a vehicle weight criterion in the car malus, in line with the proposals of the citizens' climate convention, you have refused it, while adopting a tax on vehicles weighing at least 1.8 tons – the good deal! Almost all vehicles will be excluded. Unfortunately, we are not surprised. In ecological matters, beyond proclamations and solemn commitments, your balance sheet is marked by the seal of renunciation. Since the beginning of the legislature, your priority is companies, especially the big ones, and in this PLF, they have been granted massive aid, admit it, but without any targeting. Ten billion gifts every year: the MEDEF is delighted! The crisis of the covid-19 reminds us how essential it is to have a state in order of march, a strong state. Again, we can only note the absence of measures to consolidate our public services, in particular hospitals and medical and social services. The great forgetfulness of the financial texts we have examined this year remains the youth. "It's hard to be twenty years old in 2020": the head of state is lucid but what is he doing to respond to the despair of young people? What future does he promise them? We have been on this challenge for several months. Very many young people find it difficult to feed themselves, to shelter themselves, in short to survive. There are those who can count on the family circle but there are also all those who do not have that chance. They lost their student jobs, completed their studies but did not find an employer and did not find more internships or companies to follow an alternation or apprenticeship. What are you doing for them? Nothing. All our proposals to help young people were also rejected. The President of the Republic refuses to explore the possibility of opening the RSA to young people under the age of 25 during the crisis. The youth guarantee, scholarships or even civic service gratuity are totally inadequate in the face of the scale of the economic and social crisis facing the country, and youth in particular. My political family will propose, during its February parliamentary niche, to open a debate on the minimum youth, around the AILE(S) project – individual support for solidarity emancipation. I invite journalists who are watching us to learn about it and to echo it with our fellow citizens; it is online until 20 December on the citizens' parliament website. In conclusion, I shall address the financing of the crisis. A great debt is left to young people, while those who continue to earn annuities and dividends, not only are not called upon to make an extra effort – on the contrary! – but their taxes are also falling; What a mistake! [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Mr. Christophe Jerretie also applauds]] Finally, I would like to thank our assistants, the collaborators of the groups and the Government, as well as the officials of the Committee on Finance and the sitting, for the quality of their work and their unwavering availability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u78	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u79	So here we are at the end of the 2021 review of the finance bill, at the end of a budget marathon of almost three months. During our long hours of discussion, sometimes until late in the night, we had several times the opportunity to say how exceptional this budget was, and how vertigo was sometimes caused by its figures. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei applauds]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] First of all, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, Olivier Dussopt, for his infallible presence on the bench throughout the debates. Of course, on all sides of the House, we would like to see more parliamentary amendments adopted every year, but I would like to thank you very sincerely and to pay tribute to your consistency in the discussions at the sitting. I will also have a word for our rapporteur-general, Laurent: it was a challenge to succeed Joël Giraud, and I think I can say, without betraying him, that you did not fail. Thank you, and congratulations. Finally, I would like to thank you, colleagues, for the quality of our debates, which were rich and fruitful. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to all those working in the Government and the National Assembly, as well as to our parliamentary colleagues, who have, on several occasions, had to watch late in the night, at the rate of prolonged sittings. The Action Together Group welcomes the budget presented by the Government: it is up to the challenges of the crisis, responding both to the need for support from the most affected actors and to the need for recovery, in order to prepare our economy for the challenges of the future. Parliament's examination of the text has made it possible to enrich it, proof, if necessary, that parliamentarians still have a role to play at the heart of our democracy. Thus, our group welcomes the fact that it has helped to change the Government's position on the taxation of unleaded fuel 95 E10, or on the taxation of chambers of commerce and industry. In keeping with our constructive ADN, we have constantly proposed amendments to enrich the text, several of which have been adopted: bringing the tax treatment of compensatory benefits paid in the event of divorce into line, clarifying the tax credit for phonographic production, taking into account the special situation of host families for the benefit of the weight reduction, reducing the tax on commercial areas – TaSCom – due from businesses organised in branches of less than 400 square meters, or creating a high environmental value tax credit. We have been committed to contributing to a fruitful debate. [[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] The hardest thing is ahead of us, however, because the major challenge of this "XXL" budget lies in its application. The opening of billions of euros in appropriations will have to be translated into concrete terms, as close as possible to the territories and businesses. The challenge is that these credits will have to be disbursed as quickly as possible, in the most relevant way, to ensure that public policies reach their targets. Parliamentarians and local elected representatives must be an integral part of this process. In order to illustrate my point, I would like once again to alert you, Minister Delegate – as I have done many times during the examination of the text – about the situation of the restoration extras, the "permissibles". I thank the Government for announcing exceptional assistance of 900 euros, but it has not yet arrived. However, time is running out for these workers, who have had no resources for several months. This is one example, among others, that should invite us to continue to raise, on an ongoing basis, the very concrete difficulties encountered on the ground, in order to warn the Government, so that solutions can be found as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We are therefore about to vote on a budget that is an indispensable instrument for our country. It is now the responsibility of each and every one of us to enable it to be properly implemented. The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u80	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u81	While the economic and social context remains very uncertain and the health situation continues to evolve, it is clear that the 2021 finance bill cannot be a budget like any other: it is a budget of crisis, but also a budget of challenge in the face of the difficulties we face with resilience. Exercise of perilous style between the implementation of the prerogatives of the state of emergency and the revival of economic attractiveness, it continues to change the trajectory of our public finances, with a public debt expected at 122.4 % of the gross domestic product – GDP – next year, making the recovery plan obsolete, and the financial forecasts that underlie it, anachronistic. This final reading gives me the opportunity to discuss the situation of the ultramarine communities, particularly French Polynesia. Part of the recovery plan is going overseas, but we do not yet have clear indications as to the distribution of these new appropriations. Our communities should not be excluded; their status of autonomy must not hinder the revival of the economic activity of our territories, especially since we have already voted for broad arrangements derogating from the common law. We advocate for a degree of equity in the provision of support arrangements; I am thinking in particular of the ultramarine airlines: at a time when Air France has received broad State support, ranging from taking over the partial activity to the granting of monetary aid, the Pacific companies have had to settle for the loans guaranteed by the State, the PGEs. However, in French Polynesia, where the economy is dependent on tourism, air transport is essential to connect territories that span 5.5 million square kilometres. In our view, this area would justify the eligibility of French Polynesia for aid for internal territorial continuity. With this in mind, French Polynesia voted in its budget for 2021 for a fund to finance the deficit links, which connect the most remote islands. It requires the creation of a new tax, increasing the tax burden on Polynesians, even though the crisis has slowed down economic activity. Just as the Government undertakes to contribute to the financing of the Polynesian solidarity regime, it would be interesting if, by means of a convention, the State also undertook to contribute to the financing of internal territorial continuity in order to unblock our territories, as it already does in Guyana. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Government's efforts to support territorial continuity in this budget, which has been upgraded in line with a promise of campaigning by the President of the Republic. We are also hopeful that the historical upgrading of the budget allocated to justice will benefit French Polynesia: as it stands, the human and material resources available to our justice do not allow it to work productively. With regard to health, I particularly welcome the commitment of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to renew a three-year health convention, through which French Polynesia will be able to provide all people with access to care, including in the most remote islands. I wonder, however, because the finance bill does not include any budgetary translation of this commitment. Mr. Deputy Minister, can you give us some clarification on this matter? Finally, I would like to point out to you, Minister Delegate, budget after budget, the situation of our members, who remain excluded from the installation allowance for the ultramarine military, INSMET. The Minister of Armed Forces said two days ago: "The army of the future is also to balance all the inequalities of the past between the military in order to face the future together. So, minister delegate, let's start with this subject in 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In conclusion, because this budget contains essential measures to boost and support businesses, the UDI and independent group will vote in favour of it, bearing in mind that it has not sufficiently anticipated the circumstances in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u82	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u83	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u84	[[Smiles of Mrs Mathilde Panot]] Mr Minister Delegate, Mr President, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to suffer my monologue, because, once again, we are witnessing a real caricature of the parliamentary debate; We even wonder what the shuttle is for with the Senate, if it is to systematically refuse each of its contributions! As a matter of fact, it is more to an endless solicitoque, on both sides, that we are witnessing. And when you incorporate some of the opposition's amendments here or there, you do not want to associate it with it, as President Woerth pointed out – I am thinking in particular of the safety net, granted urgently to the municipalities. However, real progress could have been made by our fellow senators on common sense measures, strengthening social justice and accompaniment to the territories: I am thinking in particular of the tax on digital giants – the GAFA –, online traders and insurance, all of which benefit from the crisis; I am also thinking of the proposal to go back to the EUR 1 billion reduction in housing tax compensation for the departments. We are also saddened to see the systematic restoration of mission appropriations as adopted at first reading in the National Assembly – downward recovery, as just. You even push this planking to the absurd, deciding to reduce the NFB's positions while their retention had been acquired in high struggle, as Mathilde Panot pointed out. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Of course, you will be able to plasticize with additions dictated, first and foremost, by the resumption of the epidemic – a kind of first emergency amending budget, even before the finance bill is voted, which reflects the inability to anticipate reigning in Matignon. So yes, you are expanding the solidarity fund for businesses by 5.6 billion, but without reviewing its allocation modalities: an independent person is still not compensated if he has not suffered a reduction in his turnover by at least 50%. So yes, you give an exceptional aid from 900 euros to 70000 seasonal and extras from hotels, restaurants and events, but if a seasonal earns 1500 euros, it will only receive 300 euros from Pôle emploi – since 40 % of its salary is equivalent to 600 euros – a derisory sum, so great is the distress of this sector – because it is 2 million extras that are in trouble, not 70000! So yes, it was essential to ensure that the principle of solidarity was applied, by helping and accompanying the economic actors hardest hit by the crisis; But among the billions injected, far too much will support, without conditions, companies that are licensing or offering dividends rather than making the investments expected, as Éric Coquerel clearly stated yesterday – figures in support of it! At the same time, you look forward to agitating, always, the red cloth of the debt; But if you are so concerned about the debt, why are you depriving yourself of new revenues – those proposed by the Senate, for example, even in a cyclical way, in order to tax in particular those who profit from crisis, or those that you could collect by returning, even on a temporary basis, on gifts of all kinds that you have offered to the richest – solidarity tax on wealth – ISF –, flat tax – or on the various niches benefiting polluter sectors, that you maintain "whatever it costs", like this aberration of tax credit on glyphosate, rather than providing aid to organic farming? Finally, you deliberately and shamefully deprive yourself of certain recipes. I am thinking of the EUR 10 billion reduction in production taxes for next year. Colleagues, you are making a budget as if the crisis had not gone through this and would not be there next year. Thus, you continue in your logic, seeking to plan where on the contrary it is necessary to invest. I am thinking, for example, of the environment, with millions less jobs in the ministry. But how are you going to manage your sprinkle of the recovery plan tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u85	Sprinkling?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u86	100 billion, you call that dusting?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u87	Just calm down! Get yourself vaccinated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u88	Yes, we have to accept criticism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u89	Public finances seem to be of little interest to you, as the department's workforce continues to fall. Otherwise, you welcome petty, petty increases for research, petty increases for education. A billion is ridiculous to meet the needs of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u90	Is $1 billion ridiculous?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u91	In conclusion, this budget, including a stimulus plan, is not adapted to the current poverty-related emergencies, nor to those that are expected since there will be no recovery in your way,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u92	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u93	... a path, a logic which, if we look at what has happened for forty years, has led us precisely to the current chaos: dislocations in mess, explosion of poverty, dismissals, unemployment, dilapidation of our public services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u94	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u95	She's absolutely right! Take a little height!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u96	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u97	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u98	Having reached the end of the budget marathon, what can we retain from our debates for the past three months? Faithful to itself, the majority almost systematically refused to hear the proposals of minority groups. Yet, in his general policy speech, the Prime Minister said: "Our country must be united to face the difficult times it is going through. And he added: "I extend my hand to the representatives of the nation, to the social partners, to the living forces, to the territories and to all our fellow citizens. What is left of this hand today? The answer is in the text, which retains almost only the contributions of the Government and the majority. However, we agreed that a recovery plan in the face of the scale of the crisis was essential. We regret even that it was not presented earlier and that the 100 billion euros initially announced are actually only 22 billion, even though we recognize that extensions were brought to the device during the shuttle. The Senate has shown constructive opposition by adding additional measures. Why withdraw the tax credit on live entertainment when the cultural world needs it? Why give up an exceptional contribution from the large distance selling companies who are the winners of this crisis? Why refuse to quantify the activity on the territory of digital giants for more social justice? Environmentally, why give up a zero-rate loan to facilitate the purchase of clean vehicles? Our group had also engaged in a constructive dialogue by proposing, among other things, the opening of the RSA to young people between the ages of 18 and 25, who, we see, are particularly affected by the current crisis. The committee of inquiry of our colleagues Sandrine Mörch and Marie-George Buffet, whose report was published yesterday, shows that poverty is increasing, as well as insecurity, uncertainties with prospects of entering the labour market that are moving away. Finally, the recovery plan is not enough for its social aspect, although it should be a priority. After the end of the LPA – personalized housing assistance – accession or the zero-rate loan restrictions, after the creation of the property tax, the IFI, you cut this time in the social housing budget. By punctuating more than one billion euros in the Housing Action Funds, once again you are fearing a slowdown in the construction and renovation of the social park. I am very happy to acknowledge that progress has been made on the environmental side, even if this budget is not the giant step announced. However, our group wishes to recall the central role of communities in this challenge. They are at the heart of the policy of ecological transition through their investments, through mobility in waste management. This budget lacks a setback on impulse capabilities. Indeed, if the reduction in production taxes goes in the right direction, the choice made by the Government to compensate local authorities affects their fiscal autonomy. However, it is imperative to preserve their resources and their freedom of rate in order to maintain local support for businesses, local businesses, artisans and services to the population. The Government seems to rule out this path, that of responsibility, readability and ultimately trust between citizens and their local elected officials. Finally, I call for vigilance on the sustainability of public debt. By 2021, it will reach almost 123% of GDP – 300 billion resources, 450 billion expenditure. If stimulus spending is necessary, we must ensure that the French do not sacrifice future generations by bringing the burden of this debt to them. Since the presentation of the recovery plan, we have asked you about its financing. But after three months of discussion, we have no answer. Why do you refuse to involve the most wealthy in the national solidarity effort? We are all convinced that there is a need to combat the worsening of social inequalities and that this requires a change of approach. It is now necessary to change course. In conclusion, this budget can be limited to a lack of listening and dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u99	We had to come and debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u100	For all these reasons, you will easily understand that the Libertés et territoires group will vote almost unanimously against the 2021 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u101	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u102	We are indeed at the end of the review of the finance bill for the year 2021. More than ever, the proposed budget should have been that of solidarity and support, it should have listened to the most fragile people and to all those who have been hit hard by the consequences of the health, social and economic crisis which we know and which will continue to be so until it is behind us. What happened on the way? Before I get into the heart of the matter, I wish, after Éric Coquerel, to deplore the circumstances in which our debates are taking place, with a timetable as tight as the one imposed on us. It is not permissible to have only one evening to reread the finance bill, and we had to consider more than 850 amendments between 18:30 on Tuesday and 6:00 in the morning on Wednesday. Hear that this is absurd and not up to the stakes. Of course, we will be told that many topics have been addressed at first reading, but not all have been addressed and things have changed. And it is not to mention the committee which has also sent out many amendments without any real discussion due to lack of time. As every year, no concessions have been made: you have not receded on anything. You have rejected all the opposition's amendments, including ours, which were aimed at supporting the most precarious, the youngest and the most fragile. All in all, it is these more than 10 million men and women who live below the poverty line that you abandon. By our many amendments, we have made the voice of all those forgotten. Unfortunately, the majority and the Government have remained deaf, deaf in the face of the distress of these French and French, deaf in the face of the demands of those who no longer have anything or much more. What are we waiting for? You made the choice of debt, inevitable to some extent, but the most affluent could have put their hands on it. But you didn't ask them. We propose and argue that action must be taken, but you refuse to tax the digital giants and the dividends of large companies. You refuse to question their tax niches and impose conditionality on aid. At the same time, you refuse to start the discussion on a solidarity tax or on an exceptional contribution from the richest. Yet you agree to lower taxes for the wealthiest and ever-more large companies. In short, until the end of the legislature, you will retain this fierce will that enlivens you to preserve the most affluent and to encourage the accumulation of wealth without just redistribution or tax, social or ecological justice. However, I am pleased that an amendment to extend the possibility of receiving the tax credit to support the exit of glyphosate to all farmers who are engaged in a significant part of their activities in the field of livestock farming, as is the case in my sector. It was proposed by my colleague André Chassaigne, but it was the majority that was adopted. The extension of the zero-rate loan or the rural revitalization zones until 2022 was necessary, and it is good that this is done. These temporary decisions will have to be followed up. However, there are still subjects on the margins. The cultural sector deserves more support, to mention only this one, but recreational parks or animal parks, more broadly everything that is cultural and that has been considered non-essential – what a word! – but still essential to life in society, still do not receive the necessary support despite our interventions. We have tabled an amendment in favour of the creation of an equalisation fund to extend equality between cultural, leisure and attraction areas, but it has been rejected. However, I note the Government's commitment to hand-sewn and to respond on a case-by-case basis. We look forward to seeing these promises fulfilled. I also invite national representation and the Government to keep a close eye on communities. With all the reforms undertaken and despite the promise of compensation and stability, we must remain vigilant about the investment capacity of local authorities, as they are the driving force behind the economic fabric and life at the local level, but also of course at the national level. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] For all these reasons, the Communist MPs and GDR will not vote for this finance bill, which extends the precedents in the failure to take into account a true distribution of wealth, accentuating the number of poor in our country where the 10 million mark is crossed. Your policy, unfortunately, is that, too. I conclude by thanking all our collaborators, from all walks of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u103	On the whole of the finance bill for 2021, I have an application for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Fabrice Le Vigoureux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u104	During this Christmas period, with the suspension of parliamentary work, we will have a little more time for our family, our loved ones, our friends, those and those who matter so much in our lives, and that, because of our political commitment so dense and even more substantial in this troubled period, we see so little. This will be done in a small committee and even through these professionally useful but emotionally frustrating video conferencing. For me, these moments are precious because this is where we meet, where we gather, often in all benevolence, generations, professions, concerns, and very different sensitivities confront each other. It is also here that we can see which of our budgetary debates over the past few weeks translate or animate most the daily lives of our loved ones. To those, to my children, to my nephews and nieces who are engaged in study projects or a professional life, I will tell them that this budget 2021 prepares the future, that it puts in a new way on learning, the recruitment of young people, the industry of the future, that it engages an accelerated catch up in the research and the attractiveness of the trades related to it. To this friend, mayor of a rural commune, I will tell him that this budget continues, as it has been for three years, to preserve its operating endowment and that it will give it unsurpassed additional means to invest by securing its tax revenues. To this neighbour so concerned about the level of debt, I will tell him that France's signature and credibility have been preserved by the serious budget that we have shown in calm times...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u105	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u106	[["That's right! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...by reducing the deficit to less than 3% of GDP, removing France from the excessive deficit procedure and stabilising the debt during the first three years of our mandate. To this young entrepreneur friend, often so vehemently faced with the level of compulsory levies in France, I will entrust that the downward trajectory will be continued, both for households and for businesses, as regards both the housing tax and the income tax, the corporation tax and the production tax, because we were able to measure before the crisis how much this policy paid for purchasing power, for foreign investment in France and for job creation, even in the industrial sectors. To these parents who are so concerned about the plight of the most fragile and humble, I would like to recall the particular support given to associations to help vulnerable people, the development of emergency accommodation, meals at 1 euro in university restaurants, the doubling of the youth guarantee, the 300,000 accompanying paths to employment and the millions of euros allowing women in precarious situations to provide themselves free of charge with periodic protections. They'll tell me it's not enough, and they'll be right, because there's still so much to do. To this restorer friend who loves his job so much and dreams of finding his stoves and his team, I would say that the solidarity fund, the exemption from his duties and the partial activity to 100% are extended, but that we all hope that this extension will serve as little as possible. Finally, to all of them, I will send two messages. Firstly, that this budget should be combined with an unprecedented €100 billion recovery plan, that we will never have put so much money into ecology and green mobility – on this point, I am delighted, after having defended it so much as a special rapporteur, that university buildings and student residences can undertake important energy renovations, which are a source of savings in the operation, decarbonisation and well-being of users on campuses, and that Europe has been our lever to finance this plan. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT groups]] Secondly, I will tell them that all this is difficult, never binary, bankrupt, and that the trade-offs between ecological imperatives and the preservation of employment, between health management and the maintenance of activity, are formidable and sometimes dizzying. After telling them my pride in belonging to this majority, I will also slip this splendid message from Jean Tardieu, who adorns the rotunda at the exit of this House: "Men are looking for light in a fragile garden where colors shiver. This fragile garden – this fragile democracy, it could be said – lives thanks to the commitment of the colourful MPs who sit here, on all benches. It lives through our differences, our struggles, our debates and our compromises. More than ever in this period, one can both admire and be friends with a Laurent Saint-Martin or Olivier Dussopt and have a true respect, a true gratitude for an Éric Woerth, a Jean-Paul Dufrègne or a Véronique Louwagie, and many others who sit on other benches, and it is very well so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u107	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u108	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u109	At the end of a particularly dark year for the French economy as well as for the morale of our compatriots, we are ready to complete here the consideration of the finance bill for 2021. This moment is of some seriousness, as the crisis that strikes us is violent. Now, as in March, you seem not to be fully aware of this crisis or of the debt wall that threatens us. This is proof of your government's stupefaction last November, when the second wave of the epidemic should have been largely anticipated. You have been too light and too optimistic in refusing to present several scenarios of evolution of the epidemic and believing in a quick rebound that all the analytical institutes considered unrealistic. In fact, this budget for 2021 is already largely over. In this crisis, the Republicans have shown a spirit of responsibility and a sense of public interest. We voted for the four amending finance bills for 2020 because, although imperfect, they provided essential assistance for all of our businesses, hardened by two confinements. Above all, in this crisis, we have constantly made proposals to strengthen the support mechanisms for SMEs and households, and to avoid cascading bankruptcies which will have dramatic consequences for employment; proposals, too, so as not to forget anyone in the aid schemes and thus not to add injustice to anxiety. In such a critical situation, we wanted to take our full part in fighting for the survival of our companies and industries at risk. And yet you never wanted to hear us or listen to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u110	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u111	Your government and your majority promised us a new way of doing politics, but we're actually finding out that, on the contrary, your new world is definitely worse than the old one. Almost all of our proposals, however judicious, have been swept away with a backhand. The opposition, on the right and on the left, has been ignored.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u112	As always!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u113	In fact, you did not hesitate, at first reading, when the result of a vote did not suit you, to resort to the process of second deliberation to make us recast in catini, in the middle of the night.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u114	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u115	You then methodically and cynically detrigued almost all of the work of senators, with virtually none of the advances voted in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u116	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u117	However, the Senate's contributions were remarkable and perfectly balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u118	They would have been expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u119	They would have made it possible to fill many weaknesses and shortcomings of this PLF because, contrary to what we have heard in this House, this budget is neither the strongest nor the most ambitious of the Fifth Republic. What a pretension, what a pride placed in such a difficult time, than to believe you so superior to others! If you had respected the Senate and the opposition a little bit, you could have voted on many useful measures, but unfortunately you rejected them as a whole. Support for Brittany Ferries and the shipping companies that are victims of fair competition? Rejected. The introduction of an exceptional contribution on e-commerce to restore more fairness between Amazon and small traders? Rejected. The total challenge of overtime for caregivers in 2020? Again, rejected. Our proposal to smooth over five years the very sharp rise in the car malus? Rejected. The possibility for the municipalities to be able to continue in 2021 to exempt from CFE – the land contribution of the companies – the companies of their territory? Rejected. The creation of a €2 billion fund to help small traders pay their rent? Rejected. Even the reduction of VAT to 5.5% on train tickets, which was nevertheless a sensible proposal of the Citizens' Convention, you refused it, proof that your proposal for a referendum is an artifice to mask the weakness of your ecological record. Finally, if this PLF is highly questionable, it is all the more so as it inexorably digs up our debt, which we might understand in the short term, but, alas, you never tell us when or how you intend to exonerate us. Your original fault is that you never made any effort to reduce spending in the previous three years of growth and, above all, that you gave up long before the end of the crisis of the Covid-19 to reform our country. When our debt reaches 122 per cent of national wealth and threatens our budgetary sovereignty, it is essential to prioritize. Today, however, the priority is urgent and the time for recovery will come. Since you have rejected these proposals of common sense and because this finance bill has too many inadequacies and questionable measures, the Republicans Group will vote against this budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u120	What? Against?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u121	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC and Dem groups. – The rapporteur-general also applauds]] I will conclude by thanking all those who participated in the review of this text. Mr Minister Delegate, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr Eric, Mr rapporteur-general, Mr Laurent, ladies and gentlemen, I wish all of you great holidays at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u122	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u123	I put the entire finance bill for 2021 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u124	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 124 Number of votes cast 124 Absolute majority 63 For adoption 91 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u125	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u126	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u127	The next item is the final reading of the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal (No. 3697).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u128	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u129	We are indeed meeting this morning for the final reading of the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal. As we come to the end of the legislative process of this text, I would like once again to thank the rapporteur Yannick Kerlogot, the great rapporteur, for his involvement, precision and quality work, which has been praised on all the benches of this House during the various readings. This text marks the culmination of a long process, launched by the speech of the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou in November 2017. He expressed his willingness to create the necessary conditions for the return of works of African heritage, as part of the renewal and deepening of the partnership between France and the countries of the African continent. The project to restore twenty-six works from Béhanzin's treasure to the Republic of Benin and the sword, accompanied by its sheath, attributed to El Hadj Omar Tall to the Republic of Senegal is part of a policy of cultural cooperation already undertaken with these two countries. It also takes place in a general context of reflection on the role and missions of museums in Europe and around the world. It is therefore an important text that embodies a new ambition in our cultural relations with the African continent. It takes into account the exceptional nature of the works and objects that we wish to return to the two countries that have requested them – I believe that you all now know them with precision. French law offers several ways of making refunds. The Government has made the choice to proceed through legislation, allowing the legislator to decide: it is Parliament which, I hope, by voting this text in a few minutes, will give its consent to the restitution of its works. This text will not have the effect of creating a case law: unlike a judge's decision, it applies only to the specific case of the objects listed and does not establish any general right to restitution on the basis of abstract criteria defined a priori. It implies that the principle of the inalienability of French public collections, enshrined in article L. 451-5 of the Heritage Code, to which we are all attached, must be derogated from on an ad hoc basis, but without in any way calling it into question. This principle is in fact at the heart of the French design of the museum, which entrusts our public institutions with building collections so that they are studied, preserved and presented to the public. Beyond the terms of their legislative framework, I know that these restitutions are at the heart of heated debates, that they feed on many ethical, philosophical and political questions. To accept the restitution of these works is not to call into question the role played by the French museums that ensured its conservation, the Musée du Quai Branly-Jacques-Chirac and the Musée de l'Armée, on the contrary. These two institutions have allowed for their conservation but also their in-depth study, without which we could not fully appreciate their historical, symbolic and aesthetic value. They also provided for the presentation to the public, particularly in their home countries, in the form of loans. We must be grateful for that. To accept these restitutions is not to question the universalistic approach of museums, which France has been defending and promoting for more than 200 years. The primary vocation of culture is to express, to explore what our human condition has of universal. This conviction is at the foundation of the French Ministry of Culture. For this reason, France agrees to return works to other States only if they commit themselves to maintaining their heritage vocation, i.e. continue to be preserved and presented to the public in places dedicated to this function.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u131	In the cases of Benin and Senegal, these guarantees have been given. France supports the initiatives of these two countries in favour of the heritage, far beyond the refunds alone. This text is a true act of friendship. It will allow the Beninese and Senegalese peoples to reconnect more directly with their past and to gain access to elements of their history, as our own collections allow us to do. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond the differences and debates that we have had on the creation of a scientific council – I have already expressed the reasons for my disagreement on this – I believe that this text can and must bring us together, as was the case at first reading and again. I therefore hope that once again the National Assembly will give its unanimous support to the return of these exceptional works.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u132	Mr Yannick Kerlogot, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u133	Finally, we come to the conclusion of our work on a bill whose scope is symbolic and historic: this morning, through the voice of the Government, represented by the Minister of Culture, we are asked to authorize the release of the public collections of twenty-seven cultural objects from sub-Saharan Africa. The Members we are here will vote unanimously, I hope, for the transfer of ownership of the work to the Beninese Republic and the Senegalese Republic. This is the first realization of the presidential promise made in November 2017 in Burkina Faso. To those who denounce a fact of the prince, I will reply that, for my part, I prefer to retain the recklessness and responsibility of a French president who intends to accompany an African youth in legitimate quest for his heritage identity. What a journey since July 27, 2016, when Benin made an official request for the restitution of some of Abomey's royal treasures! France replied that it was impossible to respond positively, recalling the principle of the inalienability and non-seizability of public collections. By way of derogation from an emergency law, we recall that it is on a case-by-case basis that it is possible to respond to requests, which must now be considered legitimate, for these works to return to their country of origin. From the first reading of the text, we managed to go beyond the image of a disturbing mirror of our colonial past, to recognize unanimously the validity of the restitutions that occupy us. Let us focus on that intention. During the hearings, with my colleagues Marion Lenne, Pascal Bois and Michèle Victory in particular, we retained the expectation, the enthusiasm for the announced return of prestigious, but also sacred, symbolic and historical objects among the populations concerned. Let us already remember the fervour aroused by the deposit, in 2018, in the form of a loan, of the so-called "El Hadj Omar Tall" sword at the Musée des Civilisations Noirs in Dakar. We are asked to evolve a loan renewal into a transfer of ownership. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marion Lenne, told me yesterday that recently, in Senegal, on a boat to the island of Gorée, in the bay of Dakar, she was struck by the number of young people who were going to the museum presenting the history of their country, from the Paleolithic to the present day, and to the House of Slaves, where is the door of the journey without return. These young people confirmed to him the national unity of the sword. To our colleagues in the Senate, I wish to express my willingness to join them in a debate that will be visibly allowed in the context of a PLP presented in January, following the fifteen proposals presented yesterday, as part of a fact-finding mission to begin a reflection on the process of returning cultural property to the countries that request it. We will then have the opportunity to meet, I think, about the willingness to cooperate with the conservatives, scientists and other historians of these countries, about the desire for a better circulation of public collections, about the proposal to contribute to the training of museum professionals who request it. It will also be an opportunity to reaffirm the reality of the scientific and historical steps taken by departments and the Conservatives towards the twenty-seven cultural properties of this bill, which are an exemplary first reference. I would like to acknowledge the professionalism and availability of my interlocutors in the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs as well as in the Ministry of Culture. It is a pity, however, that we have not managed to limit ourselves to the only two articles of a symbolic text that expresses a call to trust and fraternity. We can meet again this morning by a unanimous vote. Moreover, this text is to be placed in a more comprehensive project of cultural cooperation between Africa and France, which honours our country. How far we have come since the presidential speech delivered in Ouagadougou in 2017 in front of Burkina Faso students! I once again welcome the work begun, particularly under the auspices of these two ministries, which preceded these first refunds. Let us recall a few dates: the forum of 4 July 2019 on "The African heritage: succeeding together our new cultural cooperation"; the move, on December 16, 2019, just a year ago, from Franck Riester, then Minister of Culture, to Benin, to support and strengthen Franco-Beninian cultural cooperation; Finally, the joint declaration of 17 November 2019, at the fourth Franco-Senegal intergovernmental seminar, in favour of strengthening the cultural partnership. Before concluding, I would like to commend the work undertaken by the Quai Branly Museum in reviewing the collections in order to identify objects acquired by violence or administrative constraint and those for which disputes remain as to provenance, all allowed by internal research grants, which have been redirected to these issues. It is time to act by our vote the transfer of ownership by which three anthropomorphic wooden statues of the Ghézo kings, half-bird man, Glèlè, half-man, half-lion, and Béhanzin, half-requin man, four sacred gates of the royal palaces of Abomey realized by Fon Sosa Adede under the reign of Glèlè, a royal seat and recades await their return to the royal enclosure of the palaces of Abomey, from which will emerge in a few months a brand new museum. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] I finally have a thought for the president of the Quai Branly Museum, who, in a press interview, said in September: "I always thought, in this particular case, that one day these pieces would return home. I feel this as a normal historical movement, because these objects have been seized under particular circumstances that are now difficult to accept. [...] For these 26 objects returning home, in Benin, will also be the creators of a new bond, which the people of Abomey will build. Let us give him reason by our vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u134	In the general debate, Mr Pascal Bois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u135	Here we are at the final stage of the parliamentary examination of this text, which, I would briefly remind you, contains two derogations from the principle of the inalienability of national collections, allowing the return of cultural property to the Republic of Senegal and the Republic of Benin respectively. These cultural objects were previously the subject of historical studies and research by the museums and curators concerned, this mission being essentially the responsibility of these professionals. In addition to this scientific approach, diplomatic efforts have led to the establishment of cooperation in the design of exhibition venues, as well as the training of curators to ensure the preservation and security of collections in the long term. The exemplary seriousness of this work is commensurate with the significance of these restitutions, a sign of friendship with Africa: reparation for an injustice, because these objects had been removed from their country of origin; an act of confidence in African youth, thus regaining the opportunity to gain access to its heritage. Returning to the text, the majority group would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, whose work has allowed us to deepen the notions of universal heritage and the circulation of works, which are very interesting subjects. Until it was re-educated in the Senate, this bill was consistently voted on unanimously. We have enriched it by incorporating amendments from the opposition and retaining some of the amendments made by the Senate. On the other hand, we did well to oppose the retention of Article 3, the content of which deviated from the purpose of the text and which led to the failure of the CMP and then, again, to the veto of senators. The latter did not bother to reconsider the text in committee or at the sitting: its rejection on Tuesday was caused de facto by procedural motions. We regret this attitude all the more because article 3, re-establishing a recently abolished body because it could not prove its efficiency, would have seemed to us both useless and inadequate. As we have said many times, I will not go back to that. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I would like to invite you to focus on the current drafting of this bill, which affirms two principles: the processing of restitution requests on a case-by-case basis; the allocation of this prerogative to the executive and legislative powers alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u136	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u137	We have come to the end of the legislative process of the text on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal. This route, which was supposed to be a long, quiet river, has finally experienced many perpetuations, and unfortunate initiatives have come to disrupt the discussion of a text which was agreed among us and on which the Joint Joint Committee should have reached an agreement. Indeed, the Senate had barely completed its consideration of this bill at first reading that the Government announced the loan, with a view to its restitution, of the decorative crown overtaking the dais of the last Queen of Madagascar, Ranavalona III. This new fact of the prince caused trouble: while we were discussing very precise restitutions, we were told new ones! It is a violation of the principle of the inalienability of public collections, to which the group The Republicans are very attached and have sought to recall in this text. We would like to see it reaffirmed, as well as the principles of non-rescriptibility and non-receptability of collections. The definitive return, as I have already said, is only one of the possible solutions. A cultural property may indeed travel, be the subject of a loan, a deposit, a temporary restitution or be digitized in order to circulate in this form. Why do you insist on making restitutions, except to obey the Prince's fact? A prince who draws generously from the public collections, which, under our Republic, do not belong to him and are governed by principles enshrined in the Heritage Code – the very one that Emmanuel Macron wanted to do without regarding the renovation of Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris... Fortunately, the National Commission on Heritage and Architecture has succeeded in making the President of the Republic, who, through a skilful communication, has given himself all the credit for this renunciation. This example illustrates the need for expert bodies to oppose, if necessary, the sometimes too eager ambitions of the executive. In this area, it would have been interesting, as the Senate proposed, to set up a national council to reflect on the movement and return of cultural goods from outside Europe. No, Madam Minister, such an institution would not be useless! It alone could in the future effectively defend the principle of inalienability in the face of multiple attacks by the executive. It alone would prevent your ministry from being under the control of the diplomatic cell of the Elysée. Through its multidisciplinary scientific competence and legal competence, the National Council was a balanced proposal, which should have been adopted without difficulty. Article 3, providing for its creation, has unfortunately been deleted in our Assembly by the presidential majority; It is sorely lacking at a time when we have to take a final decision on this text. At first reading, the Republican Group had supported the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal. I repeat, the announcement of the loan, with a view to its restitution, of the crown of the dais of the Malagasy queen, a few hours after the passage of the bill by the Senate, was another example of contempt for the work of the de facto parliamentarians of the prince. She came to sow the trouble in a so-called soothing debate. In view of this incident, it is no longer possible to envisage the restitution of these cultural property without reaffirming the principle of inalienability. In the absence of Article 3, establishing the National Council for Reflection on the Movement and Return of Extra-European Cultural Property, the majority of the Republicans will therefore be able to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u138	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u139	It is with great pleasure that I find you in this Chamber because the final reading of this text gives me the opportunity to recall that the question of the restitution of cultural property joins that, more fundamental, of our report to the African continent: if this text questions our common history, it must above all create a new partnership relationship, in rupture with the tormented and critical era of "Françafrique". Restitution is a way to enshrine the right to the heritage of African peoples, to allow them to re-approve part of their history and to make amends honorable for part of ours. To restore is to give young generations a new foundation on which to build their future with greater confidence. In 2017, in his speech in Ouagadougou, the President of the Republic launched a new dynamic. The Head of State, clearly breaking with the French doctrine on the subject, hoped that the African heritage would be "developed in Paris, but also in Dakar, Lagos, Cotonou". Therefore, we, French politicians, are committed to this mission: here we translate this intention into action. Because it is part of a path that we support, the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and Related Democrats will vote in favour of this bill. However, as we have pointed out in previous readings, this text, covering a list of specific objects, provides an immediate and ad hoc response. It would therefore be necessary to go further and reflect on the drafting of a framework law initiating a reform of the legal regime for such refunds, in order to make it simpler, more readable, more fluid, and less dependent on political hazards. This work will have to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the requirement to preserve the heritage of French museums and, on the other hand, more frequent and less complex restitutions to be carried out. It would address all the themes surrounding this subject, starting with the strengthening of access to African museums, the training of their curators and restorers of works of art, and the facilitation of the circulation of works and the dialogue between museums and museums. None of these issues are addressed in the text that we are about to adopt. In order to draw the contours of this framework law, we could unite all the vigour of our assembly around parliamentary tasks which are of course the responsibility of the Committee on Foreign Affairs but also, in particular, of cultural affairs and education. I have already made this proposal in previous readings of this text, and my determination to make use of it is further strengthened when I see how much time and energy Parliament has had to devote to the restitution of only 27 works. Are we ready for legislation to be required every time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u140	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u141	In order to reach this final vote, it must have been known that Mr Kerlogot's excellent reports had resulted in extensive work and hearings; It took a debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, two in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and three in open session. In this regard, I welcome the creation of a unit comprising the ministries responsible for culture, research and foreign affairs: this inter-ministerial character will enable it to encompass all aspects of restitution procedures. Conversely, the Dem Group opposed the creation of an advisory board, proposed by the Senate. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] This bill could have provided us with the opportunity, through culture, to set the stage for a new conception of French policy for Africa, in other words, to go beyond the notion of restitution to form a sincere and equitable partnership, based on mutual trust with African states and museums. Even more than too slow and political renditions, this new partnership vision would allow Africans to re-approve their history, glory and genius of their ancestors: this is indeed the primary intention of this bill, responding to the will expressed in 2017 by the President of the Republic. The initiative we are taking this morning is therefore decisive in many respects, but it cannot remain in the draft stage; We call on the Commission to give it its full dimension quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u142	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u143	It took three debates in the Chamber, not counting a few hours of work in committee, to reach a consensus on this text adopted unanimously at first reading, but on which there was ultimately no agreement between the two assemblies. We have discussed, exchanged our arguments and shared a number of criticisms on the form, on the choice of legislative vehicle, which can be challenged: indeed, once these refunds have been carried out – which we are pleased with – what response would be given to other States which, legitimately or not, would make similar requests? The choice of case-by-case treatment, led by the Head of State of any kind, in the context of diplomatic relations, may give rise to doubt. The solution of this future law of exception does not, therefore, fully satisfy our requirements for transparency and coherence; On the other hand, it involves the parliamentary debate, which obviously cannot but agree with us. The substance of this bill, to which he intends to respond, is of great cultural and symbolic importance to the Socialist and related group. We have already discussed at length the purpose of these refunds. History doesn't fix itself; It analyses and understands itself, it shapes us, lives us and serves us as a compass so that we do not repeat the same mistakes, in order to do better, otherwise. The colonial past of our Western democracies does not go without scars; Even if that is not what we are talking about this morning, it is necessarily at the origin of a number of difficulties or disagreements between us. What these objects will bring to the women and men to whom we address them in their country of origin, we cannot accurately describe it: consolation, pleasure in contemplation or support of a new educational will of the governments concerned. Nevertheless, the principle of their return to the continent where they were conceived would be difficult to challenge. Of course, to see them leave the magnificent Quai Branly museum saddens us, and even worries some of us, but it does not question the role of our museums or the provisions of the heritage code, as the minister mentioned. The principles that allowed us to build our collections remain and must guide our reflections. It would probably not have been useless for a small committee to be set up in our society or even in our assembly, taking the time necessary for scientific or historical debates. Perhaps we will have to look again at these less anodistic issues than they seem, because it is a question of betting on a bond of trust, of making restitutions the element of renewed cooperation and of accompanying the efforts of cultural democratisation and the reappropriation of a perhaps soothing memory, sharing our know-how and participating in the valorisation of universal values against exacerbated and obtuse nationalisms. For, while we know the complexity of the analysis of the path of these objects to our museums and the difficulty of taking a definitive and unilateral look at these intertwined stories, it remains nevertheless that the unconscionable capture of these riches, which, at other times, managed to find justifications, now questions us and commits us not only to reconsider, in the light of the expertise of historians and museum curators, the course of these works and the constitution of the collections in France, in Europe and on all continents, but also to work on the validity and the ineffectiveness of the treaties in the legal arsenal. It should be noted that France has not resumed the process of ratification of the 1995 UNIDROIT Convention – the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law – on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural Property, while a common reflection on these issues may have a certain interest. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] That's where we're at. I would like to follow closely with our rapporteur the application of these restitution measures and, if necessary, alert national representation to possible malfunctions. For the time being, the Socialist and Related Group welcomes the step we are taking on the path of constructive dialogue with the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal: it will vote for the third time in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u144	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u145	This morning we come to the conclusion of the consideration of the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal. I commend all the actors involved on this important issue. This is first of all about you, Madam Minister, but also about my friend and former colleague Franck Riester, your predecessor, who has been manoeuvring on this subject since the announcement of the President of the Republic. I am also thinking of our rapporteur, whose long-term work I have been doing on this subject for several months. The Action Together Group has already had the opportunity to explain all the good that it thought of this initiative, which will make it possible to realize the strong commitments of the President of the Republic to the youth of Africa. This promise is that of a return of cultural works from Africa's heritage, with the ambition of expanding access to a heritage that is, of course, that of humanity but that is specifically addressed to African populations. This will strengthen their access to their history and create a shared and pacified memory between our two continents. What matters, beyond the historical value and quality of the works, is the present and the new relationship that our country intends to forge with Africa. This is an important global approach to reshaping the cultural partnership between France and Africa, based on the transfer of expertise and know-how in heritage matters. The debates, in the course of the parliamentary shuttle, and disagreements with our colleagues in this chamber may have moved us away from what is essential. This text does not endanger the inalienable nature of our public collections or the recognized universality of our museums, since it specifies the derogation of refunds. This is in the best interests of a specific law: national representation must be able to make a systematic decision on the desirability of any restitution of cultural property. I note that our two assemblies share the purpose of this bill and the gesture of friendship between the countries concerned, which are represented by these restitutions. This text also demonstrates the immense quality of our museum conservation policy: it is thanks to the scientific expertise of our curators that we can always fully appreciate the artistic quality and historical significance of these works. The proposed approach does not in any way degrade the universalist vocation of our museums; On the contrary, it demonstrates its full relevance. Far from being impoverished, our country therefore emerges from this generous approach and confidence in its partners. [[Applause on several benches]] The Group of the European People's Party strongly supports this bill, which embraces the present as the future of our diplomatic and cultural relations with these friendly countries, Benin and Senegal. It is on this beautiful symbol of fraternity and friendship between our peoples that I wish you all a very beautiful holiday at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u147	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u148	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u149	I am pleased to be able to intervene on the occasion of the final adoption of this text, an important symbol of France's cooperation with the African continent and of our common will to deepen our relations. For I believe that after lengthy and good debates, there is only one thing to remember: none of us can oppose the restitution of these cultural property. We all want any people to have access to the works and objects that make up their culture, and it is on this point of agreement that it is important to insist. The Senate wanted to broaden the debate to the broader framework of restitutions by creating an independent body of study and advice. The majority chose to refuse the establishment of such a body, considering it ineffective, which may have offended some of our colleagues on these benches. This text may not have been made to resolve this issue definitively, and we welcome the fact that the Senate did not wish to reopen the debate. However, minister, this question that honourable senators wanted to ask remains open: our discussions must lead to broader reflection. Indeed, parliamentarians do not feel sufficiently associated with the cultural diplomacy of France or with the work done when the possibility of rendering such works is being studied. If the inter-ministerial work has been and should be welcomed, it would certainly be beneficial to keep Members of Parliament, the majority as opposed, better informed. I tell you this with all the more conviction that we will certainly have to examine, by the end of the legislature, a similar text concerning the crown of Queen Ranavalona III, recently lent to Madagascar. Finally, the IDU and independent group welcomes the fact that France agrees to look at its history and that of the world without trial, without a priori, in order to cooperate with many States that seek to reassemble their own pieces. However, if we are to help them better understand their past, it is also very important that we help them prepare for their future, because our common history continues to be written. Therefore, IDU and independent Members will of course support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u150	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u151	Because it is global, the problem of restitution of works of art cannot be solved by the Prince. It concerns both Africa and Europe, with the demands of Greece in particular, and the Middle East, with the demands of Iraq, and many others. Africa wants to re-approve its history and make culture one of its development axes. To this end, some African countries have decided to demand the restitution of works they believe to be their property. If one can consider that the plundering of African works by the colonial powers of the time is an undeniable fact, one must not forget, here as elsewhere in the world, other vectors of endogenous disseminations of works of art, such as the change of beliefs, representation of the living, and other spiritual and artistic evolutions. This is how the history of humanity goes: the legality of the war spoils of 1892 strikes us, today, rightly. In this historical perspective, we must place in mirror the abuses of colonial troops and the practice of slavery of King Behanzin. The restitution of works of art cannot be based on repentance. It is about building new relations with the peoples of the world, especially those of Africa, based on mutual respect for our collective intelligences. Museum universality means that one can have access to the most diverse heritage collections from all over the world, thus assuming a cultural function of awakening. This relationship to the universality of access to works of art presupposes reciprocity. It is certainly much easier to contemplate the jewels of African art in western capitals than in museums in Africa. The circulation of works often forgets their original territory. One can thus wonder about the merits of loans of works of art whose recipients claim ownership. It is claimed that France was the saver of African art by returning collections to Hexagon. However, at the time of the plundering of the twenty-six statuettes, the kingdom of Dahomey was equally capable of this preservation. Although it is true that the African continent, with the exception of a few strong places, lacks the means and infrastructure to host major exhibitions, this is in no way a definitive impediment to the return of African art to its home. I have studied the report on the situation of African objects held in France, written by Bénédicte Savoy of the Collège de France and Felwine Sarr of the Gaston-Berger University of Saint-Louis in Senegal. He advocates a very bold programme of restitution of cultural property, but the reality tells us that the majority of African countries do not want this magnitude of restitution – Congo, for example, does not want to express any request for restitution. So, do we have to return? Although the concept is laudable and well justified, there is the legal question of the inalienability of national collections, as well as the question of the legitimacy of applications for ownership and the need to reserve refunds to public institutions. Private collections are excluded from the scope of the restitution phenomenon. One can observe, for example, that one of the thrones of King Béhanzin, exposed in Benin, belongs to a Franco-Beninian private foundation very favorable to the restitution process; One might imagine that, combining words with deeds, this private foundation would donate this exceptional heritage to the Beninese state. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Your haste in this dossier of restitution has disturbed many African states, which see the opening of a box of Pandora whose, like you, they do not understand all the dimensions. Behind this act of contrition is a new communication operation by the Government rather than a broad reflection on relations between France and African States.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u152	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u153	In June 1978, in his historic appeal for the restitution of cultural property, Mr. Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow, then Director General of UNESCO – the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization – said a few words: "The genius of a people finds one of its most noble incarnations in the cultural heritage which, over the centuries, constitutes the work of its architects, sculptors, painters, engravers or goldsmiths, of all the creators of forms that have been able to give it a tangible expression in its multiple beauty and uniqueness. » However, researchers estimate that 90% of Africa's heritage would be outside the continent. Nearly 88,000 works from sub-Saharan Africa are currently preserved in French public collections. These acquisitions of mass were one of the dimensions, among others, of the crushing of peoples...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u154	Not always.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u155	... and the destruction of cities, at the heart of the colonial conquest by European societies. Behind this systematic spoliation, there was not only a curiosity of the colonizers about Africa; There was also the will to remove from these peoples all that could make culture, to remove all that, in the words of Mbow, is the incarnation of the "genius of a people." Some Europeans have therefore been able to say that they are societies without history. The deprivation of these works has been a double trauma for African peoples. They were stripped of irreplaceable masterpieces...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u156	We saved them, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u157	...but also of all that, around the works, can constitute the historical memory nourishing thought and creation, and allowing each people to know each other better and to understand each other better. The restitution of works is therefore paramount and salutary. This is a first step in establishing what Felwine Sarr, co-author of the report on the restitution of African heritage, calls "a new relational ethic between the West and Africa based on mutual respect and reciprocity". As you know, the GDR Group has for many years expressed its desire to see the movement of refunds increase. This means continuing the work carried out by UNESCO and our museums to ensure the protection of these works in the public domain and their accessibility to all peoples attached to them. In order to do so, we must ensure full cooperation with the States involved in this endeavour. We also believe that the return movement of goods must be accompanied by a major fight against the international traffic in works of art, in order to miss its purpose. On the other hand, refunds are only a starting point. According to philosopher Achille Mbembe, "Europe [...] has taken things [to Africa] that it will never be able to restore" and, "for new bonds to be established, it will have to honor the truth, for truth is the teacher of responsibility". Also, I want to emphasize the need to shed light on all the stories of works returned or preserved in our museums. We must know and tell under what conditions each was taken, by whom, in what context, and what historical discourses were built about it. This calls for the continuation of the work of many of our museums, for a rethinking of how history is built there and how it is transmitted, so that we can continue to decolonize our thoughts and get to know each other better. Bénédicte Savoy, co-author of the report on the restitution of African heritage, speaking in 2018 about the necessary work of truth and what it produces about us, invited us to take an interest not only in the meaning of a work but also in the context in which it was acquired. This does not mean repentance, but knowledge; and self-knowledge is the goal of the future. I do not withdraw anything from the words of several colleagues who have said, during the examination of the text, that parliamentarians must not only be involved in the refunds, but must always be involved in them. This is essential and will need to be ensured in the future. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We are obviously in favour of the text and we will vote in favour. If the path of decolonization remains long, this morning's vote will be a step towards the restoration of more balanced international relations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u158	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u159	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u160	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 50 Number of votes cast 48 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 48 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u161	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u162	After considering such an important bill, I thank all the Members who participated in the debate, especially the rapporteur, Yannick Kerlogot, who did a remarkable job, and everyone agreed. In a word, I would like to reply to a reproach from several benches, which I do not think reflect the genesis of the restitution of a work. Some spoke of "the Prince's fact." What, then, is the event in which restitution takes place? This is not a decision of the President of the Republic; It's a request from a Head of State, African or Oceanian.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u163	It's specious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u164	In this case, the operative event was the request made by the Beninese Head of State to the French President – who was François Hollande at the time. Criticizing the Prince's fact therefore amounts to being extremely derogatory to the African Head of State who is asking for restitution, I would like to point it out to you. The President of the Republic, in his speech in Ouagadougou, welcomed this request, expressing his benevolent interest. Although happy that he could, as Head of State, therefore Head of French diplomacy, respond favourably to the request of another Head of State. How to qualify his behavior if he acted otherwise? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Then Parliament, the only one empowered to decide on restitution, was seized. So there is no fact of the prince. Stop using an argument that is not based on any legal or historical basis and that does not in any way reflect the conduct of the President of the Republic. It's pure controversy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u165	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u166	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u167	The next item is the discussion, for final reading, of the draft law on the extension of Chapters VI to X of Title II of Book II and of Article L. 851-3 of the Code of Internal Security (adopted text No. 498).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u168	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u169	I am very pleased to be with you this morning for the final reading of the bill extending the major provisions of the Internal Security Code in order to protect the French from the terrorist threat. This text, ladies and gentlemen, you are debating it for the third time. No agreement was reached in the Joint Joint Committee at the end of the first reading or at the end of the new reading. In the Senate on Monday afternoon, for the next reading, I found that the positions on which the Government and the Assembly had joined did not win a favourable vote, which I regret. However, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, Ms Yaël Braun-Pivet, and the rapporteur, Mr Didier Paris, for the quality of their work, as well as all the Members with whom we debated and built this bill. The Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, entrusted me with the task of associating him with these thanks. Our conviction is that the provisions that the Government proposes to extend, which were previously adopted to leave the state of emergency, remain fully valid. The tools put in place by the so-called SILT law – strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism – guarantee a balance between the effectiveness of counter-terrorism action and the preservation of freedoms. They have enabled the counter-terrorism services to continue to have an effective and responsive legislative framework after the end of the state of emergency in 2017. Similarly, the Government has made reasonable use of the so-called "algorithm" technique. The parliamentary delegation to intelligence was the recipient of a classified defence confidential report that describes the nature of the operational contribution of these automated processes. Counter-terrorism measures have been implemented under the close supervision of the judicial judge and the administrative judge, and for some of them, following the advice of the National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques, which is always followed by the Government. All these mechanisms are also subject to continuous exchange with Parliament, in the form of real-time information and regular evaluation, to which the Government has strictly submitted itself. The debate in both chambers has focused heavily on the issue of timing. I consider it important, with regard to provisions as fundamental as the balance between the freedoms of the French and the fight against terrorism in order to ensure their security, to further improve these texts and to do so, above all by taking into account all the necessary lights. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Latomb also applauds]] In any case, the extension of the experiment does not prevent us and does not prevent the services from working. Taking into account the dates that the Assembly has chosen for the extension that it has proposed, the Government will therefore introduce a new bill that will, I am sure – at any rate I wish – be an opportunity to debate on the substance of these essential subjects concerning both the fundamental freedoms and the security of the country in the face of the terrorist threat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u170	I call Mr Didier Paris, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u171	Since the beginning of the examination of the text, the disagreement between the majority of the Assembly and that of the Senate has focused more on how to perpetuate the measures of the SILT law than on the objective of protecting our fellow citizens, which undoubtedly unites us all. For our part, we are clearly in favour of the sustainability of security perimeters, the administrative closure of places of worship, individual administrative control and surveillance measures and house visits. However, we put one condition in it: the organisation of a substantive debate in Parliament, which will allow us to draw all the lessons learned from the measures taken since 2017, to analyse in full transparency their operational nature and possibly their weaknesses, to check whether the long-term proportionality between efficiency and public freedoms is well respected, and finally to perpetuate the monitoring and information procedures of the Parliament laid down in the SILT law, which we consider indispensable in a state governed by the rule of law. On the basis of our discussions, we should consider either substantial changes or simple parametric adjustments to the text. The monitoring mission carried out by our colleagues Yaël Braun-Pivet, Éric Ciotti and Raphaël Gauvain, whose conclusions we examined yesterday in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, gives us some suggestions for improvement, a few recommendations that will undoubtedly feed our debates. Of course, we will also need to know the substance of the Government's intentions and to compare our views. On the other hand, we are opposed to any abandonment of the administrative police measures proposed by a part of the left which, in the name of certain principles, would endanger France in the face of a constant and strong threat. But we're just as opposed, I'm not going back,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u172	You'll have to think about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u173	...a dry and undisputed sustainability of the measures in question, as proposed by the Senate. In the same vein, while the terrorist threat undoubtedly remains strong, it remains diffuse and does not, at least at this stage, legitimize a state of emergency that cannot in any way constitute a permanent state of exercise of power. In the present state of analysis, those of the Government as well as those resulting from parliamentary control, we must remain with the solution adopted by our assembly, namely to extend the provisions of the SILT law until 31 July 2021. This is an ambitious but imperative date before finally incorporating such important provisions into our common law. Nevertheless, we will undoubtedly need to fight political Islam, which ideologically armes the perpetrators of attacks. This is one of the objectives of the bill that reinforces republican principles, for which we have just created a special commission bringing together Members of Parliament from all walks of life. Similarly, in one text or another, but very quickly, we will have to resolve the question of strengthening the administrative and judicial control of those who leave prison, which must be significantly strengthened. The second part of the text concerns the so-called "algorithmic" intelligence techniques of the July 2015 law. Improving the control of data exchanges is a major challenge for tracking judicial leads, detecting more or less strong signals of radicalisation and being able to prevent the transition to action. Of course, intelligence is primarily a human issue, and the Government has been working extensively over the past three years to strengthen this component. However, intelligence is made more difficult by the increase in the volume of exchanges, the encryption of couriers and the extreme difficulty of tracing unknown and unlisted individuals. In this context, the judgments delivered on 6 October by the Court of Justice of the European Union present us with serious difficulties. We will have to wait for the judicial translation that the Council of State will make of it, work on the substance of the protection of national sovereignty as well as the settlement of the issue made even more delicate of the preservation of personal data. That is why we agree with our colleagues in the Senate to extend this part of the Intelligence Act until December 31, 2021. [[Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chair of the Law Committee, applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that you continue with the text adopted by the Assembly in agreement with the Government, which allows us to maintain the level of fight against the terrorist threat, within the framework of the rule of law, and to prepare any adjustments to the administrative police and intelligence arrangements that we may need.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u174	In the general debate, Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u175	This bill, which we are considering for final reading, is intended to extend the provisions of the Act of 30 October 2017 strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, and to extend the provisions relating to algorithms resulting from the Intelligence Act of 24 July 2015. As we all know on these benches, the terrorist threat remains maximum, as illustrated by the dramatic events of recent weeks, particularly in Nice. With 270 victims of terrorism since 2012, we are on the "long tragic path" described by one of the bosses of the French intelligence services before the commission of inquiry on the surveillance of jihadist channels and individuals. In this context, however, we are merely extending the provisions of the SILT Act. Of course, this extension is necessary and Members of the Republican Group will vote for the text. If we did not, then France would be totally disarmed. Nevertheless, the measures of the SILT law, including Eric Ciotti, I recall, is the implementing rapporteur alongside Raphaël Gauvain and Yaël Braun-Pivet, although useful, are not up to the threat that continues to weigh on the country. The figures are explicit: there were 369 MICA – individual administrative control and surveillance measures – 8 closures of places of worship and 384 house visits as at 4 December, compared with 754 house arrest, 19 closures of places of worship and 4469 administrative searches during the state of emergency. The Government's action is too often erratic and lacks a clear guideline. This is particularly true with regard to home visits, of which only about 30 had been carried out from the beginning of 2020 until the wave of terrorist attacks in October. Since then, prefects have made more requests in seven weeks than in three years. The observation is without appeal: the degree of protection has deteriorated considerably while the threat does not weaken, on the contrary. The SILT law, between rigidification of the framework and mitigation of protection, is not appropriate. It is our responsibility to protect our citizens and adapt our legal arsenal to the reality of the threat. At the same time, let us have the courage to change our fundamental law. The recent censorship by the Constitutional Council of the provisions of the law introducing security measures against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence – a text intended to protect, albeit timidly, society against radicalised prisoners – is the last illustration of its inadaptation and the naivety of its jurisprudence. We must stop considering the individual freedoms of Islamist terrorists as superior to collective security and finally put in place genuine mechanisms for the protection of society against terrorism: administrative detentions, security detentions, systematic expulsions of criminals representing a threat, control of social networks. So, on such essential issues that involve and affect the security of the French, we naturally need to go beyond the traditional political divisions. That is why, Madam Minister Delegate, the Republican Group has consistently supported the legislation that strengthens the security of the French who have been submitted to the Assembly in recent years. We'll do it again this morning. Jean-Jacques Rousseau said: "Every free State where the great crises have not been foreseen is at every storm in danger of perishing. To date, however, there are no plans to apply the necessary precautionary principle. We hope that your spirit of responsibility will lead you to remedy this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u176	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u177	The Act of 30 October 2017 strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism entrusted the administrative authority with legal means to prevent acts of terrorism. For example, four chapters were added to the Internal Security Code, relating to the scope of protection, the closure of places of worship, individual administrative control and surveillance measures, as well as home visits and seizures. These tools, although applied unevenly across territories, are still very useful in the face of a threat that remains very serious in our country. Recent terrorist acts are here to remind us, if necessary. As the Deputy Minister pointed out, since 2007, 132 attacks have been foiled, including one in January 2020, thanks to the intelligence services, which are doing outstanding work, as well as to the administrative authorities, which are applying, in conjunction with the judges, the provisions added to the Internal Security Code. We must continue our efforts to prevent terrorism and, to that end, our legislative work must live up to the challenges. For this reason, the Dem Group considers it essential to extend the time limits for Articles 1 to 4 of the SILT Law, concerning, respectively, the perimeters of protection, the closure of places of worship, the individual administrative control and supervision measures – the famous MICAS – as well as home visits. This will give us the time to prepare for the necessary substantive debate that we must have with a view to the possible sustainability of these measures. We have not been able to agree on a joint text with the Senate, and I regret that. However, I have noted that our assembly has no substantive divergence with the Senate but essentially a divergence with respect to the method: the National Assembly is advocating the extension of the provisions while the Senate is in favour of an extension with amendments. For our group, any changes must be considered in the context of the future debate. In fact, the report of the Committee on Laws, which was presented to us yesterday by the chairman of the committee and by our colleagues Éric Ciotti and Raphaël Gauvain, contains certain proposals which correspond to the changes desired by the Senate. I am thinking, for example, of the extension of the administrative closure of related places to places of worship. I believe that we must be able to respect every legislative time. We will have this debate, but we must first extend the measures of the SILT Act. We will have this debate, in particular, to move the texts towards a balance that will strengthen the security of our fellow citizens while preserving their freedom; You know how much our group is committed to this balance. Moreover, in our internal legislation, it is essential to draw all the consequences of the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the regime for the retention of personal data, in particular the confirmation of the Tele2 judgment, which I have often mentioned in this Chamber. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The Dem Group will vote in favour of this text because it is an indispensable step in the future debate that we will have in the very near future to strengthen internal security and prevent acts of terrorism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u178	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u179	This text, which we are discussing in final reading, has now been recalled and is extending the application of legislation on the monitoring and prevention of terrorism until 31 July 2021. As a reminder, these provisions were derived respectively from the laws of 24 July 2015 and 30 October 2017, known as the SILT Act. They were provisionally adopted and were to cease to produce their effects as of 31 December 2020, and we are there; They will therefore be extended for a period of six months if this text is adopted after our discussions. What's this about? These are primarily legislative provisions allowing for the establishment of perimeters of protection, the closure of places of worship, individual administrative and surveillance measures, visits and seizures. These measures are strictly limited as they must be part of the prevention of acts of terrorism. Secondly, it is necessary to extend the experimental mechanism of the Internet monitoring algorithm, always with the same aim of combating terrorism. From a legal point of view, this extension does not raise any particular difficulties. In its opinion on the subject, the Council of State concluded that the extension of these measures did not require any comments on its part. The Constitutional Council itself, seized through QPC – a priority issue of constitutionality – considered these provisions to be in conformity with the requirements of constitutional value. Since the first reading, the Socialist and Related Group has chosen not to oppose this extension of exceptional measures to combat terrorism. However, he will be particularly vigilant in the future, that is, when drafting a law that will be in place for the duration: we will be keen to ensure that the exceptional remains exceptional and that Parliament remains regularly informed about the application of these types of measures and their relevance. Measures in violation of freedoms can only remain in force as they are strictly proportionate to the objectives pursued in the fight against terrorism and especially as they are adapted to the present circumstances. The fact that Parliament is regularly consulted in order to decide on their extension is, in the end, a good way for the representatives of the nation to ensure that their duration of application is indeed justified. It is a matter of exercising our role in monitoring the Government's actions in the drafting of laws. The agreement between the National Assembly and the Senate in a joint joint committee was concluded on this provisional nature. The National Assembly considered this to be a piece of legislation, pending a substantive law in 2021. The Senate, for its part, called for the sustainability of these measures. Our preference is clearly on the side of the provisional nature of the latter, which makes it possible to ensure that, on the way forward, the provisions adopted yesterday are always adapted to today's situation. Thus, we will not oppose this text but wish to affirm our will to ensure strict respect for the rights and freedoms protected by our constitutional texts today and in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u180	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u181	The news sadly reminded us that covid-19 was not the only danger to the lives of the French. Terrorism and its deadly ideology persist; That is why we must remain vigilant and give our administration, our police and intelligence services all the necessary tools to prevent these attacks. Indeed, the terrorist threat has never really disappeared and remains high in our country: 22000 people are registered in the register of reports for the prevention of radicalization of a terrorist character, of which 8000 with an active record. Section 1 of the Bill is intended to extend certain measures introduced on a temporary basis by the SILT Act. Four types of measures are concerned: the protection perimeters to ensure the safety of major events; the closure of places of worship; individual administrative control and surveillance measures; home visits. Article 2 relates to the intelligence technique known as the "algorithm". Our two assemblies converge on the need to extend the experimental phase until 31 December 2021, with a view to a broader parliamentary debate on the reform of the intelligence law. In 2020, eighty-three prisoners convicted of terrorist acts were released and 12 will be released by the end of the year. In 2021, sixty-four more will be released. Under the Act of 30 October 2017, these individuals can be subject to an individual administrative control and supervision measure. This provision has succeeded the house arrest of the state of emergency and requires, inter alia, three weekly marks. At the end of March 2020, approximately 50 MICASs were in force and almost 80 per cent were for prison leavers. Prison leavers are also monitored by the intelligence services. Prior to the release of radicalized prisoners, prison intelligence provides the DGSI – Directorate General of Internal Security – with end-of-incarceration reporting notes. Monitoring is then carried out. The three algorithms whose experimentation was decided by the law of 24 July 2015 may prove to be major allies for our intelligence services. With respect to section 1, our honourable senators wish to maintain the temporary arrangements provided for in the SILT Act. If we are all here to fight terrorism more effectively, we must refrain from any hasty decision. Putting measures originally derived from the state of emergency regime into common law, without any substantive debate, would send a disastrous image of our democracy. So, yes, it is fundamental to extend the implementation of these measures until 31 July 2021, but with the prospect of a debate, as promised by the Government in the first half of 2021. With regard to the measure concerning the administrative closures of places of worship, we note that in article 44 of the draft law, which reinforces the observance of the principles of the Republic, this mechanism resulting from the regime of the state of terrorism emergency is introduced into the ordinary law. A real substantive debate can therefore take place within the framework of this forthcoming law, and we will pay attention to it. The regime provided for in section 44 of this new bill is even stricter than that of the SILT law since it provides for the closure of places of worship but also of all premises dependent on these places; We will be vigilant, during the debates on this text, as to the proportionality of the violation of freedom of worship. With regard to article 2, on the one-year extension of the intelligence technique, this text responds to the original draft law and the need for 31 December 2021. This deadline would enable us, by getting to work now, to improve these provisions, bearing in mind, on the one hand, the terrorist threat and, on the other hand, the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 6 October. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] This text seems to us to be as balanced as it is necessary. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote for it as a matter of responsibility. In conclusion, I wish all of you a very beautiful holiday year-end.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u182	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u183	On this bill extending certain measures of administrative police and intelligence in order to combat terrorism, a three-pronged choice was open to us: to perpetuate the measures; to let the experiment come to an end; to prolong the experiment. The first option was not satisfactory. Indeed, in the light of the health context and of our agenda, which is already completely congested, it is not possible to legislate in haste on such measures, which are particularly derogatory to ordinary law. The second option was not possible either. It would have been totally irresponsible to leave our law enforcement forces destitute in the face of the terrorist threat. Thus, by default, but wisely, we have chosen the third and last option: to extend the experiment of these measures in order to foresee a debate in the near future under more serene conditions. Our group has carefully considered the Senate's position to sustain the measures from now on. We understand this wish, given the recent context of the resurgence of the terrorist threat, but it would have given a completely different dimension to this bill, the terms of which could not be agreed upon. As a result of the continuing disagreement with the Senate, we are taking a final reading on the last text voted here. This allows us to extend until 31 July 2021 various devices, such as the setting up of perimeters of protection, the closure of places of worship and the whole scope of individual administrative control and surveillance measures: declaration of the movements of individuals, electronic bracelet, visits and seizures at home, or administrative detention. As far as intelligence is concerned, it extends for one year, until 31 December 2021, the experiment of the technique allowing the identification on the Internet of possible connections to dangerous sites. As we have already described, the IDU and independent group adheres to these extensions. But let us not forget that the administrative police measures, as well as the individual administrative control and surveillance measures in question, are the result of a state of security emergency. It is therefore not simply a matter of lightly considering a question of date. Discussion of these measures should take place as soon as possible. Extensions provided for in this project must stop on target dates. Such important arrangements cannot remain for a long time in the legal interplay of experimentation, which is hardly suitable for processes, and we commit ourselves to finding a delicate balance to ensure the best security for our citizens. We also reiterate that Parliament's control is a sine qua non for the allocation of these various prerogatives to the executive. On this point, there can be no compromise; Parliament cannot remain a passive informant. Subject to these remarks, the independent UDI Group will vote in favour of this text, without presage of the forthcoming debate on the substance of the measures. In my turn, I take the opportunity to wish you all a very beautiful holiday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u184	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u185	We will oppose this extension, I say it in white, without going by four paths, and I will explain why. First of all, we had already opposed the introduction of the law on internal security and the fight against terrorism, which translated measures of the state of emergency into ordinary law. If only this philosophy, transposing exceptional measures into the common law, presented us with a major problem. In addition, we are proposed here to extend two things: both the measures of the SILT law and those of the intelligence law of 2015, with its famous black boxes. I'll start with the black boxes. That has been said by the Deputy Minister, since the mechanism is analysed in a report that is classified as a confidential defence, I do not know what it contains. As a good parliamentarian, I am therefore supposed to believe on word my colleagues from the majority and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u186	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u187	It's not that trust doesn't reign,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u188	For your part, there is no doubt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u189	...but trust does not exclude control and, in this case, control, it is the nil state. I do not know if I should believe you on the floor and I do not even know whether this document contains all the information necessary for a good assessment. In this regard, there is an urgent need to put in place evaluation mechanisms involving academics and independent representatives of the executive and the majority, able to report to parliamentarians and to judge the relevance of the measures adopted by the Government, and I take this opportunity to stress this point. In this case, it was only through leaks in the press on this confidential report that I was able to start forming an opinion – I take tweezers since I did not read the document. According to the press, this report would indicate that only ten people at risk of terrorism were detected by the famous black boxes for the years 2017 and 2018, and that none of them would have been the subject of an operational and even less judicial file. To the extent that the deployment of black boxes is a time-limited experiment, it could be inferred that the device is not operating. On the contrary, the Government tells us that if the scheme has not produced any convincing results, it is because it does not go far enough: by searching well, perhaps we will find something! In other words, the captures of the black boxes must be extended to the URLs – the Government prepares the ground for the future bill and the substantive discussion scheduled for the first half of 2021. That is the situation I am in as an opposition parliamentarian. Fortunately, there are leaks in the press to inform me of the precise nature of the intelligence devices used! As for the measures provided for in the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, the report presented yesterday in the Committee on Laws is very interesting: all the potential abuses that we have pointed out are verified. The security perimeters are used for reasons of public policy rather than counter-terrorism imperatives. Similarly, it appears that the number of home visits has been very low for two years, and that most of them have resulted in judicializations and responded to operational issues, to say soberly. Finally, following the assassination of Samuel Paty, we returned to the reign of political communication with all-out searches leading to nothing. In total, we are suspended from executive decisions, in which we should have absolute confidence. No! I do not have absolute confidence in the Government, especially for administrative measures, especially if they violate individual and fundamental freedoms, against which the judicial authority constitutes the last bulwark, with the control of the JLD. When the previous Minister of the Interior provided us with his report on these measures, we received two versions of the document – remember, an email was sent to us in error – the first containing the minister's pre-proposals. He proposed, in particular, to limit the control of the judge of freedoms and detention, an objective which obviously had not escaped the attention of the attentive readers. I do not know if this objective will be achieved, but it would be very problematic as it would lead to a great deal of power being given to people in whom I do not place any kind of trust, within the framework of a parliamentary control at least limited. If each of the parliamentary groups had been represented in the parliamentary intelligence delegation, then real information sharing would be possible and we could discuss it equally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u190	Please conclude, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u191	But this is not the case: there are those who know – but what do they really know? – and those who don't know. In this case, what I know is that all these measures violate individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u192	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u193	For the last time, we are considering the bill to extend the first four sections of the Internal Security and Counter-Terrorism Act, known as the SILT, as well as section 25 of the Intelligence Act. The implementation of these legislative provisions aimed at preventing acts of terrorism had indeed been authorized by the legislator until the end of 2020 and we are seriously approaching the deadline. As has been pointed out on several occasions, this request, strictly framed in time, appears justified in view of the backlog in the parliamentary calendar. If the National Assembly had, at first reading, shortened the extension of these measures to six months instead of one year, this delay justifies returning to the initial one-year extension provided for in the bill. However, beyond strictly exceptional measures, we will not accept the pretext of parliamentary bottling to again exempt Parliament from a substantive revision of the relative measures applicable in 2021. We will accept it all the less since, at the moment we are discussing this text, work is under way on the draft law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic, also known as the text against separatism – it seems to me that this type of text should only be examined in a calm period. In the immediate future, we reiterate that we are relieved that the text before us does not contain the provisions of the Senate, rather than simply extending them, to perpetuate all security measures in our law. It should be recalled that these measures allow the Ministry of the Interior to impose different restrictions on persons under the direct control of the administration, such as the prohibition of leaving a municipality or the obligation to point daily at the police station, although they are based on imprecise criteria and information generally derived from white notes. I would also like to take this opportunity to commend the excellent work carried out by the French intelligence services, which are doing what they can, with forces forced, to do to the threats we know. The Liberties and Territories Group has substantial reservations about both the law on strengthening internal security and combating terrorism and the law on intelligence. According to some analyses, the provisions of the SILT law create a non-right zone: the state of emergency regime has been introduced into the ordinary law, with all the defects that this entails from the point of view of respect for human rights. Moreover, there is no indication that these provisions are useful and more effective than those of ordinary law. However, a change in the legal framework is absolutely necessary, and our group will take its full part when the time comes. However, with regard to the intelligence gathering technique known as the "algorithm", the extension of which is provided for in article 2 of the draft law, the National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques also requests a review of the implementation of the legal framework established in 2015. In addition, appeals are pending before the European courts. The Government must draw the consequences of the decisions to be handed down by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Referred to several questions of constitutionality relating to the retention of data, the Court made various recommendations. In the end, the Liberties and Territories Group confirms that it will vote for the extension of the measures concerned but will be particularly vigilant when considering their substance in a few months' time. Mr President, knowing you very much in love with Jacques Chirac, I will end with Charles Pasqua's magnificent quote: "Democracy stops where the reason for the state begins. I wish you great endings of the year!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u194	I don't know if I'm in love with Jacques Chirac, but I feel an unwavering admiration for him! Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u195	No one here, I believe, underestimates the terrorist threat that regularly strikes our country and that has hit it very hard in recent weeks, with the attack on the Basilica of Nice and the barbaric assassination of Samuel Paty. No one here is thinking of becoming accustomed to this threat, and the perpetrators of these acts, or those who would project new ones, must know that our determination to hunt them is proportional to the barbarity that inspires them: we will not let ourselves be intimidated at least in the world. This is what our fellow citizens, who want, everywhere in the territory of the Republic, to be able to come and go without fear for their lives or for the lives of their loved ones. That is also what the republican beliefs and principles that drive us demand. Wherever it comes from, regardless of the extremism or god to which it claims itself, this obscene violence pursues only one goal: to spread in the country the fear and ferments of division, and to destabilize as much as possible the balances of our rule of law. Our common determination must therefore be heard so that our existing critics are taken for what they are: a contribution to a more effective response and not a vain polemic. For years, we have continued to regret that, in the name of fiscal austerity, France has reduced its guard in the security, intelligence and justice sectors – although it should be recognized that, in recent months, the budgetary delays resulting from the cuts of previous years have been somewhat caught up, but unfortunately without placing ourselves at the level required by the threat. In any event, the eradication of terrorism also depends on our ability to lend the flan to the political objectives pursued by our opponents. That is why the extreme firmness of our response must, by definition, be consistent with respect for the separation of powers and the protection of fundamental rights, failing which, and perhaps to our defending body, we give the point to our opponents. However, with this bill extending the measures of the SILT Act, which was originally scheduled to end on 31 December 2020, the Government is unfortunately doing so. On the pretext of exceptional health circumstances, he called on the national representative, in an accelerated procedure and without substantive debate, to extend preventive measures ordered on the basis of mere suspicions, restrictions of liberty, decided by the administrative authority and, for the most part, removed from the judicial judge's control. To be effective, the fight against terrorism would, on the contrary, require that we have a detailed and comprehensive assessment of the effectiveness of these measures and, more broadly, of our anti-terrorism legislative arsenal, made up of laws and regulations that have piled up for thirty years, beyond any assessment. This is all the more essential because the mechanisms sometimes have very serious consequences for our fundamental rights and freedoms. It would probably allow these devices to be better targeted, so that the nets we throw into are fitted with thinner meshes. Measures to combat terrorism are often of very vague application, which obviously reinforces the need for an evaluation. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] To be on the side of efficiency in the fight against terrorism is to be on the side of common law and not of the emergency regime. However, it has become common, in all circumstances, as soon as difficulties arise, to normalize the state of emergency and to anchor emergency measures in ordinary law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u196	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u197	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The GDR Group does not follow you on this path, which not only enshrines the normal functioning of our Rule of Law in intermittentity, but ultimately leads us to never close the parenthesis of the emergency regime again. That is why we will vote against the bill again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u198	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u199	The law of 30 October 2017 strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as "SILT", allowed a controlled exit from the state of emergency regime established after the attacks of 13 November 2015 in Paris. This gradual exit has been achieved thanks to various tools that have since proved their worth, preventing several terrorist actions. These tools ensure the knowledge and monitoring of potentially radicalized individuals. They ensure better prevention of terrorist risks and better protection of the French against the threat. The SILT Act also allowed the extension of an automated processing intelligence technology introduced by the Intelligence Act of 24 July 2015. Thus, following the advice of the National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques, upon the decision of the Prime Minister, electronic communications operators and Internet service providers may now be obliged to use automated processing on their networks to detect connections that may reveal a terrorist threat. In 2017, when the law was passed, given the innovative nature of the measures it contained, the increased police powers it provided for, and the restrictions on freedom it provided to ensure the safety of everyone, we wanted to limit the application of various devices to December 31, 2020, the date before which we planned to re-evaluate the devices. Unfortunately, the health and social crises that we are experiencing are forcing Parliament to react much faster. From now on, the date of 31 July seems the most opportune, hoping that no other major health crisis will be declared in the meantime. In addition, the Government has undertaken to submit a text by the summer in order to incorporate into the common law the mechanisms concerned, which will complete the legal, punitive, intelligence and surveillance arsenal already in place. Moreover, the very recent intervention of a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the regime for the retention of data by operators has led the Government to revise the timetable envisaged in the National Assembly, in order to examine the consequences which should be derived from it in the law. It is regrettable that we have not been able to reach an agreement with the Senate – the legislative procedure is faster than before – but our goal is to achieve the prorogation provided for in this bill. The re-evaluation of these measures is more timely than ever, as they remain eminently necessary. The recent attacks on Conflans-Sainte-Honorine and Nice remind us that the terrorist threat is very high in France. The health crisis, which has been the focus of the minds and work of parliamentarians since the beginning of the year, must not make us forget or neglect the major risk that terrorism poses to our nation. The various enforcement reports submitted to Parliament showed the great interest of the four measures concerned; They stressed in particular their rational use, the legal quality of the decisions taken and their operational contribution. With regard to automated processing intelligence, the co-rapporteurs of the information mission on the assessment of the intelligence law of 24 July 2015, Loïc Kervran and Jean-Michel Mis, highlighted, in their report published in June 2020, "interesting results" and "very promising". They thus considered it "necessary to extend the algorithm technique". While some are trying to put on the presidential red tape, I would like to point out that the parliamentary majority has proposed complementary texts to combat radicalisation and terrorism. That is the whole point of my colleague Laetitia Avia's bill to combat hatred on the Internet. It is no longer to be demonstrated that hate speech on social networks, in particular, amplifies the influence of Islamists and can trigger a transition to terrorist acts in radicalised people. However, the health crisis and the intensified use of social networks have led to an explosion of such hateful content. Similarly, the bill introduced by President Yaël Braun-Pivet and Raphaël Gauvain was intended to introduce security measures against persons convicted of terrorist offences after their sentence. While the Constitutional Council has limited these mechanisms, it has not censored them on the merits since it has not called into question the role of the legislator in "preventing the commission of acts seriously disturbing public order". The majority will never give up on effective solutions. These decisions of the Constitutional Council must be able to serve as a road map to improve devices that we knew were new and therefore perfectable. Last February, the President of the Republic signed an order to combat the financing of terrorist activities, including the obligation for many professions to declare to TRACFIN – processing of intelligence and action against illegal financial channels – the operations which they consider to be at issue. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] In order to continue in this direction and to maintain our vigilance in the face of the terrorist threat, it is necessary to vote for the extension of these legislative measures. It is essential that we have all the necessary capabilities to continue to protect the French against this danger, which is still far too present in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u200	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u201	I put the bill as a whole to the vote as a result of the National Assembly's re-reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, before adjourning the meeting, I wish you and the Minister Delegate, all members of the Government and all the staff and staff of the National Assembly a very good holiday at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-17-O1124.u203	Next sitting, Tuesday, 12 January 2021, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
