ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committees on the draft organic law on the time-limits for the organization of parliamentary and senatorial by-elections (No. 3656) and on the draft law on the time-limits for the organization of municipal by-elections and elections of members of trade union committees (No. 3657). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a joint general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u2	Mrs Catherine Kamowski, rapporteur of the Joint Committees, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u3	Here we come together to finalize two ad hoc bills on the holding of long-awaited by-elections, whether legislative, senatorial or municipal. First of all, I would like to stress that our two chambers have been animated, during their work, by the same desire to defend and maintain the republican organization of our country, guaranteeing that elections necessary for the continuity of our democratic life are held as quickly as possible. Indeed, for the past nine months, we have been more subject to the pace of the covid -19 epidemic than to the pace of our usual electoral deadlines, and we have had to change our electoral calendar several times. These postponement decisions were based on a single consideration: the best possible reconciliation of two principles, that of the sincerity of the vote on the one hand, and that of the preservation of public health on the other. The search for this balance has allowed our two chambers to always agree on a common position, in the interests of candidates and voters. We can therefore all welcome this spirit of dialogue and compromise, and I would like to personally acknowledge the spirit of openness shown by the rapporteur of the Senate, because she has greatly contributed to enabling us to quickly adopt the necessary provisions for the postponement of the various electoral deadlines. The two bills submitted by the Government deal with this very narrow subject-matter. The latter allow for derogations from the general rule of law in order to organise the forthcoming by-elections as soon as the health situation permits and, at the latest, 13 June 2021. At first reading, the Assembly supplemented the Government's provisions on two points. First of all, in committee, we have introduced the possibility, for each agent, of having two power of attorneys instead of one, as provided for by the law in force. We had already adopted this provision for the second round of municipal elections. In addition, we adopted an amendment by the Government, which responded to a request by the commission, allowing the ceiling for campaign expenses to be increased if the duration of the latter was extended. I am pleased that, with regard to these two points, the Senate agrees with the Assembly. It has, moreover, usefully supplemented these provisions by allowing, on the one hand, the JPOs – judicial police officers – to move to the homes of vulnerable persons to establish or withdraw the power of attorneys and, on the other hand, by specifying that the protective equipment of the polling stations would be taken over by the State. I agree with these additions, which include measures that we had already adopted for the second round of municipal elections. In CMP, we agreed on the date until which the vacancy of seats could result in by-elections until June 13. We set it on March 13, 2021, for several reasons. In particular, the Senate has given the Prime Minister or the Prefects the concrete means to effectively organize the relevant by-election, as soon as the health situation permits, explicitly basing this decision on the local epidemiological data that will have to be made public by the RHAs – regional health agencies – every fortnight. This precise and transparent follow-up will enable voters to be summoned as soon as possible in the light of local circumstances. Furthermore, in the event that an elector's request that the election be held would be refused, the Senate has also provided that the latter may refer the matter to the judge for interim measures within 15 days if it considers that the postponement is not justified. There is therefore no longer a risk that the election will be postponed for reasons other than the local epidemiological situation alone. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In conclusion, I would like to highlight the quality of the provisions introduced by the Senate, which make the postponement of by-elections acceptable by allowing the objector to be better objected to or, if necessary, challenged. It seems to me that through the compromise texts that we propose to you, our two assemblies will have done useful work by improving the initial draftings proposed by the Government and by vigorously defending the continuity of our democratic life, the foundation of our common good, of our res publica.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u5	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u6	The debates, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, have allowed us to enrich the two texts proposed by the Government, which I came to present to you last week. The discussions in the Joint Joint Committee enabled a balance to be struck, taking into account, as the rapporteur pointed out, the contributions of the two chambers. I would therefore like first of all to thank you very sincerely for the quality of your work, and to pay particular tribute to the involvement and work of your rapporteur, Mrs Catherine Kamowski, who has made this possible. In the end, the organic and ordinary texts which are presented to your Assembly at the end of the Joint Joint Committee meet, I believe, the common objective we see together: to allow for a lag in the by-elections while setting a clear time limit for the organisation of these elections. The spirit of this peak line, which led to the entire debate that we have had, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, is fully respected in the final text. The special health circumstances, which you all know in this assembly, can thus be well taken into account when organising elections throughout the national territory. In particular, the time of the campaign, this essential time of our democracy – it is not for you, parliamentarians, that I will learn – will be preserved, and the delay of the election will only be effected if the health situation so requires: it is an important clarification, and it seems to me useful to recall it. In addition, you have wanted to add specific modalities relating to the epidemic period that we are going through: the work of the CMP therefore leads to new modalities, such as the dual power of attorney, the increase in the ceiling of campaign spending or the lighting of regional health agencies on the health situation. The Government also noted the introduction of the possibility of a remedy in the event that some voters felt that the organization of elections would be too late. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The exchanges between the two chambers, as with the Government, were, in my humble view, rich and constructive. This is also reflected in the final texts. I believe that all the temporary measures decided upon will enable us, in the difficult health situation we know, to adapt the democratic life of our country without ever calling it into question: this is the essential thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u7	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor in the joint general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u8	We are therefore gathered here to read the organic and ordinary texts organizing the postponement of the by-elections, as adopted by the Joint Joint Committees. In conclusion, these provisions have allowed several provisions proposed by the Senate to be included, which we consider to be useful in complementing the two texts. This is the case, for example, of the establishment of a deadline for the operative event allowing for the lag of the by-elections, of the territorialization of the analysis of the epidemic, which we consider to be particularly important, especially in the case of municipal by-elections, or of the introduction of a remedy for voters who consider that the State tends to be a little too late in organizing elections in a constituency. Two legislative districts are currently vacant, in Pas-de-Calais and in Paris, and a vote should be held as soon as possible to fill them. The issue we are discussing today will make some sort of case law: in January, we will discuss a new text to organize the postponement of the departmental and regional elections, a general renewal of two large communities. I repeat my surprise: while we are three months away from the organization originally planned for this election, we still do not have the text organising its postponement, nor do we have a date of postponement or even a clear view of the situation from a legal point of view. Nor do we have a strategy on technical issues, but how essential it is for democracy to live, as it relates to campaign accounts and the possible consequences of a multi-month postponement of the electoral campaign and the general renewal of the departmental and regional elections. This is important because we cannot be complacent in this uncertain situation for these large communities. We need to revive the economy in the territories and, for that, public order. However, departments and regions are major donors in this area: too long periods of uncertainty would run the risk of tarnishing projects and, consequently, public procurement, making economic recovery impossible for key players. It is therefore important today to organize the departmental and regional elections as soon as possible. At the Joint Committee, on the initiative of the rapporteur, a clarification was made on the possibility of holding the three ballots on the same date, which is one of the points on which we drew your attention at first reading. Holding departmental and regional elections at the same time is already a lot; It is not possible to add a third election, even if it is only partial – especially since in possible cases of this kind, it could even be two by-elections, one legislative and the other municipal. To clarify this impossibility was therefore useful, both in technical terms – let us think of the communities which must organise the elections and which, from a material point of view, do not have enough rooms, insulators and ballot boxes – and in terms of the readability and clarity of the choice for the voters. It will already be difficult for communities with different skills to conduct two campaigns simultaneously – the one for the departmental elections and the one for the regional elections – at different political stakes. Adding this year a municipal election, with its general jurisdiction clause, or a by-election, would mean nothing more – perhaps even for the candidates that we could all be here. Our system is still relatively complex! I will conclude by recalling what I have already said in the Joint Joint Committee: we can draw a little on the elasticity of the electoral rules, which have some flexibility in terms of organisation, but not too much. At some point, the question will arise as to how to campaign, because today the health risk is not linked to the vote: it, let us recall again and again, is completely secure and does not pose any problems. On the other hand, there is a health problem at the time of campaigning. In the end, therefore, we are promoting health security rather than the creativity that we will have to ask candidates to show for democracy to live – because from a health point of view, I repeat, the voting process is completely secure. The Republican Group will vote in favour of these texts, so as not to draw more on the elastic; But we shouldn't shoot any more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u9	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u10	The Prime Minister told the French yesterday: the game is not won. The health crisis is there, tenacious; It leads the Government to take measures which, although necessary, may be misunderstood or even misunderstood. The measures imposed on us today are aimed at responding to an emergency situation; those we are considering in these ordinary and organic bills are anticipations. The provisions of these texts draw lessons from the electoral sequence at the beginning of the year, in particular the postponement of the second round of municipal elections in order to preserve the health of the French and the democratic vitality of our country, as pointed out by the Deputy Minister. They have common sense and responsibility. Postponing an election is never an easy decision, a decision that can be taken lightly: it touches the heart of the democratic process. In the view of the Constitutional Council, it is also an imperative ground of general interest. As far as elections are concerned, the situation we are looking at today is different from that of this spring. In its opinion of 16 November on these draft laws, the Council of State points out: "The case of the by-elections targeted by the drafts is based on a different mechanism: following, in most cases, a final contentious cancellation or, more rarely, in the event of a vacancy of one or more seats for another reason, electoral operations allowing the appointment of new elected officials may be postponed beyond the legally prescribed period, even though the mandate concerned is no longer exercised by any elected person. Thus, when circumstances warrant, the legislators we are may postpone a by-election, provided that the time limit remains reasonable and appropriate to the circumstances underlying the by-election. Isabelle Florennes said in the committee of laws: the date decided takes into consideration the recommendations of the Scientific Council; It is the result of a compromise between the demands of the health crisis and those of the proper conduct of the elections, so that our citizens can make their voices heard safely. It fulfils the constitutional objective of protecting public health in the light of a deterioration in the health situation which led to the restoration of the state of emergency until 16 February 2021, new containment measures since 30 October, a new curfew from 15 December. On the other hand, Raphaël Schellenberger pointed out the difficulties that there might be in organizing two or even three simultaneous ballots in certain places: I therefore ask the question of the mail-order vote, which would simplify a number of things, and that of the single ballot, on which the names of the candidates of his choice are marked for several elections. Almost all democratic countries, it seems to me, have already experienced this last mechanism; We should do the same. It works abroad, why not at home? We would have a lot of savings on handling, ballot boxes and so on. [[Mr Remy Rebeyrotte and Mrs Catherine Kamowski, rapporteur, applaud]] The second wave of covid-19 broke through our country more violently than the first. The President of the Republic made this clear in his address on 24 November: we must continue to be vigilant and responsible, as the Prime Minister reminded us yesterday. The continuity and vitality of our democracy therefore depend on our ability to anticipate all possible scenarios and to anticipate appropriate responses; This is what these two texts do. With pragmatism, with common sense, they satisfy the expectations of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats. That is why we welcome the agreements reached in the Joint Joint Committee and will vote in favour of the resulting texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u11	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u12	As we have already seen in the spring, at the time of the general renewal of municipal councils, the health crisis we are experiencing has not only economic and social repercussions: it also affects our democratic life. Thus the second round of municipal elections was staggered from 22 March to 28 June; Thus the Organic Law of 3 August postponed the election of six senators representing the French established outside France; So the functioning of this House has been disrupted. The two texts we are looking at relate to this necessary adaptation of our political life to the health situation. Given the uncertainties surrounding the evolution of the epidemic, it is indeed wise to give ourselves the opportunity to postpone future by-elections, whether legislative, senatorial or municipal. The members of the Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote in favour of these bills, especially since most of their amendments have been adopted, which is certainly not usual. We wanted each agent to have two powers of attorney, as in the second round of municipal elections: this amendment was adopted last week by the Law Committee. As in this second round, we wanted to increase the ceiling for reimbursement of election expenses by 20 per cent: our chamber adopted an amendment at first reading which goes in the same direction, providing for an increase of 5 per cent per month beyond the deadline for convening the election code. We still have a slight regret: we would have liked to have the political groups and parties involved, in the event of a postponement, in setting the dates of these elections; For that reason, our amendments relating to this subject have been rejected. Nevertheless, the parliamentary shuttle has led to positive developments. With regard to the partial parliamentary, senatorial and municipal elections, the competent regional health agencies will have to submit every 15 days, until the elections are held, a detailed epidemiological report, made public without delay, which will enable the health situation in the districts concerned to be assessed. In addition, in the municipal by-elections, the administrative authority competent to summon voters may be seized by any person who is a member of the latter; its silence for 15 days will be worth rejecting the request to summon the voters; the decision will then be challenged before the judge for interim measures. Finally, I will insist on the readability that must be guaranteed to candidates and voters. The by-election in the sixth electoral district of Pas-de-Calais could serve as a counter-example in this area: initially scheduled for 22 and 29 November, it has already been postponed to 13 and 20 December; We understand the urgency of adopting these two texts in order to shift it a second time, and we can deplore the consequences of these successive postponements on both voters and candidates. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the Socialist Bastien Marguerite good luck.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u13	[[Smile]] Oh, here! It's a campaign clip!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u14	As an alternative campaign, it's original!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u15	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u16	Unfortunately, this is not the first time that our institution has had to look at texts whose timeliness is justified by the current health circumstances. In recent weeks, over the past few months, we have reviewed similar bills, whether they relate to municipal and consular elections or budgetary corrections. Those we are studying this morning may be just the beginning of legislative initiatives to shift the electoral calendar in view of the effects of the covid -19 epidemic. The rapporteur recalled the possibility of having the conclusions of the mission entrusted to Mr Jean-Louis Debré, former President of the National Assembly and then of the Constitutional Council, on the relevance of a postponement of the departmental and regional elections of March 2021, drawn up in a draft law. In the meantime, the texts before us today are, on the one hand, an organic bill on the timing of the parliamentary and senatorial by-elections, and, on the other hand, an ordinary bill on municipal by-elections and elections of members of trade union commissions. The first provides for the possibility of deferring the organization of elections beyond the three-month period following the determination of the vacancy of the seat provided for by the law in force: it would then take place "as soon as the health situation permits", in particular with regard to the recommendations of the Scientific Committee, and not later than Sunday, 13 June 2021. Only the deputies and senators representing the French established outside France would be subject not to this provision, but to the derogation provided for in Article 3 of the Organic Law of 3 August 2020: for those who look at us and listen to us, I recall that this exception is based on the fact that the by-elections, for these parliamentarians, are only held after the consular elections, which must take place as soon as the world health situation permits, and at the latest by May 2021. The second text, for its part, provides for the postponement of municipal by-elections, on the one hand, and those of the members of the trade union commissions, on the other hand, in order to take account of the health risks which, in the current context, could arise from the organisation of a campaign and a vote. According to the impact assessment, the first measure concerns sixty-three communes, the second between 20,000 and 100,000 sections managed by these commissions. They administer property belonging to a municipality's own property, for the benefit of the members of the municipality, i.e. the inhabitants of the municipality whose domicile is in the territory of the section. Such a section is established where a part of the municipality has on a permanent and exclusive basis certain interests, e.g. particular property or rights resulting from a gift or bequest; This may include hamlets or old communes that have merged with others to form a new municipality. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Given the current health circumstances and the balance of the proposed measures, the Action Together group will support these bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u17	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u18	The coronavirus epidemic that has hit France since the beginning of the year has disrupted our lifestyles, our habits, our ability to build future projects. This violent crisis has not only affected our economy; it also disturbs the democratic life of our country. Parliamentarians and local elected representatives have managed to adapt their practices and actions, so that the heart of our democracy does not cease to beat, so that answers can continue to be given to the expectations and needs of our fellow citizens. Nevertheless, the organization of elections seems difficult in these dangerous times. The pandemic has already forced us to postpone several electoral deadlines, including the second round of municipal elections, which finally took place in June; However, adjustments are still needed. Indeed, French democratic life is also made up of resignations, appointments, cancellations of elections, deaths and election holidays, which naturally lead to the holding of new elections. Two seats as deputies are thus to be the subject of by-elections, as well as many communal executives and, possibly, several seats as senators. The law in force provides for the organisation of these elections within three months of the vacancy of a member of parliament or municipal councillor, but the epidemiological context forces us to derogate from these provisions. These organic and ordinary bills provide for the possibility to postpone the by-elections at the time the health situation permits, and no later than 13 June 2021. Yesterday, the Joint Joint Committee reached agreement on these texts, which is welcomed by Members of the IDU and independent group. Since March, we have repeatedly questioned the Government on the need for decentralized management of the health crisis, so that decisions can be adapted: why impose the same health measures on Vendôme, Belfort, Marseille, when these territories are resolutely different and the epidemic does not strike them in the same way? The central management of this crisis by the State has shown its limitations and inconsistencies, which we regret. In these circumstances, we can only welcome the decision of the Joint Joint Committee to replace the recommendations of the Scientific Committee on the organisation of elections with health expertise at the territorial level. With these new provisions, the reports made public by the regional health agencies every 15 days will enable the competent authorities to decide impartially and objectively whether or not to organise the elections, so that they take place in the best possible conditions. Finally, we welcome the doubling of proxy power of attorneys and the possibility of the competent authorities moving to the most fragile homes, which face difficulties in moving, in order to establish or withdraw their power of attorney. These common sense provisions prove that access to the ballot boxes of our fellow citizens can be facilitated without necessarily resorting to dangerous practices such as mail-order voting, to which we wish to recall our opposition. We have already reported this to the Prime Minister when he asked us about the recommendations of Mr. Jean-Louis Debré's report. It was precisely because it allowed all the frauds that this method of voting was abolished in 1975. The problem of non-participation in elections will not be solved by a technical solution, but by our ability to re-interest our fellow citizens, to re-establish them with politics. It is strange to note that while the French are probably the citizens most interested in politics in Europe, they are also those who disinterest most today. The fight against abstention is fundamental. Be careful not to open a Pandora's box with potentially disastrous consequences. Let us ask ourselves the right questions, especially as regards the attractiveness of our debates and our elected representatives, but above all, let us not play with the sorcerer apprentices. Apart from these remarks, IDU and independent Members will vote for these two texts, which are in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u19	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u20	The purpose of the two ordinary and organic bills, introduced by the Government and placed on our agenda today, is to provide for the modalities for the postponement of by-elections that may result from the vacancy of a member of a deputy, senator, municipal councillor or a member of a trade union commission. The Organic Bill provides that the vacancy of a Member's or Senator's seat may result in the holding of a by-election beyond the three-month period following the determination of the vacancy provided for by the law in force. The ordinary bill contains provisions similar to the organic bill for by-elections relating to a seat of municipal councillor, district councillor or for the election of members of trade union commissions. The elections would be held as soon as the health situation permits, no later than 13 June 2021 The text adopted by our Assembly provided that the health situation should be assessed in the light of, inter alia, the general recommendations on the conditions for holding the partial elections, which the Government requested from the Scientific Committee. The Liberties and Territories Group regretted this provision, which gave the Government alone, on the advice of the Scientific Council, the power to decide on that date. The Senate has found a solution, taken from the text of the CMP: the health situation will be assessed in particular with regard to the local epidemiological data made public by the relevant SRA every fortnight until the holding of the by-election – I will refrain from commenting on the functioning of SRAs in our territories. This territorial approach to health information, designed to take local circumstances into account in the by-elections, seems to us to be a better proposal. However, evaluations should be made public. However, this measure will not avoid the need for maximum consultation with national representatives, as well as with political parties and local elected officials, in order to avoid suspicions of the criteria for convening an election. At the moment we are debating, it is no less than sixty-three municipal by-elections, two parliamentary elections and potentially ten senatorial elections that are concerned – these figures are likely to increase, at least for municipal elections. With regard to municipal elections, the text of the CMP also provides a specific remedy that is welcome so that voters in an electoral district can challenge the decision of the administrative authority that would refuse to call municipal by-elections when the health situation permits. We also note that the CMP followed the Senate to secure the conditions for organizing the by-elections, building on the mechanism implemented for the second round of municipal elections in June 2020. First, it maintains the possibility for the Assembly to have two power of attorneys against only one currently. We hope that this measure will continue to be applied to all elections because, adopted by the French, it will promote participation without having to go as far as the compulsory vote – on which we could also base our vote. The Joint Joint Committee has introduced the possibility for vulnerable persons to establish a power of attorney from their home without proof, upon request to the competent authorities by post, telephone or, where appropriate, by electronic means. This is not yet a mail-order vote – which is not unanimous in the Libertés et Territoires Group – but it is being approached, as these requests for power of attorney would be made by correspondence. As I called for, mail-order voting is likely to discharge a little more the judicial police, gendarmerie and national police services, whose dedication I would like to emphasize. Proxy-related missions impinge on their core business. As for the new provision recalling the obligation of the State to provide the municipalities concerned with the appropriate protective equipment for voters and members of polling stations, it is such as to reassure those who are hesitant about the low risk of moving to the insulator. Finally, we reiterate our call to the Government for greater consultation, as it may have taken place within the framework of the committee chaired by Jean-Louis Debré, responsible for working on the postponement of the departmental and regional elections, whose excellent work I welcome – although it is true that this consultation does not simplify matters. Madam Deputy Minister, do you confirm the information from the draft legislation on the postponement of these elections, according to which a report drawn up by a qualified person appointed by the Prime Minister should be submitted to Parliament no later than April 15, 2021, to decide definitively on the possibility of holding the elections at the end of June? The government announcements yesterday remind us that the virus is still circulating among the population and that returning to normal will take time. Faced with this situation, and as it did at first reading, the Libertés et territoires group will support the two bills that provide for the adjustment measures that you have introduced. These will enable our fellow citizens to reconcile the exercise of democratic life with respect for the health conditions that we need. We do not consider it desirable for democracy to organise elections and, above all, to campaign under the current conditions of restriction of movement and meetings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u21	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u22	The period we are going through is marked by many uncertainties that are changing the lives of French and French people: uncertainties about their health and that of their loved ones, about their employment, about their children's educational background, about their daily lives, but also about their future and even about their rights and freedoms, such as the freedom of movement, which the measures required by the health crisis have shaken. Uncertainties are also linked to political decisions. While it is not easy to govern in times of covid -19, recognize that many decisions, orders and contraries have helped to throw trouble into the minds. Let us be careful that the general uncertainty does not fuel the growing mistrust of our democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u23	It's time to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u24	That is why, in this uncertain climate, it was only time that the texts we are considering provided a framework and a bit of visibility for our democratic life, with the conditions for organising the by-elections. These provisions were all the more necessary as the evolution of the pandemic did not, unfortunately, rule out the possibility of new confinements. The two bills we are considering together are a first and very small step towards greater clarity, to which the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left can only subscribe. It should be noted that this clarity is still lacking today with regard to the holding of the departmental and regional elections, originally scheduled for next March and probably postponed to June. Making sure that our democratic deadlines are kept in the best conditions is an issue of considerable significance: democracy cannot remain in the brink, so to speak. It is also a question of ensuring participation in the ballot, which is too often uncertain. In fact, modest participation in the last municipal elections is very bad news: it weakens the communal institution, even though it is often at the forefront in the fight against the pandemic and in the accompaniment of the population. No surprise, we will therefore vote for both texts. At this stage, however, we would like to make a number of suggestions, some of which are contained in Jean-Louis's report. Debate on the holding of the next departmental and regional elections, and make some remarks aimed at ensuring the participation of as many of our fellow citizens in the next election, and ensuring their involvement and information. Let us first mention the shortening of the time between registration and the first round of the election, which is a measure of common sense, as well as the possibility to carry several power of attorneys and to facilitate the use of voting by that means. Persons with factors of vulnerability to covid-19 could thus ask the competent authorities to travel to establish a power of attorney. On the other hand, we draw attention to the possible risks of fraud associated with mail-order or Internet voting. I know that the use of this solution is a matter of debate, but in any event, it seems to me essential to think now about ways of countering these risks, so as not to create situations in which the sincerity of the vote would be started. Finally, let us not lose sight of the fact that voting is only a moment in an electoral process. He concludes a long sequence, that of the campaign...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u25	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u26	... of which we all know, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a privileged moment to gather, expose and confront ideas, proposals and projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u27	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u28	Although they are of course legitimate, health restrictions hinder the normal conduct of an electoral campaign and prevent the proximity between voters and candidates offered by the door-to-door, always appreciated by each other, and the rallies of activists. That is why, even if these are questions that go beyond the texts we are discussing today, the legislator should urgently find ways to facilitate the holding of public debate for the upcoming elections. We also believe that an increase in the ceiling for election communication expenditure should be envisaged in order to make it possible to disseminate more information to citizens, e.g. through the deployment of digital tools to exchange with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u30	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is some reflections which the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left wanted to give you before renewing its favourable opinion on these texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u31	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u32	Members of the La République group are naturally pleased with the success of the two Joint Joint Committees yesterday. This outcome will make it possible to organize in the best possible conditions the future by-elections – legislative, senatorial and municipal – as well as the elections of the trade union commissions, in this time of major global health crisis, so difficult to manage. Against bad fortune we have good heart, and we will have good courage for the campaigns to come and for the elections indispensable for our democratic life. [[Smiles and applause on several benches]] The two outstanding questions, on the one hand, relating to dates and time limits and on the other hand to the organisation of proxy procedures, were the subject of an agreement between the two chambers. I would like to pay tribute to the respective rapporteurs of the Senate and the National Assembly, in particular Catherine Kamowski, who led with a master hand the necessarily delicate work on these texts – indeed it is always delicate to touch on the organisation of the elections. I also thank our administrators, without which we would only be legislators at night – MPs in the night, in a way. As you know, the commission chaired by Jean-Louis Debré has issued its report and a bill is currently being reviewed and reread by the Council of State; We will therefore have to decide in January on the date of postponement of the regional and departmental elections and on the conditions under which these elections can be held, taking into account, of course, the current uncertainties. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups. and Dem]] The La République en marche group of course agrees with the conclusions of the CMPs and will vote on the two texts presented this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u34	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u35	I put to the vote the whole of the draft organic law on the timing of parliamentary and senatorial elections, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u36	I put to the vote the whole bill on the time limits for organizing municipal by-elections and elections of members of trade union committees, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u37	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill ratifying Order No. 2019-950 of 11 September 2019, which is part of the legislation of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code (No. 2367, 3637).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u38	Last night, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, stopping with amendment No. 243 on the additional article after article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u39	Mr Fabien Di Filippo's amendment No. 243 is being defended. Mr. Jean Terlier, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u40	He's unfavorable, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u41	Mr. Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice, has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u42	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u43	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u44	With this amendment, we are calling for the minority exception to be abandoned for those over 16 years of age, regardless of their jurisdiction. By adding the possibility of a minority exception to the police court, this new code goes beyond the current regime. However, the police court is not a specialized court formed on issues relating to children. We therefore propose that, at the very least, the police court cannot rule out the rules of mitigation of liability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u45	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u46	Last night we had a debate on this point with Mrs Faucillon. With regard to the first and fourth class offences, it seems to me appropriate to allow the judge the possibility of retaining the minority exception. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u47	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u48	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u49	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u50	I am surprised that the police court, competent for first and fourth class offences, can decide on a minority excuse. In committee, we considered that the offences concerned had nothing to do with the specialized jurisdiction of the juvenile judge. Can you tell us what justifies granting this possibility to the police court?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u51	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u52	We have not yet mentioned the point that we are dealing with: last night, you simply explained to us that you felt that, for minors between the ages of 16 and 18 who have committed crimes and certain particularly serious offences, it should be possible to rule out the minority excuse – on an exceptional basis and in accordance with a framed and reasoned decision. In any case, the excuse of a minority is rarely invoked and, when it is used, it is mainly for minors who have almost reached the age of 18. If I disagree with the argument you made last night in criminal matters, I can still understand it. This is quite different in the area of fines, where there is no justification for the position you are defending: in the name of what do you want a minor to pay a fine of 68 euros rather than 34 euros?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u53	I have before me three amendments, Nos 114, 58 and 25, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u54	In accordance with a position which we defended last night, these amendments provide that, for minors aged 16 or over, the court seised may decide by considering the criminal responsibility of the accused, i.e. by having the possibility not to apply the rules of mitigation of sentences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u55	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u56	As yesterday, I refer you to the provisions of article L.121-7 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code and I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u57	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u58	Article L.122-1 provides that the provisions relating to work of general interest shall apply to minors between the ages of 16 and 18 at the time of the decision, when they were at least 13 years of age on the date of the commission of the offence. This provision introduces unequal treatment among convicted persons, which depends not on the individualization of the sentence but on the time taken for each court to be treated, with all the consequences that this entails in terms of registration in the criminal record, the first term of recidivism or imprisonment. It creates a strong violation of both the principle of equality and the legality of penalties. In concrete terms, when two minors aged 15 and a half have committed a similar offence, one could, if the police investigation is swift and the time limits of the court are reasonable, be subject to only one educational measure – given that the sentences of probation and confiscation are much less frequently imposed than the work of general interest – while the other, if the investigative services are charged or the time limits for hearing are longer, could be subject to a TIG sentence. We therefore propose that, in order to be liable for public service work, the minor should be at least 16 years of age at the time of the commission of the offence, not at the time of sentencing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u59	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u60	What you call unequal treatment, I consider it a flexibility left to the judge to appreciate, depending on the minor's personality, the opportunity to issue an educational measure or a sentence. I am therefore against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u62	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u63	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u64	The Juvenile Criminal Justice Code begins by recalling, in a preliminary article, the founding principles of juvenile criminal justice, such as the primacy of the educational response, the principle of specialisation of the courts and the mitigation of the criminal responsibility of minors through the application of the minority apology, before these principles are relativized as the code advances. One realizes that, for you, the age of 13 is ultimately not that important, at least not always; education may have to take precedence over repression, but there is still a need for repression; as to the minority excuse, why should it be provided for when the penalty for adults can very well be appropriate for a minor? We are dealing here with the fundamental problem of this text and the main reason why we oppose it, namely that it does not really apply the principles that it begins by recalling – which is all the more a pity that we do not carry out every four morning a complete reform of the juvenile justice system... Instead of describing how the main principles will be implemented, the text simply lists the reasons why they will be set aside. I solemnly say it again, I find it really unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u65	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 189.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u66	Looking back at a debate we had yesterday on other articles, our group intends to remove the possibility for the children's judge to impose a TIG sentence in the council chamber, stating that it is up to the children's court to pronounce what is indeed a sentence, with all the consequences that this implies – I am thinking in particular of the registration in the criminal record: even if it is only the B1, it is not neutral.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u67	You have to dose!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u68	In other words, we hope that the decision to punish a minor with a sentence will be accompanied by all the necessary guarantees, in particular in terms of the collegiality of the proceedings and the publicity of the proceedings. On this point, the draft follows the same logic as for the majors, since the last law on programming for justice has extended widely the cases where a decision could be made by a single judge rather than by a collegiate body. We can only agree with the opinion of the human rights defender, who has found that the criminal law of adults is increasingly irritating the criminal law of minors, and we have a new illustration here. For our part, we defend the principle that sentences imposed on minors should only be imposed within a specific framework, a framework of exception, namely the Children's Court.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u69	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u70	We still believe that it is relevant that the appropriate sentence of the TIG can be imposed by the child judge alone. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u71	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u72	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u73	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u74	The point is not, Mr rapporteur, whether the penalty is appropriate or not. I am not opposed in principle to work of general interest, but such a measure constitutes a penalty which, if not carried out, may result in the application of a prison sentence. A penalty, whatever it may be, is never something neutral; That is why we want it to be handed down by a court, not in a judge's office. We must not confuse speed with haste, and it is precisely on this point that we have concerns: there is, in a court judgment, a solemnity that is not found in a judge's office. I repeat, this has nothing to do with the sentence itself, with its quality or relevance: it is simply the conditions under which this sentence is imposed, and we clearly have a substantive disagreement on this point. For us, it is up to the court to judge whether the sentence of TIG is the most appropriate or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u75	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 190.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u76	By this amendment, our parliamentary group intends to amend Article L.122-2 of the Code, which lists the obligations which the court of judgment may impose on the convicted minor. Our amendment removes from this list the obligations which cannot be imposed on a minor and which are derived from the criminal code to which the article refers, namely to justify that he contributes to the family charges or regularly pays the maintenance of which he is a debtor; not engage in the activity in the exercise or the exercise of which the offence was committed or not engage in an activity involving normal contact with minors; do not engage in betting, particularly in mutual betting organizations, and do not participate in gambling.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u77	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u78	We agree that the provisions of article 132-45 of the Criminal Code are not applicable to minors and will therefore not be handed down by the juvenile judge. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u79	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u80	This amendment concerns the penalty of confiscation. As with the work of general interest, we would like it to be decided by the Children's Court and not by the Children's Court, in cabinet. Were those who had provided in the 1945 order that the court should have jurisdiction over such penalties completely insane? Have they chosen a disproportionate solution? I don't believe it. They have considered it well and considered that, because one was in the area of penalties – even if a confiscation may seem trivial – one had to gather all the guarantees to pronounce it, by having the case tried by the children's court, which allows collegiality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u82	We continue to believe that it is appropriate for the juvenile judge to be able to impose sanctions such as these. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u84	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u85	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 194.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u86	It also aims to preserve collegiality. I don't know if it's because it's still early this morning, but I feel like the minister doesn't care a bit about collegiality stories... It's a shame for a lawyer, because it's a recurring claim of his profession. This provides guarantees for all, including the magistrate. But what's going on, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u87	Please, Mr. Bernalicis...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u88	I see Mr. Minister making signs and I'm trying to understand...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u89	Keep defending your amendment, that's the point. We're here to listen to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u90	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] The essential thing is also that the minister answer me, and I wonder how I should analyse his non-verbal communication!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u91	If we start analyzing non-verbal communications, we're not gonna make it. Go on, Mr. Bernalicis...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u92	But you know, Mr President, verbal communication is something essential – and that is why I am opposed to the use of video conferencing. It is one of the elements that the magistrate and the lawyer have to assess. You don't care about collegiality, minister. I understand it well: your concern is to manage flows, to save money, to prevent judges from being too busy with unnecessary tasks such as making justice collegially for confiscation sentences. You do not want to accept it, it is a shame: it undermines the quality of the debate. Or the debate, you accepted it only for yesterday and today, you prefer to chain the "Unfavorable". I think we're getting off to a bad start all day...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u93	But what are those lessons you're constantly teaching?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u95	Unfavorable notice again. We believe that collegiality is not the alpha and the omega to render justice in a good way. The probationary sentence is effective and it is up to the children's judge to pronounce it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u97	Once and for all, Mr. Bernalicis, these gestures, I made them like a mime that sculpts silence. I thought you might understand them more than we say thirty, forty, fifty times. You raise the debate, don't you – and fortunately the ceilings are very high – but you know Audiard's formula: "By taking people for chairs, you always end up sitting next door." [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. - Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] You don't like dialogue. When I was a lawyer, you see, I was talking to convince; You, you speak to speak. Whatever you say, whatever you do, it's no use. You mention my gestures, but I see that you're already asking to answer when I just got up to take the microphone. I conclude that what I'm saying doesn't matter to you. Since I don't have the taste for unnecessary effort, I am now going to the economy. I am against your amendment. Hear it once and for all, and there is a good chance that we will shorten – in any case as far as I am concerned – this succession of monologues that has nothing to do with the dialogue that you call your vows. It is a dialogue of the deaf that you wish to impose on me, but you will not succeed: tell what you want, think what you want, Mr Bernalicis, it will be so from now on that I will answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u98	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u99	Mr Minister, between my speech and yours, there is that of the rapporteur, so I sometimes raise my hand to respond to what Mr Terlier or another colleague has said. But it's okay, we don't care. It is true that there are sometimes successions of monologues in this Chamber. However, there are procedures such as scheduled legislative time that allow for a more constructed debate – we are discussing it with President Waserman yesterday in part. For this text, it does not apply, and I am in compliance with the constraints of the two minutes we have to defend our amendments: this obliges me to wait for the next amendment to speak again or to raise my hand to complete my argument. Yes, minister, I say to you: we are not in a courtroom but in the National Assembly, and this is not the same as in a courtroom. I know it's painful, the atmosphere may have been nicer to you before, but here things are going on like this. And I am not saying that the way in which speeches are organized is something great, but unlike you, Minister, I never despair of convincing. Never! After that, I'm sure you've been well-briefed and told that it's no use answering Bernalicis and that it's better to just say "unfavorable." I note, however, that you cannot resist using the microphone, and I am very pleased with it, because that is also what makes the examination of this text a bit like a debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u100	You're not the center of the world, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u101	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u102	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and IDU-I groups]] First of all, I would like to point out that the right to the amendment is an essential right for every Member and that it does not have to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u104	No one said it wasn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u105	It is normal for every parliamentarian to defend his or her amendments and present arguments to convince him or her. Building a law means listening to each other and, through the amendments, seeking to improve the drafting of the text or contest some of its aspects. This is the work of parliamentarians, with the monitoring of the Government's action. So accept that we are defending our amendments. We always listen very carefully to the answers of the rapporteur and the minister. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I now come to the defence of my amendment. Because the child is a person dependent on the adult, because his personality is under construction, we want to include in the juvenile criminal justice code that the sentence of imprisonment is imposed on an exceptional basis. We all know here that the prison sentence is the worst answer. We consider it necessary to stress the exceptional nature of the imprisonment of minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u107	Unfavorable opinion. The amendment is already satisfied: the sentence of imprisonment is always imposed on an exceptional basis and must always be specially motivated. For these reasons, it does not seem useful to us to clarify this again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u108	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u109	Madam Member, this amendment is indeed satisfied, in particular by Article L.123-1 of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u110	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u111	I wonder about our ability to convince each other and listen to each other. Yesterday, we discussed an amendment – you remember, Mr President – to set up cultural activities in closed educational centres – CEF. Its potential financial inadmissibility was pointed out and it was replied that a decree already provided for such activities to take place in the CEFs, but it was nevertheless adopted. Everyone agreed. Here, it is not even a question of entering in the code something that already exists: "exceptionally" does not mean the same thing as "specially motivated". One can imagine that the fact that the sentence is specially motivated stems from its exceptional character, but it is not included in the code as such. If you consider that the prison sentence must be exceptional, then, Mr Minister, the rapporteur, give an opinion in favour of this amendment. That would be the signal that we have a real debate where everyone is considered correctly and there is a willingness to move things forward. Or do not accept the amendments which are intended to include in our law that cultural activities must be held in the EFCs when this is already planned. How else can we translate this kind of message? Do you have to understand that you have nothing to do with opposition and that you are prepared to pass the dishes within the majority to glorify yourself for having adopted such or such an amendment without scope? This is not a good parliamentary debate! In the Senate, at least, it doesn't happen like that – it's the only thing you can say.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u112	Then join the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u113	Maybe I'll think about it later. I'm not old enough yet. I will wait until I have the privilege of being able to say to the younger ones, "You were not only born...".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u114	For the sake of clarity of our discussions, I should like to make it clear that, with regard to yesterday's amendment, my speech, just before it was put to the vote, concerned its admissibility and therefore the assessment of the objectives it pursues, not whether or not it is appropriate to make such an addition to the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u115	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor in support of Amendment No 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u116	A delinquent child is a child in danger. Imprisoning a teenager is not an anomaly. The latter must be applied as a last resort in a course of crime, when the measures already imposed have not, at the time of the judgment, given any result on the behaviour of the juvenile. That is why we hope that the prison sentence imposed must be accompanied by an educational measure entrusted to the judicial protection of young people, the PJJ, in order to ensure the educational follow-up of young minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u118	For that reason, Mrs Lebon, Mr Bernalicis, such a measure is already planned. I refer you to article L.124-1, which states that the incarcerated minor is entitled to "continuous intervention by a youth judicial protection department". It would be superfate to make such a reminder. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u120	That is indeed already planned. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u121	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 73 and 285. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u122	Article L.124-2 provides that "exceptionally, a detained minor who reaches the majority in custody may be kept in such institutions until the age of eighteen and six months" and that "he shall have no contact with detainees under sixteen years of age". With this amendment, we wish to raise this age limit to 21 years so as not to put an abrupt end to the work undertaken by educators of the judicial protection of young people and teachers of national education at the age of 18 and six months. The Citizens and Justice Federation notes in this regard that "youth incarcerated during their minority should be allowed to continue their detention in juvenile neighbourhoods and juvenile prisons until they reach the age of twenty-one, if any, unless otherwise in exceptional circumstances by written decision of the juvenile judge. » Of course, exceptions will always be possible, but we want to set a guiding principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u123	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 285.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u124	We had this debate in committee and our colleagues in the majority seemed interested in this opportunity for those who became adults in detention to stay in the juvenile wards to finish serving their sentences. Juvenile penitentiaries and juvenile wards are distinguished not only by a separation between minors and adults, but also by their own rhythm and supervision. Enhanced support enables the educational work that our colleagues in the GDR Group are insisting on to be carried out. This is why these establishments and neighbourhoods have a higher daily cost than institutions for adults. We should be able to move forward on this 21-year-old principle. This might involve creating specific wings or cells separated from others – and yet, I'm not sure that this is the most appropriate solution. In any case, let us not make a potential material problem an obstacle to the continuation of the strengthened follow-up beyond the current age limit for convicted young people when they were still minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u126	The problem you're raising is interesting. It is a commendable concern to want to protect young adults between the ages of 18 and 21 from the prison universe of adults. However, it could be difficult or even dangerous to make them live together with the youngest minors. My constituency is home to a juvenile facility in Lavaur, and I am very often talking to the director, who tells me that I should be particularly careful that minors aged 13 or 14 are not close to those aged 17 or 18. Age differences are indeed difficult. Extending the age limit to 21 years, as Mr Rupin had proposed in committee, seems to me difficult to understand and implement given the protection that is also due to young minors in prison. This issue has already been addressed, I believe, in the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code with regard to the continuation of the educational measure beyond the age of 18 and up to the age of 21. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u128	Of course, the measure you are proposing is commendable, but it poses a number of difficulties. As I said yesterday, at the age of 18, you are a minor, and at the age of 18 you are an adult. The issue is no longer that of the protection of young adults, but rather that of young people who are in contact with those who have become major. The very nature of the law is to set the rules. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u129	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u130	We are sensitive to the arguments that you are developing, which we have obviously thought about when we tabled this amendment. We propose that young people who were already detained may remain in the juvenile ward beyond the age of 18 and six months. We are talking about young people who committed acts for which they were tried while they were minors. We believe that when they arrive at the end of their sentence, the shift to the Majors' Quarter is not necessarily the best stage of re-integration towards the exit, and that it can even create additional brutality on this end of sentence before the exit. Of course, we do not propose to make it the rule, but that an opinion be given by the prison staff accompanying this young person who has been there for some time, since before his 18th birthday, and whose sentence is known to last a few months, whether or not it is dangerous for the other minors present, how he behaved, so that he can remain until the end of his sentence in this area where the conditions are not the same as in the district of the majors. Perhaps we need to better frame the provision that we propose and that you have the opportunity to sub-amend. In any case, it really seems to us to be in the interests of both society and that person, so that they can reintegrate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u131	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u132	I hear the rapporteur's arguments that there are very young children under the age of 13 or 14 in these establishments. That is why, and I am telling you, because what we are proposing follows an argumentative logic, we are in favour of the irrefragable presumption below the age of 14, that is, that there should be no minors under the age of 14 in juvenile prisons. We even proposed to set a threshold of 15 or 16 years, below which there could be no prison sentence. If we had adopted all of our proposals, there would potentially be only minors over the age of 16, and the question would probably be a little different. Minister, you say that at the age of 18 and one day the young person is an adult and that he can no longer stay with the other minors, because it could be dangerous for them. But was he less dangerous when he was 18 less a day? There is something in the reasoning that does not work, or then the arguments are completely reversible in one direction and in the other, in which case they are not very good. With this amendment, we offer a possibility: it is not an obligation. We do not ask that all minors over the age of 18 stay in public institutions for minors; There is therefore a substantial margin of appreciation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u133	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u134	Mrs Faucillon, I understand what you are saying, which is humanly understood. I would remind you, in order for the debate to be entirely complete on this issue, that the 18 to 21 year-olds have a more protective, derogatory regime, and that they are separated from older prisoners. There's airlocks. They are subjected to night isolation and have wider access to education and training. It is a blasphemy that it is necessary to recall: this category of detainees – sorry to express this to me – is not projected in the detention of adults without a certain number of precautions being taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u136	I call Mr Pacôme Rupin to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u137	I am going to extend the debate on this subject, which I mentioned in committee. I was then convinced by the answer of the keeper of the seals and I reworked my amendment. The one I am proposing here is more flexible than the ones we have just examined. As you know, article L.124-2 provides that a detained minor who reaches the majority in detention may be kept in a juvenile institution until the age of 18 and six months, without contact with detainees under 16 years of age. It is well known that the period between the ages of 18 and 20 is crucial in terms of the future prospects of the young person. Avoiding contact with older inmates when it seems relevant can facilitate the reintegration of the young adult at the end of his or her period of detention, which may help to avoid recidivism. The retention in a juvenile institution may also allow for the continuation of the educational work in these institutions and the avoidance of a break in the event of a transfer to a juvenile prison. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to ensure that very young adults whose release is to take place within a short period of time are immediately and automatically transferred to a prison for adults at the age of 18 and six months. He proposed that a young adult who was serving a term of imprisonment of less than or equal to two years could be re-examined by the sentencing judge before that age, in order to determine whether it would be appropriate to keep him in the juvenile institution for only a few more months, possibly until his release if he remained for a few months until the end of his sentence, or to adjust his sentence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u139	That is true, you are surrounding your amendment with new provisions that effectively address all the risks that have been raised. Like you, I have heard the minister reminding us that there are airlocks in prisons for adults to accommodate young adults between the ages of 18 and 21. Rather, it seems to me to be in line with what you are proposing, even if they are not there in a juvenile institution. I therefore ask that this amendment be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u140	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u141	I want to complete that flat that I was talking about right now. Relationships are maintained between the young adult and the JJP until the age of 21. It's a derogatory regime. As I said earlier, the young adult is not projected with this brutality that you rightly fear in the detention of the adults without a number of precautions being taken in advance. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u142	Really? Did you take a good look, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u143	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 131.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u144	The aim is to supplement this new Code of Juvenile Criminal Justice with article L. 124-3, which reads: "Unaccompanied minors who have committed an offence shall be expelled from the national territory and shall be entrusted to the competent administrative authority of their country of origin. » The Paris Public Prosecutor's Office has revealed that almost 75 per cent of minors tried are foreign minors in an irregular situation. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is not isolated, since according to the Nanterre Public Prosecutor's Office, 58 per cent of the minors charged are unaccompanied minors in Hauts-de-Seine. You will certainly reply to me, as yesterday, that the international conventions and the code on the entry and residence of foreigners and the right of asylum, CESEDA, prohibit the return of foreign minors. That is true, except in the context of bilateral agreements which could be concluded between France and the countries of origin. Minister, you yourself have entered into an agreement with your Moroccan counterpart to set up a shelter in Morocco to take care of unaccompanied minors returned to their country of origin. My amendment simply aims to generalize this excellent agreement that you have just signed with the Moroccan authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u146	This debate took place last night. Opinion on this subject is still very unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u147	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u148	Madam Member, you are confusing two things that are different. In criminal cases, it is not possible to expel a minor. I recalled yesterday the international conventions – which, as you know, have supranational value. You are referring to the agreement reached in Morocco. I did go there with two of your colleagues, Mr Savignant, who is here and who can testify, and Mr Eliaou. It is obviously a matter of considering the expulsion, the return to the country should I say, of unaccompanied minors – MNA. But you have to identify them first, and it's not easy. Behind this acronym, there is an absolutely unbearable human reality. First, some are not minors. We've talked a lot about Moroccan MNAs, but some are unaccompanied and not Moroccan majors – they have another nationality. The agreement you're talking about is about being able to identify these children. There are, of course, different ways to do this, and we have used tracks that have not been so far, such as telephony. If there are, in a day, twenty calls with prefix 212, it probably means that this child still has perennial ties with Moroccans. Another track is spoken language, since there are different dialectic languages on which a seasoned interpreter can recognize provenance. There are still other avenues. That's for the upstream. Downstream, of course, it is a matter of considering the return of minors to these structures, as far as Morocco is concerned, whose judges who visited them say they are of high quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u149	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u150	Yes, Mrs Faucillon, the French magistrates of the Paris court went to Morocco with the liaison magistrate...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u151	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u152	... where they found that the structures, you don't mind, are of good quality. You say, "Ah! It's amazing! I do not know if the people you are consulting and who are giving you the amendments have gone to Morocco, but we have judges whose job is to look after the children who say that these structures are of good quality. That's for this "Ah! It rises there again towards the ceiling.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u153	There are limits, though! Let's talk about your cards!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u154	I repeat, the structures are of good quality and we are the experts in the JJP, which is also of good quality. Madame Ménard, when we free these kids, either they go back to the suburbs, in which case it is an absolute disaster and the interests of the child are not there,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u156	... or they return to their country of origin under acceptable human conditions. Human rights are not just a posture, it is a reality. I say it without shame: it is better for these children to return to their country of origin in good conditions and to be accepted in expert structures – not by my services but by the magistrates – as good structures. I would add, to be quite complete, that this cannot be done by means of the vector of criminal punishment, because international conventions prohibit it. This is possible, on the other hand, in the context of child protection, which is not a criminal matter, but a civil matter. That is the answer I wanted to give you on this issue which is of legitimate concern to you, as it concerns me, as well as to national representation and the whole country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u157	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u158	Mr.Minister, in our work as parliamentarians, we are dealing with people who work with us to give us all the elements of our thinking. This is not a disgrace to a Member of Parliament; On the contrary, this honours his work in that it helps to ensure its quality. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Mrs Ménard, at a hearing of the committee of inquiry on the consequences of covid-19 on children and young people, chaired by Mrs Sandrine Mörch, we were able to see that the deepest desire of unaccompanied minors that we intended was to enrol in a school curriculum in order to be able to integrate by learning the language, to acquire knowledge and, tomorrow, to work in our country. It was also to find a proper place to stay, because most of those we auditioned were staying in hotels, where they were also isolated, especially during confinements, with very rare visits, because very difficult, educators – but with many phone calls that allowed them to hold on. On the occasion of the dismantling of a camp such as the one in Saint-Denis, most of these young people come from Yemen or Afghanistan. I wish them the opportunity to be in France and live there with dignity, because these countries are facing great difficulties. Let's give these kids a chance. They deserve it, with their efforts to be able to integrate into our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u159	It's good to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u160	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u161	[[Exclaims on the banks of the GDR and SOC groups]] Mrs Buffet, you say that an unaccompanied minor has only one desire: to integrate into France in good conditions. This is indeed the wish of all minors and adults who have entered France in an irregular situation – we all agree on this. Minister, I am delighted with your answer, because I absolutely agree with everything you have said. The only hiatus with what I am proposing is that you say that this procedure is prohibited in criminal matters and that the agreement you entered into with your Moroccan counterpart was on civil matters, in respect of child protection. The measure provided for in my amendment applies precisely in the case of an offence committed by the unaccompanied minor, which would then be entrusted – in which we fully agree, even if you are not in favour of my amendment – to the competent admiring authority, that is to say, to the social child welfare services. I agree a thousand times with you that Morocco has very competent structures to accommodate minors who would return to this country after trying to enter France through certain channels or because of circumstances that would have imposed themselves on them. There is, however, a small difference between our positions, because while I am well aware, as I have made clear, that international conventions now prohibit the measure proposed by my amendment, I would also like to stress that it could be made possible by a bilateral convention signed between France and the country of origin – in this case Morocco.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u162	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u163	Mrs Ménard, I have already answered you in detail. The cases of offences, which you refer to again, are criminal cases and therefore have nothing to do with the discussion of the CJPM, the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors, even if unaccompanied minors, since they are minors, may have to know, if necessary, what we are building here. Mrs Buffet, what you're saying touches me and doesn't leave me insensitive. You will have understood that what is possible here in the civil context is not in the criminal context. For having been confronted with situations in which children were handed over to the streets, often in deplorable and sometimes drug ravaged health situations, I can say that under these conditions it is better for these children to be accommodated in structures that have been expertised by our magistrates – rather than by the services of my ministry, even if the latter's expertise is no less objective. You raise a fundamental point, and I myself have been the victim of a defect that I constantly denounce: that of manicheism that surrounds the notion of expulsion. Some children adhere to the routes offered to them in France: these are taken into account and we do not have the will to expel them. There are kids – that's the right word – who sometimes arrive at the age of 8. Small Moroccans, for example – who are not the majority among unaccompanied minors, even though the press has often mentioned this – arrive at the border with their families, sometimes with a visa, sometimes without, because families sometimes cross the border daily, especially in Ceuta and Melilla, then are abandoned there and, going back to Europe, cross the Iberian peninsula and arrive in France. These are absolutely incredible life paths! The kids who join the educational programs, I repeat, have their place, and the expulsion is not appropriate. I hear what you're saying, Mrs Buffet, and I agree. It is our honour to take care of these children as well and, I repeat, expulsion and return to the country must remain within the civilian framework. However, the process needs to be improved, as some situations are unbearable. I owe it to the truth to say that in the name of a certain right-of-the-home posture, children are allowed to return to nature: it is unbearable. We have to solve this problem. Identification issues need to be addressed. The Moroccan authorities must give us a hand – and I can assure you, Madam Member, that they have committed themselves to doing so and that we are waiting, in the coming days or weeks, for the first results of this process. It is essential that we work hand in hand with Morocco, and Mr. Savignant will be able to tell you in this regard how we have pleaded our cause and confirm to you that the Moroccans have heard us and are willing to resolve this issue with all humanity that is appropriate to the age of these children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u164	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 163 and 198. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 163.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u165	It deals with the specialisation of courts. We have had this discussion in committee and are well aware that Article L.211-1 applies in very specific cases, particularly in cases of impediment, but the need for specialization must not be circumvented. If we therefore need additional resources, let us put them on, because we must be able to confirm that the principle of specialisation of courts in juvenile criminal law must not suffer from exceptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u166	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 198.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u167	At the beginning of the discussion of this text, we took note of the specialisation of juvenile justice and of all its actors. Indeed, we want 100 per cent of these actors to be specialized. This applies in particular to prosecutors – and I would like to point out that a little more than 50 per cent of criminal responses are alternatives to prosecution at the prosecutor's level, which does not go as far as children's judges or children's courts. It is therefore important, bearing in mind also that the tools provided for in the code we are discussing draw a path that translates into an increase in the power of the prosecutor's office, to have the guarantee that the criminal justice of minors will be systematically administered by specialized magistrates, and not only where possible. I would like to stress this point all the more, since I stressed this point yesterday again, citing an excerpt from the report by Mr Terlier and Mrs Untermaier referring precisely to this specialisation in the prosecution service. I know that your reluctance is due to the fact that this position is that of a union that no longer has the thanks of the rapporteur and has never had the thanks of the minister, but that is the reality! We should therefore move forward in this area. Our colleague Zumkeller's amendment has the same purpose: both at the prosecutor's office and at the headquarters, a minor must have in front of him a specialist magistrate, a point that is all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u169	The specialisation of the public prosecutor's office remains the principle, and it must be welcomed, but this principle must sometimes suffer from exceptions, which are highly regulated. The expression "in case of emergency or impediment", even if it is legally quite inaccurate, expresses the fact that in case of force majeure, it is not a specialized prosecutor who will provide this office. These exceptions must be maintained, but the principle remains.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u172	These amendments are not realistic, as the continuity of public service is mandatory. Should any activity be stopped if in a court with only one specialized prosecutor, the latter is absent for six months for health reasons?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u173	We're replacing him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u174	The reality is that, first of all, the public prosecutor's office – and this is a very big rule – is one and indivisible. Secondly, all judges receive training on juvenile justice and are therefore all specialized – sorry to remind them! As such, I would like to point out to those who are concerned about the implementation of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code that training is already ready and is only waiting for the vote of parliamentarians to be disseminated. Training of all judges, indivisible prosecution, continuity of public service: I have nothing to add. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u175	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u176	A child is asked what country he wants to live in. The child replied: "I would like to live in Theory, because in Theory, everything is always perfect. And for what concerns us here, minister, you too live in Theory. You ask us what to do when a judge is absent. It's very simple: we're replacing him! But you're telling us that if a history teacher is missing, it's no big deal, the principal will replace him for six months! That's not how things should happen. Again, this is a question of means. French justice lacks resources. You are not personally responsible,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u177	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u178	...but if you continue, you will be. Go to Bercy, complain, and we'll be behind you! In France, the justice budget is one of the weakest in Europe. It has to stop! It is not the cosmetic measures, the small means that you added to the budgets and that we denounced at the time, that will suffice. The world is changing: let us take advantage of it and give French justice the means it needs. In the end, it's not a cost, but it's savings for the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u179	That's posture!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u180	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u181	If I was not so convinced of the merits of my amendment, I would tell you to do what you have already established, little or no, in cases where there is no prosecutor at less than two hours: if you do not have a specialized prosecutor under your elbow, then do a video conference! Minister, when one lays down a principle such as that of the jurisdiction of the juvenile judge, one must manage to ensure that it is the juvenile judge who intervenes, without resorting to any judge who passes through it! The decision you have made obliges you to put the necessary means into it. It is true that as far as the means are concerned, I was not able to participate in the discussion of the second part of the finance bill in public sitting, because I had caught this damn covid -19 – but it was because the rules forced me to do so because if it had been up to me, I would have come to bother you in the Chamber. Like what, there is only the covid who can get rid of Bernalicis – I can hear you from here, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u182	Now he's talking about him in the third person! But you're not the center of the world, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u183	Fifty: that is the number of additional judges for the 2021 budget in the annual performance project, while the 2020 budget voted in 2019 provided for 100 additional posts. One part was for economic and financial justice and another for juvenile justice. Of course, this continues to increase, I do not say the opposite, but we are still far below the targets when the bulk of the budget is spent on the prison administration. If your budget is forced, you have to make arbitrations: a little less prison, a little more magistrates, it might not be worse! You can't always refer us back to the state of things to justify the exception, no! It is not possible, and I hope, Mr Minister, that you will not argue with the withdrawal amendment that I will defend after that one to claim that, in the end, I would be in favour of any judge replacing the prosecutor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u184	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u185	I note, Mr. Bernalicis, that you're talking about yourself in the third person. We understand you were stainless. Mr Bernalicis, what is the relationship between the specialization of a prosecutor and the way in which, as an exceptional measure, he can intervene, either in face-to-face or via video conferencing? You will have to explain to me, because despite your talent, I did not understand – probably because I lack the qualities that are yours. Mr Zumkeller, our budget is up 8%: that had not happened in twenty-five years! This allows us to hire an additional 2,450 officers by the end of next year. The UDI Group did not vote for this budget! At one point, you have to be consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u186	I ask for the floor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u187	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This is the fifth time that you've been talking to me about budgetary means, when you have refused to vote for an 8% increase, which has been unheard of for twenty-five years, and you're also telling me what to do! You're telling me we have to go to Bercy! Well, I went! As a result, the budget for justice is the highest. So I am sorry, I would like to receive lessons with a lot of humility, I am not talking about myself in the third person – it may come out of association with you, Mr. Bernalicis – but we must not exaggerate! Eight percent increase! 2450 hires! So if you ask me if I would have preferred a budget five times higher, the answer is yes, of course; But to the impossible no one is bound, Mr Zumkeller!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u188	Well, I'm against that budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u189	You are an eternal unsatisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u190	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 199.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u191	Personally, when I am against such a small increase, I vote against, but to everyone its consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u192	You always vote against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u193	It's up to you, and if you think it's too complicated, with 8% increase, to finance specialized parquet floors, if you think it's not possible, leave your place! I'll take care of it, no problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u194	Don't talk about misfortune!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u195	This is a debate that I think is more than legitimate. When the bulk of the increase in criminal means is absorbed by the increase in the costs of judicial expertise, I wonder how such arbitration is possible. Either there were too many expenses to pay, too many late bills – I know how it happens in departments – or maybe it wasn't the priority objective. So tell us, minister, how many of these additional 2,450 positions were judicial positions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u196	Fifty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u197	Fifty! Fifty magistrates may not be enough. The arbitration between you and Bercy is one thing, but there is also arbitration within your budget, and that's why I voted against it, like the rest of my group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u198	You always vote against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u199	Your own budget arbitrations are not up to the stakes and needs, that's all. By this withdrawal amendment, we propose that this substitution be at least motivated, so that it does not become a routine for some prosecutors on the grounds that the law allows for derogation from the obligation of a specialized judiciary and that they could not do otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u201	This clarification does not seem useful: unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u203	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u204	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u205	We are told that the formations are ready and that it would be enough to press the button. However, I would have a little question, minister, to avoid the disappointments that we have experienced, for example, with the law of programming for justice or Cassiopeia – we are talking about Cassiopeia? Is everything really ready or will it be necessary, as with the single referral to the courts, to postpone its implementation, when it finally appears that it does not work? Leave to go down in detail, the concrete, even if it is to show pragmatism and realism, explain to us what it is about Cassiopeia!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u206	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u207	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I was surprised, Mr. Chairman, that you did not allow me to respond when the minister questioned the IUD group, of which I am the representative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u208	There is a right of reply after the opinion of the rapporteur and the minister. In this case, this right of reply could be exercised, after which the minister took the floor, as he has the right to speak. This does not reopen a right of speech and a right of reply. This was therefore the traditional application of the Regulation. You have the floor for two minutes: I'll leave it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u209	Let me tell you that this is not a very intelligent operation: I could have made a point of order or asked for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u210	That's your right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u211	I preferred not to do so, but since the minister questioned the entire IDU group, it seemed to me normal to be able to answer it – it is a conception of democracy that can be agreed! We did not vote for this budget, as we did not vote for Mrs Belloubet's programming law either, because we had shown that it was possible to align our justice budget with that of Spain, which is not the highest in Europe, but simply a little higher than ours. We are therefore well-coherent, and we continue to say what we have been saying for years: French justice lacks resources. We'll keep saying it, and if you're going to knock at Bercy's door, we'll be by your side. So do not say that the IDU group is not consistent or that we are not in favour of better justice. On the contrary, we are very much in favour of better justice, and it will only be possible if we really do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u212	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u213	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 199, of which we have finally not discussed...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u214	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u215	Mr President, you have not listened to me well: I have said that Amendment No 199 tends to impose the motivation for substitution. In fact, the minister shook up and made no head. It was, of course, quickly defended, but it is part of a whole and the argument that I have already put forward applies to this amendment too, since we propose that the investigating judge should also be specialised. In the area of juvenile justice, the delays are extremely long: it is said that it is necessary to set up the caesure within three months because it has to go faster, but it does not concern the investigation. However, it is the investigation files that are the longest. From this point of view, it will not change anything – and it is a pity – if we do not grant additional resources to have more investigating judges, who are also specialized. This amendment applies to the case of investigating judges one of the main principles that we have listed at the beginning of the examination of this text: that of specialization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u216	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u217	The clarification is unnecessary, since already satisfied: I refer you to section 12(1), which provides for the specialisation of the investigating judge. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u218	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u219	[[Smile]] The guard of the seals is unfavorable. That's the third person!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u220	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 94, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u221	With this amendment, we want to give the juvenile court a real specialisation. We propose that the members of the jury be assessors in the Children's Court. These specialized assessors are recognized for their level of competence in the particular field of childhood. We consider that the jury of the juvenile assize court must be a jury of specialists, or at least connoisseurs of adolescence and childhood.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u222	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u223	I am very surprised by your distrust of popular jurors drawn by lot: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u224	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u225	Forgive me, Mrs Faucillon, but it's a gas factory! I don't know how we're going to find enough jurors, how they can be drawn by lot, etc. This also reflects a form of mistrust of the popular jury. It should be remembered that the court already benefits from the advice of specialized magistrates, since the court of assizes of minors is already a specialized court. I find it difficult to understand: I am totally against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u226	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u227	We can discuss the relevance or not of our proposal – I have no concern with that, it is part of the parliamentary work. But if you were to claim that our proposal is a sign of distrust of the popular jury, this is a trial of intent. That the search for specialization is necessarily defiance, I find that this is an argument a little "limit" while our proposal is in line with the principle of the specificity of child justice, to which you hold just as much as we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u228	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u229	I ask for a suspension of the sitting for a few moments to allow the minister to meditate on the use of the first and third persons in the French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u230	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u231	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u232	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, in support of Amendment No 202, which sets out the additional rule after Rule 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u233	The amendment seeks to clarify that a judge of liberty and detention in cases involving minors must be specialized in juvenile justice. As the subject is presented differently and dealt with elsewhere in the text, I would like to make two comments. On the one hand, I regret that what has been possible for the judge of freedoms and detention is not so formal for other actors in the justice system. On the other hand, the fact that we're ratifying an order instead of looking at a classic bill leads us to chain things up a bit in a mess. If the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code had been introduced in the form of a succession of sections of a bill, we would have dealt with the issues in some order and we could have signed up to intervene on each of the chapters. The discussions would probably have been clearer and more effective. On the contrary, when we consider our next amendment, we will have to go back to what we said two days ago. We risk being a little lost, but we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u234	We'll be able to follow, Mr. Bernalicis. Don't worry! What is the committee's opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u235	Unfavorable opinion. There are many guarantees which, in our view, do not make it necessary for the judge to specialize in freedoms and detention. In any case, you will be pleased later, since we will expand the prerogatives of the JLD.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u236	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 203.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u237	It is intended to amend article L. 231-2 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code so that the juvenile judge is aware of all the offences committed by minors – from the first to the fifth class – while some of them are in the state of the police court. Perhaps these are often small offences, but in some cases, especially when contraventions multiply, we can deal with children "in conflict with the law", which often hides other things that the child judge is able to better grasp, especially because he or she has civil jurisdiction. The case of road traffic offences is complex, especially for minors under the age of 16 – and I am not talking about those under the age of 14, although we could have introduced an irreflagable presumption of criminal irresponsibility, I am not going back to that. We see the interest of the juvenile judge from the first offence, especially since he is both caring for minors – this has been repeated throughout the debates – and specialized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u238	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u239	Unfavorable opinion. We have already discussed this subject on several occasions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u240	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u241	This is the tenth time that we have said the same thing and, for the tenth time, we do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u242	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u243	Perhaps the eleventh time will be the right one; You must not despair of anything! And then, sometimes things change: you were not yet in charge of the seals, and I was already a member of parliament when the members of the running Republic group said, for example, that they would never, under any circumstances, allow mayors to access the FSPRT, the file of reports for the prevention of radicalisation of a terrorist nature – it is an intelligence file they explained to us, the mayors do not have to consult it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u244	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u245	Six or seven months later, Mr Christophe Castaner, Minister of the Interior, became president of the same group in our assembly, took a decree to allow mayors to access the FSPRT. Even if this shift is not right for us, it shows at least that we sometimes have to hold on. Who knows?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u246	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u247	Mr Bernalicis, Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon was socialist minister and he became revolutionary at 70: everyone changes, and everyone has the right to change.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u248	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 204.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u249	It follows the same logic as the previous one – the juvenile court must deal with all the violations committed by minors – and makes it possible to recall the importance of the principle of speciality. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, there is no obligation to do so, but it is still preferable for you to address the people present rather than those who are not here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u250	And Mr. Castaner, is he here?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u251	Of course, I myself quoted Mr Castaner – if we could contact him and have him come, that would make it easier for me, we could talk. [[Mr Gilles Le Gendre and Mr Pacôme Rupin exclaimed]] On the basis of your remark, before François Hollande went through this with Manuel Valls, it was clear in the Socialist Party's statutes that it was a revolutionary party. I myself made an express passage to the Socialist Party... Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you're not listening to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u252	What does this have to do with the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u253	Mr Bernalicis, please continue to support the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u254	On that occasion, I voted against the withdrawal of the reference to the revolutionary character of this party. I then followed another political path that brings me to this House, in complete coherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u255	It's very interesting, Mr Bernalicis, but could you defend your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u256	It's already done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u257	The amendment is forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u258	The amendment rejects the principle of speciality which we have included in the preliminary title of the code so that violations are the responsibility of the juvenile judge and not the police court. And this has something to do with revolutionary socialism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u259	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u260	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u261	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u262	Unfavorable opinion. Mr Bernalicis, I readily concede, it is not good to talk about people when they are not there, but it is you who started: I am looking for Mr Castaner... I do not see him. This is the shepherd's answer to the shepherd's house, if you will allow me this metaphor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u263	I have before me two identical amendments, No 346 corrected and 399 corrected. Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support Amendment No. 346 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u264	[[Smile]] I hope that no one will blame me for coming back to the bottom of the text. We have had a very interesting debate in committee on pre-trial detention and the involvement of the judge of freedoms and detention. We shall come back to that on the occasion of another amendment, but this amendment is specifically aimed at giving the Special Chamber of Minors jurisdiction to hear appeals against the decisions of the judge of liberty and detention in the matter of pretrial detention of minors. Only the appeal against the decision of the judge of liberty and detention taken in the context of a judicial inquiry procedure would remain within the competence of the investigating chamber. We are all particularly committed to the principle of specialisation which the amendment reconciles with that of impartiality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u265	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 399 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u266	He's forbidden. My colleague has just said everything excellently.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u267	What is the Government's opinion on the identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u268	As long as the judge of freedoms and detention intervenes in detention, it is consistent to adopt these amendments. It's common sense itself. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u269	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u270	Even if it is a position of withdrawal for us – it is not our mindset to ask who plays what role in incarceration – it seems to us rather positive to go in that direction. I am therefore quite in favour of the amendments, but, Mr Keeper of the Seals, you have already put forward the same arguments. There was no need to call them back. Let's move on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u271	Yes, let's move on! It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u272	I want what I want, Mr. Bernalicis. I am an unsubstantiated minister, at least I am not subject to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u273	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u274	The juvenile assize court is competent for crimes committed by minors between the ages of 16 and 18 at the time of the offence. According to article L. 231-10 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code: "The two assessors of the juvenile assize court shall be taken, unless impossible, from among the judges of the children under the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal. We recall that, in accordance with the principle of specialisation of juvenile justice, juvenile offenders must be exempted from ordinary criminal courts, since they must be protected at the same time as they must be punished. The special nature of its situation requires that it be dealt with by specialized magistrates, both at the stage of investigation and at the stage of judgement. That is why we ask that the words "unless impossible" be deleted from article L.231-10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u275	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u276	The proposed derogation does not call into question the specialisation of the court. At the same time, it is sometimes very complicated to bring together three children's judges. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u277	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u278	We will only be able to derogate from the rule on an exceptional basis, as you know. Your amendment makes sense, but if we do not find the right number of specialized magistrates, the case will have to be referred back, which means that the minor would be kept in detention; Do you think it's in his favor? I'm not convinced at all. He has the right to be tried within a reasonable time. The situation you are talking about will be quite exceptional. It seems to me that the removal of these terms would have more disadvantages than advantages. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u279	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u280	I am sure that if we adopt the amendment, on which your opinion seems to be quite favourable before a "but" happens, the DSJ, the Directorate of Judicial Services, would make some efforts not to refer cases and to ensure that any possible pre-trial detention does not extend to the detriment of the minor concerned. I am confident that all measures will be taken to ensure that the number of children's judges is sufficient to find assessors. It is, however, simpler to reject the amendment, i.e. to allow all exceptions to be progressively validated, even though it has previously been recognised as an essential principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u281	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u282	We need to know what we're talking about. Mr. Bernalicis, it is not the DSJ that returns the cases. You're off the ground. I'll tell you how it goes: Monday morning, at nine o'clock, when the hearing begins, we find that a child judge unfortunately had an accident on his way. He's not here, can we find another child judge? No. Can he be replaced by another magistrate? This is the question that arises in exceptional situations. What's DSJ doing in there? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u283	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 205.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u284	This amendment, on the transmission of information, is important to me. Article L. 241-2 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code may appear to be common sense since it allows professionals, who supervise a young person as part of educational measures, to communicate with each other and to exchange various information specified in the text of the article. However, with regard to schools, this means in practice that the educator of the judicial protection of the juvenile who follows the minor will communicate the information which he considers useful – according to the criteria of article L. 241-2 – to the senior education adviser – CPE – who is not subject to the same professional secrecy as a social worker or nurse in the school environment. This is a common case: because there is a problem or there is no social worker, the CPE – or the head of the institution – is the teacher's interlocutor. As a result, information circulates to different categories of professionals, whereas, until now, it has been the responsibility of the magistrate to decide which information – sometimes sensitive – could be transmitted and to whom it could be transmitted. This is all the more important as the functioning of the judicial protection of young people has changed. At one time, it managed both civil and criminal matters; Thus, when an educator arrived at a school to supervise a young person, it was not known whether the latter was being cared for for offences or not. From now on, we know – certainly – that if he is accompanied, it is because he has committed a criminal offence. I leave this aspect aside, which, however, is in addition to the situation. When it comes to educational measures and follow-up for sometimes rather serious facts – linked, for example, to sexual assaults – I am not sure that everyone needs to know them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u285	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u286	The fact that the transmission of information remains in the hands of a magistrate seems to me to provide a minimum of guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u288	This is an unfavourable opinion: it is not appropriate to involve the judge at this stage, as an interface between the judicial protection of young people and schools; It would add slowness and heaviness. Children's judges already have enough to do not to serve as a mailbox to transmit to Peter, Paul or James information that they can exchange with each other in a fluid way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u290	Unfavorable opinion
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u291	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u292	I understand the idea of protecting children's privacy. But, in practice, we are talking about school staff – a school head, a CPE, a school nurse, professionals who protect children every day. Their work revolves around education and the interests of children. They care a lot about it. Let's trust them. As for the educators of the judicial protection of young people, they know very well the minors they supervise...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u293	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u294	...and God knows that they are acting in their best interests. Mr Bernalicis, you want them to pass through a judge to exchange information on a daily basis: this increase in the procedure makes no sense, runs counter to the interests of minors and represents a degree of distrust towards these professionals. They must be able to work together in the interests of minors, which sometimes requires some information. An educator of the judicial protection of young people will only disseminate information if it is strictly necessary. [[Ms. Sandrine Mörch applauds]] In addition, our fellow citizens need to know that the text provides guarantees: the professionals concerned can exchange with each other all information relating to a minor, provided that they are strictly necessary for his or her care, judicial follow-up or the continuity of his or her journey; It's still very framed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u295	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u296	I fully understand the intention of our colleague Ugo Bernalicis. As part of the fact-finding mission on juvenile justice, we have worked hard on the link between education, juvenile justice and early school leaving. In this way, we felt it was essential for the disciplinary board to decide on the exclusion of a student from the school to be informed of the problems he had encountered. Article L. 241-2 therefore seems to me to be a step in the right direction. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I still wanted to alert you on one point: the national education says that there are no children excluded from the list of institutions. This does not correspond to the reality: many children are under the radars of national education and, in case of exclusion, very often the institution has an interest in removing the child's name. It therefore seems to us essential to clarify, at the regulatory level – not in this text – that any excluded child must be attached to a school. If you are interested in juvenile justice, you should also be concerned about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u297	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u298	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u299	[[Ms. Marie-George Buffet, Ms. Sandrine Mörch and Mr. Erwan Balanant applaud]] The exclusion of an institution must not be the definitive exclusion from the school system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u300	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 149.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u301	The only criterion for determining whether the appropriate adult is not acceptable must be the best interests of the child. This criterion will be used by the public prosecutor, the juvenile judge or the investigating judge to designate the appropriate adult if the minor has not appointed an adult acceptable to the competent authority. Yesterday, the Assembly adopted an amendment incorporating, in the preliminary article of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors, the concept of the best interests of the child. I was obviously very supportive of it. I am not going to go back to what happened last week in the context of the review of the bill to reform adoption: in civil matters, with regard to adoption, the concept of the best interests of the child has not been retained... In order to harmonize the texts, I believe that this concept should be reflected in article L. 311-2 of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u303	This is an unfavourable opinion: since the concept of the best interests of the child has already been introduced in the preliminary article of the Code, your request seems to me satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u304	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u305	Unfavorable opinion. Mrs Ménard, we have been talking for more than ten hours about the interests of the child; It's the only criterion that's worth it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u306	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 363.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u307	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u308	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 291, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u309	I am changing the subject, although the best interests of the child obviously underlie all the texts which are examined here when they deal with minors. In all circumstances, counsel for the civil party should have access to the unique personality file. This would enable the victim to prepare the trial as best as possible, while at the same time providing a guarantee of equality of arms before the judge and ensuring better respect for the principle of adversarial rights. The children's judges with whom I have dealt with this subject do not mind that the civil party has access to the single personality file. Indeed, since the personality of the juvenile offender is already much described in the course of the proceedings, the single personality file contains relatively few secret or private elements. In accordance with the adversarial principle, it might be interesting for the defence counsel for the civil party to be aware of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u310	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u311	Article L. 322-10 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code allows the juvenile judge to object to the communication of certain information to the lawyers of the civil parties, only if it has been collected in the context of educational assistance procedures to which the minor has been subjected – and which are therefore not necessarily of interest in the proceedings. In addition, the refusal to disclose documents must be motivated by the interests of the child. The exceptions are thus very limited. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u313	Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons. Some information, of particular sensitivity, does not have to be brought to the attention of all. Again, it is a form of protection: some children find themselves in such a situation that what has happened to them does not always look at the whole earth. Would it be useful to the lawyers of the civil party, to know, for example, that a child was the victim of incest? I'm not convinced at all. This is, of course, a specific breach of the adversarial rule, but it seems essential to me, because it is in line with the protection of minors that you have invoked, Madam Member, in defending the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u314	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u315	I hear exactly what you're saying, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. Little flat: you say that certain information does not have to be brought to the knowledge of the whole earth; In this case, it is only the lawyer of the civil parties. Nevertheless, I understand your arguments...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u316	So you're withdrawing your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u317	... and, because I am sensitive to it, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u318	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 365, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u319	It's editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u320	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 206.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u321	The aim is to prohibit the imposition of an educational measure in the absence of the minor. The Code provides for this possibility on the ground – the subject has been mentioned in committee – that if the minor does not appear, it is still necessary to be able to advance, impose the sentence and make his execution provisional. As for an educational measure, the least that could be done would be to explain it to the minor. Otherwise, its scope will be limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u322	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u323	You propose that an educational measure cannot be imposed in the absence of the minor. That's a really bad idea. Imagine that the minor's lawyer advised him not to appear at the hearing, in order to be sure that an educational measure would not be imposed against him. That would be very counterproductive. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u324	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u325	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u326	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u327	I move on to the rapporteur's disparaging comment about lawyers who would advise their client of a little strange things. I thought you would take up the same arguments as in committee – telling me that the procedure must be able to move forward, even in the absence of the minor. Would the magistrate not be able to allow the minor to be present at the hearing if he wished to issue an educational measure? No. If the minor does not present himself for the first time, a second time..., he may decide to grant a warrant to bring. It is a little less attractive for the minor than if he comes voluntarily, but it is better than if he does not come at all and the educational measure is pronounced in his absence, because it is necessary for him to hear why he takes it, why he must carry it out, under what conditions... Otherwise, it is no longer an educational measure but only a sentence imposed, whether it is there or not. I adjure you to understand my feeling: when you take an educational measure, the minimum is that it can be explained to the person it concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u328	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u329	We reaffirm, through this amendment, our opposition to electronic monitoring for minors. Home detention under electronic supervision, the DDSE, is, for them, completely inadequate. I regret in passing that we do not get an argumented answer to some of our amendments, as in the previous one: how, indeed, does this happen in practice when we issue an educational measure, how do we get the minor to appear before the judge? Here, you consider that putting an electronic bracelet on the minor is better than putting him in custody. We saw him yesterday: even if closed educational centres were built to offer an alternative to placing minors in the prisons intended for them, we did not stop incarcerated. The principle of communicating vases does not work; alternative measures have not proved their effectiveness, that is to say the least, and the new tools are used in addition to those they are intended to replace. It is already complicated for a major to know what an electronic bracelet means – several studies have shown – but for a minor it is a catastrophic measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u331	Unfavorable opinion. The use of the electronic bracelet is carried out under very precise conditions for a minor of at least 16 years of age who is liable to a term of imprisonment of 3 years or more. Such arrangements may be relevant in order to avoid detention or placement, especially when the minor has to remain in his or her family environment and continue his or her education or training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u332	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u333	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u334	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u335	We are not obliged to go beyond the house arrest with electronic surveillance, the ARSE, we can stay below: other measures are possible without the need to put a bracelet around the ankle of the minor and which enable us to achieve the same result. I'm thinking about judicial review... And how do we do it today when the installation of an electronic bracelet is not in force? Don't tell me that in 100 per cent of cases the minor is placed in pre-trial detention... Of course, this happens, unfortunately, and, once again, I am not sure that tomorrow there will be more ARSE than pre-trial detention. The way I analyze the code, which I examine the text, is that there may be fewer children in pre-trial detention, but more in detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u336	Amendments Nos 119 and 106 by Mr Eric Ciotti, containing additional articles after Article 6, are to be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u337	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to support Amendment No. 305.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u338	I am convinced that the judicial protection of young people must do more. For years, however, there has been a decline in JJP, particularly with regard to the investigation when a minor is brought before a judge. The judicial measures of educational investigation, the MJIE, are taken either by the PJJ or by the voluntary sector. Depending on the decision that will then be taken, the minor in question can be reintegrated into the education sector – which has assessed him. It is necessary to achieve a better separation between the JJP and the voluntary sector in order to avoid the latter being judged and part of it because, even if there are very few cases and the vast majority of the voluntary sector is doing its job very well, it is still necessary for the latter to fill the places of its institutions. I therefore believe that the assessment of minors must be independent. That is why I would like us to take advantage of the revision of the Order of 2 February 1945 to reaffirm that it is the PJJ and it alone that must take the judicial measures of educational investigation. I therefore propose that at the end of the third paragraph of article L. 322-7 of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors, the words "or the authorized voluntary sector" be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u339	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u340	I am against your amendment, Mrs Goulet. The possibility must be left to the authorized voluntary sector to apply these measures taken, I would point out, by the judge, in particular with regard to the assessment of minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u341	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u342	The voluntary sector authorized by the PJJ and all minors who are subject to a judicial measure of educational investigation are not necessarily placed. In these circumstances, I kindly propose that you withdraw your amendment, otherwise I will express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u343	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 151.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u344	We began yesterday's discussion on the amendment of article L. 331-2 of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors so that when the competent magistrate forbids the minor from coming into contact with a certain person – obviously his victim – this prohibition provides for the attempt to come into contact on the same basis as the actual contact. You answer me every time my amendment is satisfied, but I am not convinced of it and I think it is better to be explicit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u345	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u346	You want the prohibition to come into contact with a certain person also concerns the intention to come into contact with it. We have already discussed this in committee: it seems very complicated to prove this intention. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u347	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u348	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u349	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u350	I'm not talking about intent, I'm talking about attempt, which is not the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u351	"Tentative", indeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u352	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 292.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u353	The purpose of this amendment is to allow the detention of a minor who fails to comply with his or her obligations under Article L. 331-2, whatever they may be. A minor may be held in detention under certain conditions and where there are several plausible grounds for suspecting that he has failed to fulfil certain obligations such as not leaving the boundaries of the territory established by the judge, not being absent from his domicile or the residence designated by the judge, not going to certain places mentioned by the judge... There are also violations of certain obligations that are not sanctioned, such as participation in demonstrations on the public highway. Detention is already very regulated – and it is happy because a minor should not be lightly detained – but I do not understand why this distinction is made, since these exceptions are likely to blur the legibility of the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u354	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u355	The logic of this article is to lay down very precisely the obligations the violation of which allows the minor to be placed in judicial detention. We want to identify them accurately, I insist. It is therefore not appropriate to delete the reference to the obligations specified in Article L. 331-7. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u356	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u357	You propose an alignment of the regime of minors with that of the majors. However, the great constitutional principle of reducing criminal responsibility according to age has been repeatedly recalled. I am therefore against your amendment, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u358	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u359	I hear your answer, Mr rapporteur, Mr Minister, but I do not understand the distinction made, for example, between failure to comply with the obligation not to go to a place and failure to comply with the obligation not to demonstrate in a public place. The distinction between the gravity of the breach is somewhat out of my mind, which is why I propose the deletion of the exceptions provided for in Article L. 331-7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u360	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 269.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u361	In line with our proposal to introduce an irrefutable presumption of non-discrimination below the age of 14, we propose to prohibit any pre-trial detention of a child under the age of 14. Moreover, in checking the architecture of the code, it is clear that the ARSE can only be pronounced for a minor over the age of 16, precisely because it is a somewhat special measure – which I also find not good for a minor. I know that the aim put forward by the minister, by the rapporteur, by the majority is to reduce the number of minors in pre-trial detention. Here, I propose a tool that goes in this direction: no pre-trial detention for those under 14 years of age. Is this the only tool we had? Are we poor? Absolutely not. We have, in the course of examining the code, ginned all the existing devices, some of which we think are excessive. I do not intend to trust the judge in order to pronounce such a detention. I am in favour of him not being able to do so for minors under the age of 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u363	We have already had this debate on minors under 13 years of age. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u365	Unfavorable. For the hundredth time... We have raised this issue for five or six hours in a row, if we total them...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u366	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u367	I will not make a count and I am not sure that we spent five or six hours discussing this issue. It doesn't matter: even if we had to talk about it for eight hours or even fifty hours, minister, it wouldn't change anything. We have the right to discuss it for as long as necessary and as we wish. I would also like to tell you that when we talk about new things that have nothing to do with the age of minors, you sometimes remain silent. There is therefore no rule on this matter. The one according to which, "since we've talked about it, I'm not telling you anything" and the one according to which, "since we haven't talked about it, I'm going to express myself" are not... We, too, do what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u368	Me too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u369	This is about pre-trial detention. You can make beautiful sentences on the theme: "With our text, there will be fewer young people, fewer children in pre-trial detention. Frankly, I hope so. But that reminds me when Nicole Belloubet told us that sentences of less than six months would no longer be handed down and that there would therefore be fewer people in prison thanks to the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u370	Mrs Belloubet is not here to answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u371	However, the covid-19 had a greater impact than the programming law, despite the application of which sentences of imprisonment of less than six months continue to be imposed, which is confirmed to me every time I visit a prison. So I still have a little doubt about the adequacy of the displayed will with what a text under discussion will produce. For this purpose, the implementation of this bill will ensure that young people will continue to be held in pre-trial detention...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u372	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u373	This is an amendment to clarify the principle of article L. 334-1 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, which provides that a minor under the age of 13 may not be placed in pre-trial detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u374	That too, if we haven't seen him a hundred times already!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u375	This is obviously an absolute principle, but I propose, as we have been discussing since yesterday, to leave a margin of appreciation to the magistrate again, by supplementing this article with the words "except in exceptional circumstances". The order already enshrines very strictly the detention of minors and, once again, it is happy, normal, because we are talking about minors, and very young minors, but, with regard to a procedure already reserved for the most serious cases, one can imagine that the magistrate, who has a capacity for discernment and to whom, I hope, we all trust, can, in extremely circumscribed cases, in exceptional circumstances, possibly derogate from this rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u376	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u377	Very unfavourable opinion. You want a minor under the age of 13 to be placed in pre-trial detention. Even with exceptional circumstances, this is not the philosophy of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u378	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u379	The simple fact that you can imagine a 12-year-old in prison, ma'am, makes me shudder. I am totally, not unfavorable, but hostile.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. Keeper of the Seals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u381	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u382	I find this amendment extremely shocking. A child aged 10-12 does not have his or her place in custody, much less in pre-trial detention when he or she is presumed innocent. A child does not have the same psyche as an adult. The principle of this reform is that detention, especially pre-trial detention, must be the exception, its objective is that there should be fewer pre-trial detentions, which are too frequent in France. This is important for the minor because, in practice, in most cases, he has already served his sentence when he is tried: the judge often pronounces a verdict that covers pre-trial detention. This poses a problem of meaning, which the child served his sentence before being tried. It is necessary to restore meaning to grief and above all to remain faithful to our principles: it has been a long time since France closed the children of this age. It's a great step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u383	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u384	I agree with the remarks made by Mrs Louis and by the keeper of the seals, whom I thank. The adoption of the amendment would put us apart in Europe as we work towards European justice. I think it's amazing to think we're going to be in jail for 13 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u385	I ask for the floor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u386	I give the floor to only two speakers on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u387	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 121 and 135. Amendment No 121 by Mr Eric Ciotti is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u388	I made it clear that these were exceptional circumstances and that the decision was left to the judge's discretion. I imagine that this could only happen in a very rare way: for reasons of preservation of the evidence or to avoid intimidation of the victim or his entourage. It's not a completely incongruous idea.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u389	It's a vision of society!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u390	Having said that, I stressed that he was pleased that for minors, especially for the youngest, the principle was the prohibition of detention; We agree and I was only talking about exceptional circumstances. Let me turn to Amendment No 135. While we understand the idea of keeping the minor as safe as possible from custodial measures, in some cases...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u391	What case?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u392	... pre-trial detention is not only useful but may also be necessary, in case of serious crime, simply. You seem to think that a 12-year-old can't commit a serious crime, but it happens – in an exceptional way, but it happens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u393	We put them in a home in those cases!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u394	This article so conditions the possible detention of a minor that it makes it impracticable. That is why I proposed the mention of exceptional circumstances and the judge's free assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u395	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u396	Even on an exceptional basis, it is not possible or even acceptable for a minor under the age of 13 to be placed in pre-trial detention. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u397	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u398	When I went to a closed educational centre, Madame Ménard, I saw children totally lost and I remembered Cioran's thought: "Every man desperately clings to his bad star. » I said to Mrs Le Pen yesterday: "Your program is the prison – I should have said 'the prison' – from 7 to 77 years old. It is not because a 12-year-old would commit a serious crime that he is no longer a child. Besides, it is not prison or nothing but a care, already organized by the ordinance of 1945: a 12-year-old who commits a serious crime is not delivered to himself. I have no advice to give, ma'am, but from time to time we can reread the great authors, the great humanists,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u399	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u400	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...the men and women who honor our country. I think for example of Victor Hugo: "He who opens a door to a school, closes a prison", education, education... There are three amendments, you wanted to devote the education, and now you propose that we put a 12-year-old in prison. Let's look to the sky. What's a 12-year-old? How can we imagine a 12-year-old being thrown into jail? It would be a setback, a negation of our principles. I don't even understand that you can offer it. It is to tell you how totally, humanly, viscerally, personally, and ministerially unfavorable I am there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u401	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u402	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u403	Thank you, Mr. Keeper of Seals, for these words of humanism. I was also going to quote Hugo. Yes, a child can commit a crime, but there is still a child, a fragile being who needs to be accompanied. Mrs Ménard, what exceptional circumstances would put a child in prison? That is the question I am asking myself, and I would like to know what would allow, in our modern society, in 2020, to put a child under the age of 13 in prison. It's amazing. My arms are falling off me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u404	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u405	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u406	I welcome the arguments and determination of the Minister, the rapporteur and our colleague Balanant on this matter. What's the justification for throwing a 12-year-old in jail? But a 13-year-old and one day, I'm not sure it's much better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u407	The conditions are very low!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u408	It's rare!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u409	I wish we could have shown such determination, vigour, voluntarism, argumentation, humanism for children under the age of 14, who are still children. And, to go further, I'd say even for those under the age of 16 are also kids. I retain and support your argument that a child who has committed a crime is first and foremost a child, therefore a minor in danger, a child to be protected. I say this all the more because we have seen some exceptions in this code and we will see others. I regret that this argument, which is so beautiful, stops at a somewhat strange border, at the age of 13 and one day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u410	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u411	I took great care, in my argument, to moderate my remarks by explaining that these were exceptional circumstances and that all this was left to the discretion of the magistrates, but you tell me that I am a monster.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u412	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u413	I'm used to it, in this Chamber I'm still the monster, but it's not very serious. I want, you say, "to throw away" these poor children in prison. No, it's not about throwing children in jail, in the midst of dangerous adult criminals who would make it a bite. I will not reply to Mr Balanant because unfortunately I could quote dozens of examples, but, Mr Minister, when I make my point, do me the pleasure of not responding in a caricatural way, because it serves the debate. I don't think I'm in parliamentary obstruction,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u414	That's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u415	...I don't think I can argue by defending amendments; We have the right not to agree and often we do not agree on criminal matters, but at least do not caricature my remarks. It is not about inhumanity, monstrosity, and it is obviously not about throwing poor children into unhealthy jails. You know this all the better – and that is why I regret this bad faith – that a minor, regardless of the gravity of the crime he commits, will remain tried as a minor, and the detention will obviously be adapted to his age, a fortiori when it comes to a very young age. So do not caricature, because it serves the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u416	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u417	I often advise young women or men who engage in politics to read Victor Hugo's parliamentary speeches on children, but also women's rights, a subject on which he was particularly modern.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u418	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u419	Yes, we must open classes and close prisons: all States should put this advice into practice. Madame Ménard, what is an exceptional circumstance? A crime? But our society is capable – or it is to despair – of ensuring, in spite of a crime, that a child under the age of 13 can pursue an educational approach that allows him to rebuild himself and to be a man or woman of benefit to our society tomorrow. That's the bet we have to make. We are a democratic society, carried by humanism, and the bet must be that one. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] Prison cannot be the solution for a minor. Prison staff, who are very dedicated, do not have the qualifications to look after children of this age. You're not being sued, Mrs. Ménard. We just want to have some idea of our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u420	We have to open schools!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u421	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u422	Madame Ménard, for my part, I did not accuse you of bad faith! A society that is afraid of its children is a desperate society. Alas, manicheism is well on the side of extremes... I said what I thought of a 12-year-old in prison and I was accused of wanting to throw the 13-year-olds in. That's not true! The 13-year threshold was set by the Ordinance of 2 February 1945 on delinquent childhood – a threshold is needed – but detention beyond that age must obviously meet exceptional conditions. The idea of a 13-year-old in prison seems just as shocking to me as the idea of a 12-year-old in prison! However, a limit must be set, which Europe has done, as is the case with all the major democratic countries. This limit is doubtless questionable and one can object to it for philosophical reasons, but the law must set one. The right balance between heart and reason is sometimes difficult to achieve. You are right, Mrs Marie-George Buffet, we must read Victor Hugo's parliamentary speeches on women, children, the death penalty and so many other issues. However, I believe that one point has to be clarified in this debate, which I know is being followed closely: I do not want anyone to think that beyond 13 years, everything is allowed. It's not true, it's not my conception of things and I know it's not yours either. Detention is sometimes necessary, unfortunately, from this age. It is the rigour of the law, which does not embarrass feelings and emotions because it must be effective and effective. This 13-year limit, of course, I regret it. I wish I could tell you that no minor is going to jail. However, that would be neither realistic nor acceptable: I would like to make it clear. But there are not those under 13 years of age, for whom we would cry, on the one hand, and those over 13 years of age, on the other hand, for which we would allow. That is not the philosophy of the bill. We have repeated it many times, because it is important to us, and we will repeat it again: primacy is educative. Children 12 or 13 years of age who commit serious acts have often had a torn, shredded childhood. This is what, on the right hand side of the House, is called "the culture of apology" and which I, for my part, call "the reality of life". We have a duty to examine their situation with great compassion, consideration and humanity. In this regard, I do not give lessons to anyone; I just express what I think. It is an honour for me to defend this bill that reaffirms the primacy of education over repression, whatever may be said by some who, in the name of their dogma, refuse to see the text as it is. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This will reduce pre-trial detention for minors. I am convinced of that, and I am convinced of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u423	I have before me four amendments, Nos 281, 434, 1 and 97, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 281 and 434 are identical. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 281.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u424	When we tabled this amendment in committee, the rapporteur undertook to reflect on it before the public sitting. Here we go! We propose, I would remind you, that only the JLD be given the power to order a measure of pre-trial detention against a minor who is at least 13 years of age. The Juvenile Criminal Justice Code gives the juvenile judge the opportunity to order or extend such a measure while he is already sitting in the juvenile court. The juvenile judge is, in a way, judge and party. In other words, the current system does not offer the guarantee of an external look at the situation of the child and the consequences, for him or her, of a measure of deprivation of liberty – which brings us back to the previous debate. This amendment is discussed jointly with other amendments, including an identical amendment tabled on the initiative of a Member of the majority. I am pleased that we can move forward on this type of issue. Mr Keeper of the Seals, perhaps there will be fewer provisional detentions of minors in the future – I hope so! –, but this decline must not, at the end, translate into a greater number of detentions all at once; Otherwise, we would have missed the goal that you're displaying and that I share: that there are fewer children locked up. However, the mechanics of the juvenile criminal justice code and what it seeks to do give me some doubts...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u425	I call Mr Mazars to support Amendment No. 434.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u426	We will never recall enough here that pretrial detention of minors must be exceptional, including for a minor under 18 years of age less a day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u427	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u428	Mr. As Bernalicis has just said, the proposal to entrust only the JLD with the power to order a pre-trial detention order against a minor at least 13 years of age has been the subject of an in-depth debate in committee, as many Members of the majority have expressed the wish that the decision on this measure should not be made by the JLD, but by the JLD. We believe that there is a potential risk of bias on the part of a juvenile judge who would rule on the pretrial detention of a minor, then on the merits of the case, i.e. guilt and sentence. This is a first challenge, which raises constitutional difficulties. We are also many, including Mrs Untermaier, who would like to see a double look at remand in custody – which I repeat should remain an exceptional measure. This is why we propose, as a first step, the intervention of the juvenile judge, who is familiar with the minor and who may consider the possibility of placing the minor in pre-trial detention, and, in a second step, in the final decision, the intervention of the JLD, a specialist magistrate in the matter of pre-trial detention. That is the meaning of this amendment supported by a large number of Members of the majority. I understand that the Government is in favour of this. I welcome the convergence of our positions, which is a real step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u429	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u430	At the same time, I will defend Amendments Nos 1 and 97, which are in line with Mr Mazars' amendment. First of all, I would like to point out that the pretrial detention of the minor must be exceptional, including beyond the age of 13. On the other hand, let us not suggest that things always go wrong when a minor is detained. In the juvenile ward of the Varennes-le-Grand prison, I found, during a visit, that extraordinary work was carried out by prison guards with minors, that relations were very good and that national education staff were regularly involved. Let us therefore make sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we take stock of our comments on the pretrial detention of minors. However, the pretrial detention of the minor is a serious measure, which, in our view, must be the responsibility of a specialized judge, the judge of liberty and detention. During the previous quinquennium, we strengthened the JLD's status and expanded its presence to include all courts. With regard to the risk of bias, our colleague Alexandra Louis has referred at length to the doctrine in the Law Commission. The measure of pre-trial detention must be based on objective data, which, however, cannot be sufficient for minors. In their case, the personality file must also be taken into account, which raises the question of the impartiality of the judge and, in my view, justifies the granting to the JLD alone the power to order a pre-trial detention order against a minor at least 13 years of age. This measure may be proposed by the children's judge or the children's court, but the decision must go back to the JLD, in order to meet the requirement of a double look presented by Mr. Mazars. Without this reform, the scheme would be more severe for the minor than for the adult and thus contrary to the spirit of the 1945 Ordinance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u431	Amendment No 97 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier was defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u432	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for these various amendments. The purpose of the debates in committee is precisely to prepare the meeting and identify possible difficulties. Ms. Louis, Mr. Mazars, Ms. Moutchou and Ms. Avia referred to the fact that a juvenile judge could place a minor in pre-trial detention and, some time later, be required to rule on his guilt during the hearing. They stressed the risk of bias on the part of the judge, thus unconstitutionality of the system. Our debate has been particularly rich, and I thank everyone for that. The intervention of the JLD in the device allows, as you said, a double look at the situation of the minor. The juvenile judge knows the minor well, but another opinion will reassure him. Several amendments proposing the same measure, but in a different wording, will be discussed later. As my colleague Jean-Michel Fauvergue said recently during the examination of another text, I have the heart that bleeds, but I ask you to withdraw your amendments in favour of these forthcoming amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u433	[[Smile]] We're taking over the great writers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u434	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u435	It is identical, for a simple question of chronology. This subject, which we have discussed extensively, is important, but we will come back to it a little further in the text with several amendments that bring coherence to the proposed new mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u436	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u437	[[Smile]] Indeed, our debate in the Committee on Laws was very interesting and I am delighted to have convinced our colleagues in the opposition and in France, Mrs Untermaier and Mr Le Garde des Seales. It's a feat I'm very satisfied with. It is rare enough to be emphasized! We will come back to the subject when we consider other amendments – it is a bit of a shame to hold this debate in two steps – but I want to say a few words now. When we read the bill, we felt that the bill did not provide sufficient guarantees of impartiality. However, impartiality is a fundamental principle in a State governed by the rule of law, as it is a condition for the trust of a person who is a major or, even more so, a minor in the justice system. When a defendant is placed in pre-trial detention by a JLD and is, a few months later, in front of the same judge, who is responsible for deciding on his guilt, it is easy to imagine that justice does not seem to him to be very impartial. In any event, many legal professionals, including the academic Ms Haritini Matsopoulou, whose work I would like to commend, have stressed the risk of unconstitutionality and inconvenience of the current system. Indeed, both our Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights protect the principle of impartiality. These various reasons explain our proposal to entrust only the JLD with the power to order a pre-trial detention order against a minor at least 13 years of age. The principle of specialisation has been mentioned many times in our discussions in the Committee on Laws. We want specific justice for minors, based on appropriate courts and judges. But we also want to preserve the impartiality of the judge. We shall now propose an amendment which we believe is in line with this dual imperative. [[Ms. Sandrine Mörch applauds]] My colleague Naïma Moutchou yesterday defended an amendment aimed at integrating the JLD into specialized magistrates dedicated to children. This was a first step, which we congratulate. I will go into more detail on the measure we are proposing when we come to the corresponding amendment. It seemed useful, however, at this stage of the debate, to recall the spirit in which we worked.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u438	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u439	I am obviously satisfied with everything that has just been said, but article L. 334-2 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code currently provides, contrary to the 1945 Ordinance, that pretrial detention of a minor may be ordered or extended by the juvenile judge, the juvenile court or the judge of liberty and detention. The amendments we have tabled are aimed precisely at correcting this provision. How will you proceed in practice to modify the device provided for in Article L.334-2? We do not doubt your good intentions, but we are curious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u440	Mrs Untermaier, do you wish to maintain your amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u441	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u442	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u443	The technical problem raised by our colleague Cécile Untermaier is very real. Amendments Nos 343 and 398, which will be discussed in Article 7, are intended precisely to make the necessary changes, in particular to Article L.334-2 of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors. The adoption of these amendments will satisfy yours. I therefore ask you to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u444	Mrs. Untermaier, do you maintain them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u445	Having not yet considered the amendments announced, I will keep my own.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u446	Mr. Mazars?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u447	For my part, I have tabled similar amendments to Article 7; So I'm taking this one off.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u448	Mr Bernalicis, do you maintain your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u449	From what I read diagonally, the amendment is foreseen later in the text. In addition to the situation we are dealing with, we must avoid, more broadly, the imposition by the juvenile judge of the coercive measure – pre-trial detention – while at the same time participating in the trial process, in deliberation. I shall therefore, on an exceptional basis, withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u450	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u451	You see, Mr. Bernalicis, we can make exceptions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u452	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u453	It is known that a large proportion of minors in prison are in pre-trial detention. With this amendment, we want to limit pre-trial detention to criminal cases and prevent it from being extended to criminal cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u454	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u455	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u456	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u457	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u458	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u459	The amendment by our colleagues in the GDR Group aims to reaffirm the exceptional nature of pre-trial detention: it is only under the most serious circumstances and under the supervision of the magistrate that it can be justified against minors between the ages of 13 and 16. I hear the argument that pre-trial detention must be allowed in correctional matters, on the ground that certain crimes are being remedied, so that the correctional court also decides on serious facts. However, I do not have the impression that your opinion is based on this argument. On the other hand, this possibility bothers me a little: I am in favour of restricting as much as possible, with the most exceptional exceptions, the use of pre-trial detention – in fact, I am totally opposed to it, but, failing its outright prohibition, I am going back to this position. If the aim is to limit the use of pre-trial detention, let us go to the end of the logic by adopting the proposed restriction and conditioning this type of measure to the seriousness of the offence committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u460	Mr Pauget's Amendment No 30 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u461	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 208.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u462	I'm a little embarrassed...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u463	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u464	...and I'll explain why, even if no one here can do anything about it. Our amendment was intended to provide that the age taken into account was that of the minor at the time the offence was committed, except – we ourselves were introducing an exception, as is possible – "for minors over sixteen years of age, for whom the age at the time of sentencing is taken into account when considering work of general interest"; In our mind, this was true when the TIG was handed down by the Children's Court. But the TIG can now be pronounced in cabinet and not by the judge – you remember, Mr.President, we discussed it a lot. I am therefore embarrassed, because if our amendment were adopted, it would conflict with other provisions of the Code. However, defending it makes it possible to reaffirm our state of mind: if, because of a delay in the examination of his file, the individual concerned has become major at the time of discussion of the penalty he is facing, we agree that the work of general interest may be a much preferable measure to imprisonment. I therefore defend this amendment, but I regret that we have not been able to have the precedents adopted in line with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u465	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u466	We discussed the TIG at length. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u467	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 209.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u468	It is intended that the minor, whether he or she is the perpetrator or victim of a crime or an offence, may not "only" benefit from the assistance of a lawyer, but may be provided in all circumstances. At the time of defending this amendment in committee, I had not expressed myself clearly enough: I had spoken of reaffirming the "right" to have a lawyer, whereas it is more important to ensure the effectiveness of the presence of a lawyer with the minor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u469	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u470	It was discussed in committee: opinion unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u471	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u472	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u473	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u474	Mr rapporteur, in response to the arguments I made in committee, you said that the "right" to the lawyer was guaranteed. However, as I have just told you, I have since refined my argument: what we want is to ensure that the presence of a lawyer is effective in all circumstances. The amendment is therefore intended to clarify this requirement, which must not suffer any exceptions. In particular cases, the magistrate may decide that the presence of a lawyer is not required. I therefore do not understand why you continue to refuse to respond to my arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u475	This has been removed in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u476	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u477	It's a real dialogue of the deaf that I don't understand anymore. We debated the free hearing in committee and removed the exceptions; So there's no more! I don't know what else to tell you. In order to clarify the debate, for those who would look at us and who might get lost, it may only be necessary to re-read the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code – I apologise in advance, it will be a little heavy but it is important – which states in article L.412-2: "When the investigation concerns a crime or an offence punishable by imprisonment and the minor has not requested the assistance of a lawyer in accordance with articles 61-1 and 61-3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, this request may also be made by his legal representatives, who are then notified of this right when they are informed under article L.412-1. Where the minor or his legal representatives have not applied for the appointment of a lawyer, the public prosecutor, the juvenile judge, the investigating judge or the officer or the judicial police officer shall inform him by any means and without delay so that he may commit one ex officio". These provisions have been voted on! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I therefore confess that I am a little annoyed: I hear that you have convictions and that you defend them; That's great! But it is a bit vexing, when we have adopted amendments defended by all the parliamentary groups on this issue, that you are still supporting such an amendment in the House. Excuse me, but this is not a good way to debate. On other matters, it is quite commendable that you defend your convictions, but I find that in this case your approach does not give a good picture of the parliamentary debate. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u478	The rapporteur's amendment No 401 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u479	I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u480	Filed by the Government, it is intended to delete an addition of the commission aimed at clarifying, in article L.423-4 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, which determines the conditions for referral to the Children's Court for the purpose of a single hearing, that the court may always decide in accordance with the procedure of educational probation. This precision is not... Wait, I got a little problem...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u481	Everyone has the right to make a mistake, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u482	[[Smile on various benches]] Thank you very much, Mrs Untermaier. The amendment is not allowed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u483	What a sense of synthesis, Minister! What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u484	The addition from an amendment that I had adopted in committee may be superfluous, since this provision already exists in Article L.521-27. I shall therefore issue an opinion in favour of deleting the amendment introduced in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u485	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u486	[[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] Consistent with the minister's argument, unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u487	Thank you, Mr. Bernalicis, for sharing your views.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u488	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 343 and 398. Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support Amendment No. 343.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u489	This is the famous amendment which proposes a solution to the debate that we had a few minutes ago. We had raised the fact that the current text could pose a problem of impartiality. In order to guarantee this, we propose that it be not the juvenile judge but the JLD who intervenes to decide on the placement of the minor in pre-trial detention, before his appearance for the guilty hearing, but also – this is important – in the event that his or her judicial review is likely to be revoked, if he or she has failed to comply with the conditions. The referral of the JLD by the children's judge will allow for a precise examination of the child's situation and protect the principles of impartiality and specialization. I also point out – the measure was defended yesterday – that our JLDs will be assigned specifically to minors. We have thus succeeded in satisfying the requirement of impartiality at both stages of the procedure, which is a good step forward; This shows that the work in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure makes it possible to improve and enrich a text on the subjects that are of great interest to us, as we have also done with regard to the free hearing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u490	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 398.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u491	It is being defended, because I have already given lengthy explanations about the amendments made by our colleague Stéphane Mazars.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u492	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u493	The Government is in favour of this. You're right. For the pretrial detention of minors, which must remain exceptional, special attention must be paid to the observance of our principles. Thus, the judge of liberty and detention must rule on the detention of minors in pretrial detention prior to the conviction hearing. I was convinced by your arguments, MP Alexandra Louis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u494	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u495	Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u496	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 87 on the additional Rule after Rule 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u497	The detention procedure, provided for in article L. 413-1 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, is a measure of deprivation of liberty for children between 10 and 13 years of age, who can thus be questioned by the police or gendarmerie under duress, for a maximum duration of 12 hours. Despite the fact that this system is framed, we consider that restraint should not be possible for children under 13 years of age. You said in substance, minister, that a society that is afraid of its children does not trust the future. I believe that, for a society, being afraid of its children is not a good omen. I've seen things that have hit me especially in the last few weeks. During the tribute to Samuel Paty, it was important that educational teams in schools should have the opportunity to supervise those who asked questions or disturbed ceremonies. Other episodes should alert us. A 10-year-old girl was arrested at her home by hooded police forces before being taken and detained at the police station, where she was asked questions she probably did not understand and which certainly proved counterproductive to evoke what she had expressed during this tribute. Beyond the fact that this is not how we will identify cases of radicalization or terrorist grip, I am really afraid that such processes will feed rage and resentment – which is far from the goal we share. I refer to this example because it has been up to date in recent weeks. Turning to the amendment, we believe that a restraint procedure should not be possible for a minor aged between 10 and 13. Other solutions exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u498	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u499	Under your amendment, you propose to remove the withholding tax for minors between the ages of 10 and 13. I should like to recall that this measure remains quite exceptional. Nevertheless, it may be necessary, for example when minors under the age of 13 are used by networks to watch in connection with trafficking, to have the tools necessary for them to be heard. I would also like to point out that the conditions for recourse to this possibility are very restrictive: detention may only concern a minor aged between 10 and 13 years, against whom there is one or more plausible grounds for suspecting that he has committed or attempted to commit a crime or an offence punishable by at least 5 years' imprisonment. This measure must be the only way to achieve at least one of the objectives mentioned in article 62 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It requires the prior approval and supervision of the public prosecutor or the investigating judge. The term fixed by the magistrate may not exceed 12 hours. Finally, detention is strictly limited to the time necessary for the minor's testimony and presentation to the competent magistrate. These very restrictive conditions guarantee the very exceptional nature of this provision, which may nevertheless, in some cases, seem useful for the reasons mentioned above. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u500	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u501	For the same reasons, it is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u502	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u503	I am somewhat embarrassed by the reasoning behind this amendment. If we all agree that there is no question of incarcerated minors indefinitely – or in any way whatsoever – this proposal is based on the assumption that the state's police and justice services would consist of horrific torturers who would only think of arresting people to detain them against their will. I am rather proud of the fact that the legislator is allowing the police to get children out of the street and not to leave them in disarray, delivered to networks that exploit them – regardless of whether they are 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 or 15 years old.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u504	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u505	I am pleased that, when they find that a minor engages in criminal activity, these services can retain him or her time to identify the person who is civilly responsible or to place him or her in the appropriate service, which will accompany them and hopefully enable them to return to a normal life. We owe this protection to these minors, who do not have the capacity of discernment to regain control of themselves when they are exploited.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u506	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u507	[[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] Let us listen, ladies and gentlemen: Mrs Elsa Faucillon, in her excellent speech, did not bring anyone to trial. Forgive me, but you have fantasies! We respect the Republican police. We are also fighting, each and every one of us in our constituencies, for more Republican policemen to serve the tranquillity and security of our fellow citizens. You can lend us intentions, but the reality is quite different.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u508	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 210.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u509	It aims to eliminate the possibility of retaining a minor, on an exceptional basis, from the age of 10 years and thus to retain the age in force in the rest of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, namely 13 years – even if this solution does not satisfy us fully. I will not repeat the arguments put forward by the keeper of the seals in response to an amendment by Mrs Ménard to oppose the confinement of minors from the age of 10, but they could apply here. I will be opposed to the fact that a 12-hour detention is not comparable to a detention for several weeks or months in a juvenile prison. That's right. Nevertheless, for a kid, the mere fact of being locked up, including in detention, can have a dramatic psychological impact. I would also like to point out that, according to the returns to which I have been informed by several professionals, the prosecutor's office is only notified once the minor has been detained. He is not asked for his opinion before detaining a child, in accordance with the conditions that have been listed: he is faced with the fait accompli. I understand that, as part of a police operation against drug trafficking, the law enforcement agencies are calling on all those present, including those under the age of 11 or 12. The Juvenile Criminal Justice Code allows police officers to detain them and place them under a regime similar to that of police custody – even if special conditions apply – they do. I see it very well: it does not cause me any difficulty. I don't consider the police to be torturers. While some police officers may commit acts of torture, fortunately this remains very minority and I hope that all measures are taken to put an end to these situations when they arise. However, since this measure is authorised, it is false to claim that the guarantees provided for in the Code apply a priori.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u510	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u511	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u512	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u513	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u514	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u515	I would like to question the guard of the seals on the point raised by Mr Bernalicis, even if he will not necessarily be able to answer me immediately. Is the treatment of young people on board a police operation governed by a circular or special instructions? Are they, for example, excluded from the rest of the group – which could prove useful, because it can be dangerous to mix adults and children, especially in situations of tension? When minors arrive at the police station or gendarmerie where they will be detained and questioned, are special measures taken to accommodate them in suitable rooms? I, too, would be in favour of retaining children from the age of 13, but I understand that, in an operation, police officers sometimes find it difficult to sort – to use a detestable expression – between children under the age of 13 and other minors. However, once the identities have been identified, or if the police have a doubt about age, are there any special protective measures to take this young age into account?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u516	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u517	Our colleague Elsa Faucillon described some of the facts that may have shocked public opinion and hit us politically and humanely. They show that when a code offers possibilities, particularly applicable from the sub-judicial level, these means are used. However, we are not deprived when it is impossible to retain the minor: we have already mentioned the various measures available. It is true that they do not apply exactly in the same temporality, but our right would be honoured, precisely, to consider that, within a certain age, a minor, even if he is part of a group that has committed offences – particularly in the context of drug trafficking, since I see that this is the example that often comes back – must be treated in a completely different way. On the other hand, it is necessary to attack the adults who are at work – because you will not make me believe that there are drug trafficking entirely carried out by minors: a major necessarily intervenes in the circuit. It is essential that we establish protections and respond to the debate we have just had on the impossibility of keeping children under 13 years of age. However, the detention of minors from the age of 10 is one of the problematic exceptions to this principle. By deleting it, we would improve the juvenile criminal justice code, rather than simply replicate the existing one. Finally, I repeat that it is wrong to claim that prosecutors decide, during the course of the investigation, to detain the minor: in fact, they are informed that a minor is detained in jails following a police operation. The guarantees you are opposing from us are therefore not as effective as you claim. I stress this point, Mr. Keeper of Seals, because you have often reminded us of reality, pragmatism, terrain and what is happening in real life. In this case, real life leads us to consider that there is scope for changing the juvenile criminal justice code to better protect children between the ages of 10 and 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u518	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to support Amendment No. 308.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u519	In line with the previous discussions, I would point out that article L. 413-1 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code applies to minors between the ages of 10 and 13. However, I think it is dangerous to take these children to a police station or a gendarmerie barracks, to premises that are not necessarily suitable, and when many services do not have police officers specializing in the care of children. While I fully understand that this possibility exists to deal with crimes, I strongly wonder about its extension to offences. What is more, for children aged 10 to 13, a six-hour deduction seems to me to be largely sufficient. Moreover, if it is necessary, as you indicate, to search for the identity of the minor or to locate his parents, it is quite possible to entrust the minor to the social services, which are perfectly able to take care of him. That is why I propose to reduce the maximum period of detention for children from 12 to 6 hours from 10 to 13 years and to remove the possibility of detention for offences, thus limiting it to crimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u520	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u521	All guarantees are provided for this measure, which can only be applied in truly exceptional circumstances. I am not sure that minors can be placed in the situation you describe. Read the article to which you refer, as well as the exceptions and conditions governing the detention of these minors: they are very restrictive. However, it seems to me necessary to maintain this solution, on an exceptional basis. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u522	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u523	I would point out that detention in criminal matters is only possible for offences punishable by 5 years' imprisonment, for example for violence with a weapon that has caused an ITT – temporary incapacity to work – of more than eight days. One cannot empty the retention of its substance: the investigation sometimes requires retention, under the conditions laid down in the text. That is why we do not want your amendment to be voted on, both because its adoption would reduce the retention period and because detention would no longer be applicable only to criminal matters. For the rest, since we are talking about guarantees, I will reply to Mr Balanant that the guarantee, in this matter, is offered by the public prosecutor: detention takes place under his orders and under his control. With respect to the case raised by Ms. Faucillon, I do not believe that the police are wearing hoods for interventions aimed solely at detaining a child. However, it may happen in a particular case, such as the one to which you seem to be referring and to which we all think, that the law enforcement forces, fearing of finding something other than what they had come for, and of being confronted with adults, have put a hood in order to ensure their own safety. But it's something else. You can't say or suggest that law enforcement are putting hoods on when they're just going to question a 10-year-old. That's not true. If it were, it would be grievous and I hope that it would be subject to sanctions. We can't amalgamate everything. The reality is quite different: the police do not know what they are likely to find in a home. I add that, in practice, according to what my services tell me – which I naturally tend to believe – prosecutors do not order to go to school to pick up children because it would stigmatize them vis-à-vis other children who would see one of their classmates leave the classroom in special conditions. Normally, they will be picked up at home, under conditions controlled by the prosecutor, who is a judge of the judicial order guaranteeing freedom. This is the normal course of operations, which does not correspond at all to what you are saying, Mr Bernalicis – but I know that you are angry with the prosecutors, as you have already demonstrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u524	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u525	We're talking about kids from CM2! I don't agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u526	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u527	I would like to respond on several points. First of all, with regard to the amendment, it seems to me more protective to reduce the length of detention from 12 hours to 6 hours and to limit this provision to criminal matters. I shall therefore vote in favour of the amendment which seems to me to be in the right direction, even if it is a withdrawal solution for me – I hope, Mr Minister, that you will not make me say that I am in favour of a six-hour detention period for minors between the ages of 10 and 13. On the other hand, the fact mentioned by Elsa Faucillon was well reported in the press. Following the tribute to Samuel Paty, children saw hooded policemen coming to their homes to pick them up. It may happen that the press is lying, I do not say otherwise, but in this case the Ministry of the Interior has not published to my knowledge any denials. I heard you very well, Minister. You have requested the initiation of an investigation, with a view to possible prosecution, if not judicial, at least disciplinary. You can't say the police didn't know what they were going to find inside that house. They knew very well that they were going to find the kid who had disturbed the tribute to Samuel Paty in the school. So this is a concrete example. Unlike you, minister, I'm not angry with prosecutors. I know that you have a long experience in the field of haggling, in court, with prosecutors or with court presidents. We're not going to trace your brilliant career here. What I am concerned about is not the prosecutors, but the Constitution, the framework within which they are located and the lack of independence that characterizes them...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u528	Mr. Member, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u529	Since you seem to be very keen on the need to make proposals, I would like to inform you that my contribution to the report of the Committee of Inquiry on this subject may be of interest to you, as it contains sixty-three.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u530	You can't walk through the doors anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u531	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u532	I would like to make some clarifications so that we may stop hearing everything and anything about the matter that we have been talking about for a few minutes and that has actually been reported in the press. According to the AFP dispatch, the prosecutor justified his action: "Given the age of the students, it was necessary to investigate the family environment. We could not only summon them, we also had to search the home and we didn't know who we were dealing with... The police did their job, in accordance with the law. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u533	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u534	I would like to respond to Mr Bernalicis's comments. When the police go to the house, they're not going to look for the child who disturbed the tribute to Samuel Paty. They will look for the child whom he is presumed to have disturbed the tribute to Samuel Paty and detain him for the purposes of the investigation in order to prove the truthfulness of the facts. The shade is very important. That is how justice works and it is fundamental.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u535	These kids are 10 years old!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u536	Amendment No 88 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u537	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 152.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u538	It aims to clarify the wording of article L. 413-2 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code and to ensure that the extension of judicial detention is not prevented by circumstances which would make it impossible for the minor to be brought before the public prosecutor or the investigating judge. While this presentation is obviously preferable, it should not prevent restraint or, of course, the proper administration of justice. However, in its current wording, the article leaves room for ambiguity as to the mandatory nature of the submission of the minor to the public prosecutor or the investigating judge for the extension of the detention. It is not known, in the case of circumstances preventing the presentation, whether the magistrate can dispense with the latter to extend the detention or whether such detention becomes, as a result, impossible. The question should be resolved by clarifying the wording. That is the subject of my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u539	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u540	This amendment seems to me to be satisfactory, so the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u541	Amendment No 89 by Mr Stéphane Peu is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u542	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 154.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u543	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u544	Amendment No 90 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u545	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 211.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u546	It is intended to supplement article L. 413-4 with a sentence as follows: "This examination is reserved for the assessment of the compatibility of the minor's condition with the detention. Indeed, in many cases, it is now used, in a hijacked manner, as a means of assessing the person's minority. We need to know what we're in. We see that at the turn of the code, we are actually dealing with the issue of unaccompanied minors by allowing the detention to be used to carry out a medical examination which has nothing to do with what was its original purpose, the assessment of the minor's compatibility with the detention – and not with the detention, Minister, I specify it because it is not the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u547	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u548	Under no circumstances shall such examination be carried out to determine whether a person is a minor. We have already had this debate in committee. The opinion is very unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u549	Amendment No 91 by Mr Stéphane Peu is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u550	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 212.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u551	By this amendment we propose that the notification of the rights of the minor be oral and written, not either.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u552	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u553	As the effectiveness of this right is to be guaranteed, it would be useful to formalize the use of a form to ensure the minor's understanding of the rights available to him or her. Such notification of the rights of the minor shall be made to the child, his parents or his legal representatives. The non-effectiveness of this notification is a reality which finds a legal resonance in the 2018-2022 law of programming and reform for justice which provides experimentally for the oralisation of the rights of the detained person without excluding the minor. That is why we hope that this right will also be mentioned in this bill through this proposal for a notification that is both written and oral, and in a language that the minor understands – which is pointless to clarify in the operative part, as it seems obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u554	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u555	As your amendment is satisfied, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u556	I call Mr Savignat to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u557	He's out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u558	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u559	It aims to ensure that the conditions for extending the extension of police custody also apply to minors over the age of 16. Once again, when children under the age of 16 are considered to be minors, the provisions for minors must apply to them – or they should not be considered minors, but they should be transferred to another jurisdiction. It is finally by multiplying the exceptions of this type that the parliamentary right finally finds legitimate and logical to lower the criminal majority to 16 years in some cases. I remember, as I told you in committee, that in the somewhat particular context of the covid-19 epidemic, the criminal order provided precisely that the presentation to the magistrate would no longer be required in order to obtain an extension of the custody of minors over 16 years of age, which is still a major problem. It is clear how, step by step, in particular circumstances or in the context of different laws, the specific safeguards for juvenile justice can be reduced. We are moving forward in our consideration of this text. However, I find it difficult to see what new safeguards and protections are available to minors under this new code. I note that there are exceptions, but I do not see any developments, even on the question of the simple presumption for the criminal irresponsibility of 13-year-olds, since the minister begins by telling us that we can be reassured because it will always be possible to proceed as before. I therefore do not understand the progressive or protective logic of this new code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u560	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u561	Unfavorable. It seems to me appropriate to adopt different conditions for the extension of custody depending on whether the minor is over 16 years of age or under 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u562	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u563	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u564	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u565	I don't understand how that's relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u566	It's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u567	Or it means we don't care if he's a minor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u568	That's right, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u569	We are talking here about an extension – the young person has already spent a little time on the spot – and so we cannot really justify it by the needs of the investigation, unless we provide for special means because the person is a minor. In any case, the duration of the deduction cannot be the adjustment variable. That's not possible. Or let us admit that, when it suits us, we don't care about the great principles that were set out at the very beginning of our debates, such as the principle of speciality or the excuse of a minority. I note, moreover, that these articles, and the precedents, relating inter alia to restraint, relate essentially to drug trafficking. In order to provide guarantees, all acts punishable by at least five years' imprisonment are mentioned, but since the quantum of the punishment for drug trafficking has increased steadily, this type of punishment is quickly being dealt with in an organized gang. Moreover, this does not even address the problem of drug trafficking. We would therefore honour ourselves by making the law a little more protective for minors, that is, for children under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u570	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-11-O1117.u571	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill ratifying the Ordinance of 11 September 2019 on the legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code. The meeting is adjourned.
