ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u1	The next item is the debate on the functioning of justice during the crisis of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u2	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u3	The meeting was resumed. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u4	In spite of the complicated context of the pandemic, many French people are waiting for a court decision because it is of paramount interest to them. Although health protection must prevail and has resulted in the closure of many courts – both to the public and to professionals – to prevent the spread of the epidemic, respect for fundamental freedoms and the rights of all are, of course, equally essential. Between 16 March and 11 May, assize trials were postponed, as did the majority of hearings in correctional or civil courts. The hearings continued were mainly immediate appearances. However, during your hearing before the fact-finding mission on the impact, management and consequences in all its dimensions of the covid epidemic -19 in the National Assembly on 8 April, you announced, Madam, that the courts remained open for work related to emergency litigation and essential litigation, such as proceedings concerning domestic violence, attacks on persons, or failure to comply with the rules of confinement. What we have seen is a very large disparity in the functioning of the courts, and an application of the Chancellery's instructions, which varied greatly from one jurisdiction to another. This slowdown in court activity is unprecedented. It is a matter of concern, especially since it comes in addition to the difficulties associated with the lawyers' strike, which, unfortunately, you have managed particularly poorly in the run up to the pandemic. This further slowdown in judicial activity is largely due to the lack of readability in the implementation of business continuity plans, which in some cases has led to a quasi-total arrest of the courts. My first question is very simple: was it necessary to reduce the functioning of the courts to this point, and if so, why? To remedy this slowdown, you explain that 1,000 individual contractors will be recruited for three months to support transplants. Do you seriously think that this will be enough? Obviously not, since the draft law on various provisions related to the health crisis provides for other measures, namely the reorientation of litigation and the extension of criminal courts. In both cases, concern can be expressed about the impact of these measures on the independence of the judiciary and on the rights of the defence. All of this is merely cost-saving measures, which attempt to mask this government's lack of genuine ambition for judicial justice, especially since, from the very beginning of the confinement, your ministry has been unmistakable in thanking all magistrates acting on a temporary basis in the courts. While they had rendered important services to the judicial institution, they found themselves resourceless, and most of them still did not receive the compensation they were due at the time I was talking about. This quasi-stopping of judicial activity has led to the postponement of several thousand cases, which will further exacerbate the already very heavy congestion of the courts. Madam Minister, I say to you everything from go: the Government's response has, alas, fallen short of what is at stake. You who have praised us so much for the merits of your law of programming and reform for justice and its modernity in the deployment of digital technology, how do you explain that this digital transformation plan has not produced any effects – or so little? The dematerialization of civil proceedings should have allowed for the continuation of pre-trial proceedings and the notification of judgements, but it must be noted that not all magistrates, and even less the clerks, can work from their homes because of lack of access to secure software. In conclusion, many litigants suffer from this lack of response, and cases continue to grow in the courts. What strategy do you envisage in order to finally meet the legitimate expectations of litigants and legal professionals who need answers and legal certainty? Since the lifting of the confinement, a month ago, we can see that the resumption of judicial activity is only taking place very gradually – it is an understatement!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u5	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u6	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Conseil national des barreaus, which represents the 70000 lawyers in France, has requested a total suspension of summer leave in the courts. Will you respond favourably to him, in order to finally face the judicial emergency that follows the health emergency? There are compelling needs there. We look forward not only to responses, but also to actions on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u8	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u9	Maybe there's a bit of caricature in your remarks, Mr. Hetzel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u10	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u11	For my part, I thought he was pretty nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u12	The containment has obviously and logically slowed down the functioning of the courts. However, I would like to thank all the judicial personnel who have continued to work and hold the courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u13	Not all...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u14	I saw staff at the Quimper Court, including the President of the High Court, doing everything they could in extremely complicated circumstances. There was, of course, a need to preserve everyone's rights as best as possible. It seems to me that's what's been done. For this reason, procedures and deadlines had to be adjusted during the period. This was the subject of the many ordinances made by the Ministry of Justice. This crisis also revealed frailties and amplified the pre-existing problems of the covid -19 epidemic. However, I believe that it can also be seen as an opportunity to improve the functioning of our judicial system. It is important to stress that the continuity of some key litigation was ensured during this period, thanks to the mobilization of the actors in the judicial chain. There has also been some creativity in several areas. I am thinking, for example, of the treatment of domestic violence, which was the subject of a very strong mobilization during confinement. Some mechanisms that have proved effective may need to be sustained, such as reporting of abuse to pharmacists, which has proved relevant. Several other devices, such as the housing platform to enable violent spouses to escape or the telephone line for men who feel at the edge of the move, have continued and have also shown their effectiveness. One of the great lessons of this crisis was the management of the prison issue, which was of interest. Perhaps we must learn from this crisis in this area. First of all, it should be noted that, in terms of health, very little contamination has taken place in prisons. The dangers have been well identified, and the reactivity of the administration has effectively prevented the crisis. The early release, coupled with the decline in prison sentences, has led to a sharp reduction in the prison population, which we can welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u15	Not really, no.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u16	In this way, we find ourselves in a rather new situation, since France has no prison overcrowding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u17	If only it were true! In Bethune, the occupancy rate is 140%!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u18	Let us try to keep this course and keep the number of inmates at its current level. Everyone knows that real reintegration work can be carried out in prisons if they are not overcrowded. The overseers with whom I spoke made it clear to me that it was now much easier for them than usual to do a real job of insertion. Another positive aspect of the crisis is the high level of coordination between the actors in the criminal chain, in particular between the prison administration, prosecutors and sentence enforcement judges. These successes must be maintained and enhanced. One of the lessons of the crisis is also the issue of digital technology. This is a real challenge: what digital development do we want for justice? This is an essential task, which you have already undertaken, Madam Minister, in the context of the law on programming and reform for justice. The health crisis has highlighted the absolute need to bring it to an end. In my view, we will have to rethink this digital relationship...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u19	You don't have to think about it, but you have to think about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u20	...and amplify the movement. Questions have arisen, as evidenced by the example of clerks who did not have access to telework.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u21	We had to wait for the crisis to find out...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u22	We need to make progress on these issues. As I have already said during the various hearings that we have conducted, we must imagine that, just as there is in Bercy an impots.gouv.fr site, which allows every citizen to have a simple state of his file... But I see it's time to close!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u23	Indeed, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u24	He's talkative!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u25	Vigilance is required with regard to the use of digital and video-audience. We should be careful...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u26	Thank you, Mr. Balanant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u27	It's not very nice to turn off the microphone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u28	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u29	The Government has adopted by ordinances a set of measures designed to respond to the threat of the epidemic and to protect professionals and litigants, while at the same time preserving – in any case its wish – the continuity of the public service of justice. In the prison field, one observation is necessary: not only have prisons not been submerged by the virus, but we have increased from 72400 prisoners to 61000 at the end of April 2020. The release of those who were closest to the end of their sentence and the reduction in the number of incoming prisoners explains this reduction of more than 11,500 persons. We proposed to go further by retaining the possibility of a review by the judge of the application of sentences for release to less than four months from the end of the sentence, rather than less than two months. I still think, Madam Minister, that we should go so far. Sentence enforcement judges, prosecutors, lawyers, as well as day-to-day prison monitors and their directorates, have made exemplary efforts and I want to express our gratitude to them here. The supervisors went to work without a mask, in a place of containment where distancing was difficult. They managed the complicated suppression of the parlors and organized internal circulations and quarantines for the entrants, so that the detention centres, in particular, are not potential clusters. If we do not want to impose the consequences of overcrowding on detainees and supervisors again or to face a new condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights, we have no choice but to ensure that the measures taken during the health crisis continue. The prison directors are seeing an increase in the number of prisons and fear a return to prison overcrowding, which the proactive policy of regulation through prosecutors will not be enough to prevent. However, the health risk does not allow us to find the numbers we knew before the epidemic. The grant of 40 euros of telephone credit came to compensate for the shutdown of the speakers during the confinement, and this was appreciated. But, as we know, it is the whole system that is anachronistic and unfair, because it costs prisoners, often in precarious situations. The use of a smart cell phone would be less expensive and would be a relief for both inmates and prison supervisors. As time passed, the continuity of the public service of justice was not ensured in the same way throughout the country. Some jurisdictions have tried, with due respect for barring actions, to continue their activities beyond emergencies and criminal matters, and this effort has been hailed locally by lawyers and litigants. The Lyon Bar Association, for example, which is not one of the least, reported that the judicial court in Grenoble and the Montpellier Court had set up a process for the filing of files dematerialised through the Atlas platform, but that this was not practice in other jurisdictions. Such disparities have undermined the principle of equality of users vis-à-vis the public service of justice and complicated the readability of its action. That is why, on 22 April, we sent a letter to the Prime Minister and to you, Madam Minister, requesting that this plan be changed without waiting until 11 May and that it be returned to normal judicial practice as soon as possible. This would enable large and small courts and specialized tribunals, within their means, to engage in the processing of substantive cases in consultation with the clerks and lawyers, in accordance with the barriers that must be faced by all of us. In cases where the courts have reduced their activity to urgent judicial cases, it has been found that entire portions of the judicial activity have been suspended, particularly in civil and prud'homal litigation. Beyond legal issues, however, the lives of the litigants are at stake. The justice professionals who were able to speak to us describe courts in which hearings could be held in accordance with health prevention measures. The business continuity plan was therefore a limiting framework. In addition, telework was quickly found to be impossible for clerks due to the lack of civil procedure software and laptops. The judges have handed down their judgements, but they are awaiting notification. What lawyers could do with the APIR, the virtual private network of lawyers, justice could not, due to the lack of adequate software and digital hardware equipment. The criminal has suffered less, but the civilian is undercut. Thus, the Civil and Correctional Chambers and the Protection Litigation Judge are in great difficulty. It now takes a year for a first convocation in the event of divorce, which is not acceptable to litigants. It is therefore necessary to postpone the entry into force of the provisions of the law of 23 March 2019, and not only until January or March 2021: let us opt for a single date, which could be in September 2021, or even January 2022, in order to allow the courts to regain a normal rhythm. Finally, we are wondering about the extension of the experiment concerning the criminal chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u30	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u31	This debate on the functioning of justice during the crisis allows us to address three major issues. The first concerns the profession of lawyer. During the confinement, all professionals denounced the impossibility of defending their clients in good conditions, due to the malfunctioning of electronic means, the absence of masks and freezing in prisons and courts or potential breaches of the confidentiality of exchanges with their clients. In addition, the economic situation of lawyers has deteriorated particularly. They have alerted us on several occasions about the difficulties they face: the impossibility of accessing State-guaranteed loans, in particular for those who exercise in the framework of an association of lawyers with individual professional responsibility, the difficulty of obtaining daily allowances for vulnerability or childcare and, for some, problems of access to the solidarity fund. We have referred this matter to the Minister of Economy and Finance. A survey carried out by the National Bar Council to assess the consequences of the health crisis on the exercise of the profession, to which more than 10,000 lawyers responded in three days, confirms the seriousness of the situation. Almost all of these professionals were affected by the health crisis and containment measures; 41% of individual lawyers have completely stopped their activities since the beginning; 80% stated that their turnover had fallen by more than 50% and 61% had to apply for the State Solidarity Fund; 77% of individual lawyers and associated lawyers stated that they were completely or partially renouncing their remuneration. These figures speak for themselves, Madam Minister. The lawyers we met – as you probably did too – are distraught and many are now thinking of abandoning the profession. Many offices will have to put the key under the door. However, lawyers do not only perform a public service mission, but they are also, and above all, one of the pillars of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u32	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u33	The IDU and independent group therefore takes the opportunity of this debate to warn you: letting many lawyers die would be unworthy of our democracy. The second issue is the congestion of courts, particularly criminal ones. The Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Paris alerted the members of the Law Commission indicating that he had cancelled more than 400 hearings, representing 435 cases not examined each week. Over the eight-week period, 3200 cases must now be reoriented. Major trials have also been postponed. We therefore call for the recruitment of legal assistants, legal assistants and individual contractors. We have noted the measures that the Government wishes to take to reorient cases or to try crimes, but it is not just about managing stocks; we must also work for the benefit of the litigants. Finally, this crisis has shown our real ability to regulate the prison population. This trend must continue. Therefore, and as we had pointed out in the debates on the law on programming and reform of the justice system, it would be time to review the allocation of the Ministry's appropriations in order to devote most of it to regulation rather than to the construction of new prisons. The crisis exacerbates and exacerbates the flaws of the judicial institution. During confinement, the rights of the defence were not properly respected. Access to the judge has been reduced or even abolished, including with regard to deprivation of liberty. We cannot give ourselves the luxury of losing judicial auxiliaries or of continuing to avoid the recruitment of staff in the courts. As this crisis shows us, this is always done at the expense of fundamental rights, which is not acceptable to anyone. If the epidemic seems to be controlled today, in many other respects, the complications are before us. Justice is a priority and we must give ourselves the means to ensure its proper functioning, otherwise it will emerge from this crisis even more distressed than it was before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u34	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u35	Madam Minister, you will forgive me for starting my speech by paraphrasing, as clumsyly as possible, I hope, the 1974 speech by Guy Carcassonne on the rights of defence, but his way of making the verb "defense" play to know who defends what against whom or against whom perfectly adapts to the situation that some litigants are currently experiencing. For twelve weeks, this word "defense" has been at the heart of their lives. Defense? But what defense is this? The one who forbids or the one who protects? The one who's defending himself from leaving home or from pre-trial detention? And who's defending? You, Madam Minister? The government? With what rights for the defense? The rights threatened, begun, the rights deprived of the intervention of a judge to protect individual freedom, the right to liberty and security. The functioning of justice during the crisis has led to the question of the full extension of all detention without the intervention of the judge,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u36	Ah! He's the first one to talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u37	... which, according to article 66 of our Constitution, is the guardian of individual freedoms. The extension of detention periods of full right also undermines the constitutionality block, in particular Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights. This is what the Criminal Chamber of the Court of Cassation noted in its decision of 26 May: "It follows [from this article] that when the law provides, beyond the initial period it determines for each title concerned, for the extension of a measure of pre-trial detention, the intervention of the judicial judge is necessary as a guarantee against arbitrariness. As a reminder, the Emergency Act of 23 March 2020 to deal with the covid-19 epidemic authorized the Government to amend by order the rules on the conduct and duration of pre-trial detentions, and the resulting order provided for an ex officio extension of pre-trial detention periods for two, three or six months. The Criminal Division considered, inter alia, that the order was not in conformity with the right to liberty and security protected by the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u38	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u39	This inconvenientity has had immediate effects: according to the figures of the Ministry of Justice, 171 detainees were released by 29 May 2020 and further releases are expected to follow. How can we not see here a challenge to the provisions adopted during the state of health emergency, which undermine certain rights and freedoms of the litigants? In fact, our Freedom and Territory Group had alerted you about these risks. The judges also noted that France had not resorted to the right of derogation provided for in article 15 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in particular "in case of public danger threatening the life of the nation". Yet, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the epidemic, because of its effects, fully justified it. Even if it is not an obligation, do you not believe retrospectively, like the lawyer Jean-Paul Costa, that it would have been desirable, for reasons of both transparency and coherence, for our country to exercise this right? Finally, and I fully agree with the president of the investigating chamber of the Paris Court of Appeal: texts supposed to regulate the criminal procedure during this period of health crisis have led to unprecedented confusion, in contradiction with the aim sought – complexity of the calculation of time limits, stacking of rules, unprecedented legal issues. Madam Keeper of the Seals, I shall dwell for a moment on the dematerialized justice that our group has warned you about, because human beings must be at the heart of digital developments. While your ministry has benefited from a fundraiser to make many digital start-ups pale with envy – more than half a billion euros over five years – what about the effectiveness of this justice of the 21st century, supposed to be more accessible, faster, more efficient and more transparent? Portalis, the civil software that might have been needed during containment, appears to be lost in an administrative abyss. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The press has also pointed out the distress of the magistrates, who begged you, during the confinement, to delay the entry into force of the new scale of penalties, involving a new digital brick in Cassiopee, this penal software that they have, it must be said, very difficult to appropriate. Madam Minister, what lessons do you learn from confinement in view of the many quiucs that a digital justice system, unfortunately dehumanized, is experiencing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u40	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u41	I will immediately get into the heart of the matter: the automatic extension of pre-trial detention, already mentioned by the previous speaker. From the outset, alerts were issued by some trade union organizations, which indicated that the order was particularly poorly drafted, since it was open to multiple interpretations. Subsequently, at the request of some jurisdictions, a circular was issued, which was later clarified by an e-mail. Moreover, the management of instructions by e-mail was repeated during the crisis of the Covid-19 for the interpretation of the Fauchon law of 10 July 2000 on the criminal liability of elected officials and business leaders. With regard to pre-trial detention, the Court of Cassation gave reason to all those who had alerted you, Madam Minister. You set aside these alerts, even taking precedence over the decision of the Council of State – which had been seized – to say that it found nothing to be wrong with. But the Council of State does not rule exactly on the same scope as the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Council. I saw your team "no" from the head to the announcement, by my colleague, of the release figures following the decision of the Court of Cassation. So tell us how many releases there have been as a result of this decision, and how many there will be in the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u42	None!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u43	Indeed, neither I nor anyone wishes there to be releases because you misdrafted a prescription. That would be a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u44	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u45	The ordinances also provided for the extension of police custody without presentation to a magistrate, particularly for minors between the ages of 16 and 18. What motivated this measure in the context of covid-19, knowing that there were not hundreds of police custody of minors between the ages of 16 and 18 during confinement? What was the purpose of these provisions? Why reduce fundamental freedoms in this area, when we know that minors benefit from a special framework in our country? Similarly, forced hospitalizations are subject, after 12 days, to the supervision of the judge of freedoms and detention – JLD. You allowed this check to take place without a hearing and without seeing the doctor, the prisoner or his lawyer. How can we do such a thing? It is already very complicated for the JLD, which does not have specific medical skills, to make an opinion; But without seeing anyone, it's even more delicate. I am pleased that the Council of State decided, following my appeal, that visits by parliamentarians to prisons were a fundamental freedom. That is so much better, and I hope that in the event of a new confinement, we will not have to go to the courts again in order to be able, as parliamentarians, to visit prisons. We were only three during these visits – the parliamentarian, his collaborator and a journalist – but that seemed too much to you. When it came to reporting planned by the administration, there was no problem, everyone could enter; But when he was a parliamentarian, it was just more difficult. Strange! I'll stop for a moment on the incident with the CGT. Madam Minister, what is this story? I learn that you refuse to receive the CGT in a bilateral interview – you resume the bilateral talks with the trade union organisations – because this trade union has filed a complaint against you before the Court of Justice of the Republic. So you refuse to see people on this pretext? What's this? Bullying? Are you asking them to withdraw their complaint? Is this trade union discrimination? I'd like an explanation of that. As for digital, no one has talked about it, but what idea, in full confinement and without asking anyone's opinion, to make a decree – the DataJust decree of 27 March 2020 – defining how algorithms will help judges make decisions about disputes and compensations! I understand that you wanted to take steps in criminal proceedings to prevent people from being sentenced to six months' imprisonment and to devise alternatives, as provided for in the Law on Programming and Reform for Justice; But for the digital, what was the urgency, during the confinement, to take this decree? I'm asking you! Last question: Should we not abandon the reform of juvenile justice rather than increase justice already to the penalty? You wanted to synchronize it with civil justice reform; Looks like it's missed, so you might as well give up, don't you think?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u46	Mrs Paula Forteza has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u47	The crisis of the covid-19 has put a severe strain on the regular functioning of the judicial institution. I take this rostrum to thank all the judges, clerks, prison staff, officials of the Ministry of Justice, but also the lawyers, gendarmes and police officers who have continued, physically or remotely, to ensure that this basic public service continues to be provided, often in difficult working conditions. This crisis has brought to light the challenges facing the judicial institution, which you yourself pointed out: the digitization and modernization of justice. In a communiqué dated 12 May, the Supreme Council of the Judiciary alerted that the state of emergency in the health care system has largely disrupted the normal course of justice, also worrying about the need to adapt both procedures and working methods. He also called on the State to provide the judicial institution with the means necessary for its functioning, despite a difficult budgetary context. On these issues, Madam Minister, it is appropriate to recall the political will that you have displayed. In November 2018, under your leadership, digital transformation was elevated to a high priority. Your plan included at the time an investment of 530 million euros between 2018 and 2022, as well as an ambitious goal to digitise 100% of administrative procedures. However, I would like you to clarify some aspects. The first concerns computer equipment. The lack of laptops for magistrates and clerks has been a major constraint in this time of crisis. You raised that in November 2018, only 3000 computers were in service for about 30,000 magistrates, clerks and administrative staff. During the confinement, the clerks were unable to carry out their missions due to the lack of laptops. More generally, the quality of computer equipment for judges is poor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u49	The use of Windows 95, still seen in places, is no longer suitable, since the publisher ended its technical support more than 18 years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u50	Not to mention the security problems that this poses!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u51	Similarly, office automation tools are not harmonized. The second aspect is the increase in connection rates – a priority shown in the November 2018 plan. With the massive shift towards telework, the ministry's virtual private network did not support the simultaneous connections of 30,000 agents. A new VPN was put in place two to three weeks later, but the lack of throughput has put a stop to the multiplication of video conferencing, which is still essential for remote work, and even though these could be a way to make justice more accessible in the future as the travel times between courts and litigants grow longer. The development of video conferencing in the administration is not a specific subject for the Ministry of Justice; We now have these debates in our Assembly. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group calls for the adoption of a sovereign and secure video conferencing tool for the whole administration; This should be a government priority in the coming months. Finally, with regard to the dematerialization of proceedings, the impossibility of physically visiting the courts has complicated the task of lawyers and magistrates in certain cases. Since some documents were too heavy to be communicated by e-mail, they could not be placed on file, as indicated by the National Bar Council. In your transformation plan, you indicated that civil electronic communications with lawyers would allow 10 megabytes of coin exchange, compared to 4 megabytes currently. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The covid-19 epidemic was a national tragedy, reminding us of how vulnerable we were, but the opening weeks can provide a tremendous opportunity to learn from our flaws and accelerate pre-existing transitions. The digital transformation of justice, like that of the entire administration, is an imperative of the twenty-first century. It must be done with the citizens and not against them, and it must take into account the digital divide – often social and generational – in order not to remove the justiciable from justice, but rather to bring it closer to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u52	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u53	Everyone will agree: parliamentary vigilance is a strong democratic demand, especially in times of major crisis, because it is in adversity, such as the one we have just experienced, that the value of a pluralistic system, which respects human rights and fundamental freedoms, is measured. We come out of a period of rare difficulty and intensity. These difficulties, as we know, have affected the functioning of our judicial and penitentiary system. The functioning of justice during the confinement period – linked to the establishment of a state of health emergency – has been criticized; Nothing more normal. As long as they have a factual basis and serve the perfectability of the rule of law, criticism is admissible and must be viewed with respect and a sense of responsibility, both in terms of immediate policies and democratic history. This has been said on several occasions and deserves to be taken into account, in particular, the lack of information technology resources for the judicial institution in general and the body of clerks in particular. But to be objective, it is also necessary to go back to the facts and examine in a neutral light what happened between the law of 23 March, which established the state of health emergency, and that of 11 May, which extended it. This is what I have endeavoured to do by rigorously analysing the activities of the bar associations of Montpellier and Béziers. When we examine things objectively, we find that the period was marked by several trends. Firstly, a great material resilience: thanks to the concern for the protection of agents, the rather systematic use of teleworking and the establishment of electronic and telephone hotlines, a number of essential activities have been maintained. Organizational resilience also includes reorganizing hearings, implementing video conferencing judgements, avoiding the movement of incarcerated persons, and adapting sentence enforcement to situations. At the same time, the activity was adapted to the short-term reality: first, when necessary, as in Béziers, the incidents of detention were dealt with; Criminal policy has been adapted by prioritizing cases of flagrante delicto or cases requiring a prompt judicial response; The focus has been on combating domestic violence, sanctions for non-compliance with containment measures and the fight against trafficking in prisons. Anything that could legitimately be postponed was referred back. This has resulted in a focus on key activities: criminal missions and emergencies in civil and family matters. In short, in an exceptional situation, emergency measures. In addition – it is to be credited to the judicial institution in general – the time has been used to eliminate the stocks of mail and information files set aside, to draw up the judgements in deliberation and to process the applications. In short, during this complicated period, justice had an activity worthy of a high level of performance. She then ensured the transition to the period in which we are now entering and which will have to see what is to be purged through a new schedule of hearings by the end of 2020, early 2021, the establishment of additional correctional hearings in the coming weeks, the resumption of preliminary investigations and the provision, it was said, of 1000 individual contractors to deal with the cases – nine in the Béziers court, which is appreciated by the institution. Let us beware that these events – which, let us not lose sight of them, are quite exceptional – will soon be a bad memory and that all the damage that has resulted from this situation will be repaired.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u54	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u55	The functioning of justice during the crisis of the covid-19 has been the subject of many criticisms. Even in times of crisis, especially in times of crisis, it is up to the State to ensure the continuity of the public service of justice. This obligation is consistent with the rule of law and respect for the most fundamental principles of the constitutional bloc. It is precisely in the light of this requirement that the functioning of justice during the crisis should be assessed today. On 16 March, in the absence of means of protection, you announced, Madam Keeper of the Seals, the closure of all the courts in France except for essential disputes. In this context, telework has been widespread. Many computer and technological problems were reported. Registry staff have not been provided with sufficient means to telework, while all legal professionals – including magistrates – have not been able to have remote access to their usual computer environment nor have they been able to exchange voluminous documents through the dematerialised channels. This period of crisis has thus highlighted the indigence of the Ministry of Justice, in particular its structural under-equipment in new technologies, even though you have constantly praised your digital transformation plan 2018-2022 being implemented, with the objective of complete dematerialization of civil and criminal channels. The courts have thus suspended a significant part of their functions. Several orders had been issued to amend judicial, criminal and administrative procedures as well as access to the law, some of which had been challenged by the Court of Cassation. I am thinking, for example, of the extension of pre-trial detention as a matter of law, which was authorized by article 16 of the order of 25 March without the intervention of the judicial judge. While the majority of civil litigation was abandoned during this period, the portion of the continued criminal litigation has been severely weakened and the guarantees granted to litigants have been degraded: single judge, video conferencing hearings and even by telephone, proceedings without a hearing and judgement in the absence of the accused or detained for lack of extraction, restricted or even suppressed advertising... Moreover, each court had to determine, according to its means, the list of essential disputes whose treatment had to be continued during the health crisis, with sometimes paradoxical injunctions from the Chancellery, I was told, and on the basis of a purely indicative perimeter. This crisis management, different from one jurisdiction to another, has amplified the existing territorial disparities and called into question the territorial fairness between the courts. A group of lawyers pointed out in this regard that "by refusing to take on a national plan of continuation and now of resumption of activity", the ministry had "regionalized justice, creating serious disparities and an unprecedented breakdown of equality between citizens". Indeed, the assessment of the urgency of a case, of the implementation of a videoconference or of a deliberate procedure without a hearing varied according to the judges of permanent office or according to the instructions of the presidents of chambers and tribunals. From one bar to another, lawyers have also been more or less confronted with difficulties with regard to designations to assist detainees or accused persons in their immediate appearance. As for the deconfinement, on 11 May, it had to be implemented by applying instructions announced only four days before. Today, the use of simplified, dematerialized or degraded modes of judgment must cease as soon as possible. Several actors in the justice system have expressed fears about this, in the face of justice faced with historical congestion and untenable delays in judgement. It is not acceptable that exceptional procedures implemented through orders, such as video conferencing or non-hearing procedures, should continue to meet management logics or inventory reduction targets. Respect for the procedural guarantees must prevail in the interest of the litigant. Judicial life must therefore resume, with important means to ensure the proper functioning of human justice and the protection of freedoms and rights. [[Laugh. – Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The interest of the just as the general interest requires today, more than ever, a real Marshall plan for justice in terms of human and material resources – my colleagues Hubert Wulfranc and Alain Bruneel have pointed out that I would have done better to talk about Gosplan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u56	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u57	It has been three months since our country was shaken by the covid-19 pandemic. It is quite understandable that the justice system was also stunned, as it was already coming out of two months of lawyers' strike. But it must be noted that she has, despite everything, been able to cope. I will therefore begin by paying tribute to all those who have taken part in this work. It is thanks to them that justice has not been paralyzed and that our country has remained a rule of law, even during this historic crisis. It is also thanks to the means given to justice by our majority – the justice reform of 23 May 2019, which you defended, Madam Keeper of the Seals, has allowed, in civil and criminal matters, more speed, simplicity and legibility for litigants. To support this ambition, we decided an unprecedented increase in your ministry's budget – more than 24% over five years – with a specific effort of more than 500 million euros for its digital transformation. Of course, because of confinement, the judiciary, like so many other sectors, has seen its capacity to work limited. Judges had to work remotely, while clerks could not because of inadequate computer tools. In view of this, let us speed up the digital project to further dematerialize the procedures and develop certain tools such as the video-audience. As early as 15 March, it was therefore essential to protect staff as well as litigants. Business continuity plans – PCA – have been implemented, focused on emergencies, with perhaps a few courts that have almost been stopped when so many others knew how to mobilize their living forces. These CACs will therefore need to be evaluated to make the judiciary even more resilient, evenly throughout the country. In this context, and while our colleague Bérangère Couillard's bill and members of the La République en marche are currently being considered in the Senate, we welcome the priority given to domestic violence. Containment has exacerbated domestic and family violence, resulting in an increase of 35 per cent in reporting. Emphasis was placed on caring for perpetrators of violence, including evictions and accommodation outside the family home. This effort deserves to be continued, in the logical follow-up to the conclusions of the Grenelle des violences conjugales. The health risk didn't stop there. Nor did he stop at the doors of the prisons, where both the prisoners and the staff had to be put to safety, whose sense of responsibility and commitment on the ground I was able to see. We should also welcome the social support measures of the detainees, which have helped to ease the tensions that strict confinement could have caused. With an overpopulation of 120 per cent in our prisons at the beginning of March, it was also necessary to take exceptional early release measures to restore a normal level of occupation. But I want to reassure everyone here: crime has not been defused. We had voted to experiment with prison regulation, which was able to be deployed in full-scale during this crisis. Alternatives to detention decided ab initio or home sentences for selected and accompanied offenders for better reintegration allow us to get out of the all-carceral and finally bring the prison occupancy rate to a level that we all call our wishes here. We must now seize this unique opportunity to generalize prison regulation, and above all not re-incarcerate when the offender's profile does not require it and other sentences are possible and conducive to better reintegration. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Today, as the judicial system gradually resumes its normal course, the time is not at trial but at the balance sheet. The innovative tools that have enabled the educational continuity initiated at the National School of the Judiciary and the National School of Prison Administration deserve to continue. We have all seen initiatives and good practices in our territories that will need to be identified and evaluated; Some are aimed at curbing the judicial embolism that might be feared. This crisis may give us all the opportunity here to improve. We know that we can count on you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and on your determination to modernize and support your administration, which has been unwavering for three years. We have no doubt that you will know how to continue this work and seize this opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u58	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u59	On the proposal of the Group of the European People's Party, we have to debate this evening, in this House, the functioning of justice during the crisis of the covid-19. In my personal capacity, I would have called this debate, which I hope will provide us with specific answers from you, Madam Keeper of the Seals, "discussion on the non-functioning of justice during the crisis of the Covid-19." As a matter of responsibility, we had initially trusted you by giving you, wisely but cautiously, the possibility of governing through ordinances, as the context required. You have used, if not abused – I will return to it – this authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u60	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u61	In less than two months, you have issued numerous orders to deal with the epidemic and to allow the judicial institution to continue its indispensable litigation activity, as we all wanted. To achieve this objective, however, it would have taken several cumulative elements, such as sufficient resources, a calm judicial climate or tools to ensure continuity of service for all. However, as was said before me, we have deplored poor digital connections and an insufficient number of laptops: working conditions have been deplorable during this period. Madam Keeper of the Seals, the institution has not been up to date. You have agreed to confine justice: no one can condone it. For three years, notwithstanding your laws and your statements, the tension has been rising among the professionals of the justice system, as the dialogue is completely broken, until this historic blockage of the judicial institution a few weeks ago during the reform of pensions. This flight forward of justice was no longer bearable, and the covid-19 came to give a blow of grace to the more than instable balance of the public service of justice, which was put almost to the stop. In civil matters, for example, almost all hearings have been postponed, which has blocked and still blocks many cases. The upgrades, which were to operate smoothly, were also paralyzed. Behind this, as you know, Madam seal keeper, there are women and men waiting for a court decision for a dispute that is often important to their daily lives, whether it is family, prud'homal or commercial. They were also women and men who, for weeks, could not contact the transplants because they were unreachable. In criminal matters, the finding is no better. How can we tolerate, for example, keeping a person in detention without being brought before a judge? How can we explain that, on the pretext of a virus, you were releasing more than 12,000 prisoners in mid-May? How far can this health crisis lead? As a complementary example of the functioning of our institution, I deeply deplore your bill containing various urgent provisions to deal with the consequences of the covid -19 epidemic, both the experimentation of criminal courts in a number of departments, which you have wanted, allows you to send cases late for the sittings, to try to respond to the Government's shortcomings in the area of justice, to question the democratic tradition of the popular jury and to practice, for the next time, territorial differentiation. In addition to this bill, the Ministry of Justice has instructed each jurisdiction to do as it could, inevitably leaving room for a difference in the assessment and processing of cases by territory. That is not acceptable. Finally, it is not tolerable that telework is possible in almost all professional sectors in France, but that justice, for lack of sufficient resources, cannot provide the services of the registries with digital tools to enable them to process the files remotely and to respond to the legitimate demands of the litigants. Justice actors, magistrates, court clerks, paralegals and lawyers were completely out of business during this period. What can be done to respond to these professionals and to those who have been waiting for a decision or information for several weeks? How can we respond to those who are concerned about the state of disrepair of our judicial institution, who wonder about the fatalistic acceptance of a predictive justice where the algorithm would replace the magistrates? The risky management of the health crisis with regard to the judicial authority has led to legal uncertainty: this is a major and dramatic consequence of the latest events for all legal professionals as well as for the litigants, who today need a guard of the seals at the height of the expectations of the judicial institution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u63	A relevant intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u64	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments. Each of your interventions would require a response of several minutes. This is not how I will proceed; I'll just try to focus on a few big points. In the preamble, I would like to point out that justice has not been at the judgment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u66	It was above all the rule of law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u67	... contrary to what I've read too often and to what you just said, Mr. Viry. Justice has not shown its "state of disrepair" – I repeat your remarks – but, on the contrary, its ability to act in the context of a completely new health crisis. To describe this ability to act, I will use an image that I have already had the opportunity to evoke, that of the iceberg. The places of justice are by definition places of meeting, where litigants meet and meet with lawyers and magistrates. During the period of health crisis we had to close them. But closing a place of justice does not mean suspending the work of the courts. The most important submerged part of the iceberg continued to function. That is what I would like to briefly explain to you. I would like to make four observations. First, as has been said by some of you, justice has worked. I shall quote only a few figures, so as not to prolong the debate. Emergencies have been dealt with in the criminal, civil and commercial sectors in a completely correct manner. In criminal matters, for example, from 16 March to 11 May, the Office of the Public Prosecutor recorded 170,000 complaints and brought proceedings before the Criminal Court in 24,000 cases, of which nearly 4,600 were pending. In the face of such figures, can we say that justice was totally at the end of the day? Over 18,000 cases were tried by the correctional courts during this period. Freedom and detention judges issued 18175 decisions during confinement, 7% more than in 2019 during the same period. This really makes sense, especially since this sustained activity was obviously linked to requests for release. In civil cases, according to still provisional data, family judges handed down more than 5000 decisions in April. Finally, a single figure is an emblematic summary of the fact that, contrary to what some of you have said and contrary to what I have too often read in the press, the courts have actually worked: in Paris, 5650 civil judgments were written during the confinement. Secondly, this period will, of course, lead to longer trial periods, but it will not necessarily significantly increase stocks. Indeed, while the number of hearings has been significantly reduced, with a few exceptions, criminal activity has also been reduced due to the absence, or sharp reduction, of street crime. As a result, stocks did not increase in criminal cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u68	In criminal matters, we agree. But for the civilian?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u69	For civilians, caution should be exercised, but I do not think that stocks have increased very significantly either. I am therefore very clear: yes, trial time will increase temporarily. That is why you have adopted a number of decisions, particularly on criminal matters, allowing prosecutors to reorient certain cases. On the other hand, stocks will not increase significantly. I will make a third important observation that will allow me to respond to Mrs Forteza and many others among you: we have mobilized to make the best use of information technology, even though the crisis has indeed demonstrated the need to continue our efforts in this area. If we were able to do what we did – video conferencing hearings that allowed us to limit the extractions of prisoners, the links between legal professionals – it was because we built a base, a network at last up to the level. Since the enactment of the law of reform for justice, which you voted for, no less than 100 million euros have been invested to connect 1000 judicial sites to fiber. If this had not existed, the magistrates would not have been able to write their judgements and we would not have been able to hold all the hearings, video conferencing or video-audiences that took place. That must be said. It must also be said, in response to Paula Forteza who raised this subject, that in a few days we have grown from 2500 remote connections – the cruising rhythm of the ministry's network – to 40,000 connections. The Ministry of Justice thus became, during confinement, the ministry using the largest part of the inter-ministerial network of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear the criticisms and I would like to admit them all, but we must also point out what has been done. Finally, I will tell you one last thing: before the crisis, 22000 ultra-portable computers were in service within the ministry. All magistrates have them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u70	Not the clerks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u71	Mrs Untermaier, I have just said that all the magistrates...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u72	I'm talking about the clerks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u73	Let me finish my sentence! All magistrates are equipped with ultra-portables; I recognize that a number of clerks have also received, but not in sufficient numbers. It is obvious that it is on this point that our effort must be focused. I would add that in addition to the ultra-portables we already have, we have distributed an additional 4000 and that an additional 5,000 will be distributed by the end of 2020. In a few days, we also deployed with counsel an application service that allows for the remote filing of important files made up of numerous exhibits. This is the PLEX tool, which Ms.Forteza also mentioned. It works and, as of today, more than 1500 lawyers have already used it. We have therefore made considerable efforts to facilitate the work of the Ministry of Justice. If there is still one point on which we need to move forward, it is on the provision of ultra-portables and the deployment of telework applications for clerks. As you have said, we must always learn from a crisis. My last observation concerns detention, a subject on which we have also made a considerable effort. I would remind you that the first objective was to stop the health crisis and prevent the disease from developing in detention. But I think I can say that we have reached it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u74	Not in my constituency!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u75	Detainees and agents were, of course, hit by the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u76	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u77	I also regret the death of a prison officer; of course we assured his family of our presence at his side. But beyond these cases, the epidemic has not spread in detention as a result of the measures taken. For example, we removed prisoners who were only a few weeks away from the end of their sentence from detention: nearly 6,000 prisoners were granted reduced sentence credits or early release with house arrest. Moreover, with the decrease in criminal activity, some persons who might have entered detention did not enter. As of June 4, 2020, we had 58908 inmates, or 13667 fewer. The prison population rate is thus 96 per cent in all institutions, compared to 119 per cent as at 16 March 2020. I have said that this rate is understood by all institutions, and I do not deny in any way the large disparities that exist. I stress that we have conducted and monitored this process well because, as you know, I have refused to pass laws of general amnesty, so that each situation can be dealt with individually. We must continue to control it; This is the objective of the prison regulation to which must contribute the provisions that you have adopted in the 2019 law and the sustained work that we conduct with the courts and the prison administration. I would like to say a final word about pre-trial detention, which several of you have mentioned. It is an extremely delicate subject and I obviously share – and I do more than share – the opinion of the Court of Cassation: any detention must of course be under the control of a judge. However, contrary to what some of you have said here, the Court of Cassation did not at all declare that the provisions we had made were contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. In its judgment, which I invite you to read, the Court considers it compatible with Article 5 of the Convention, provided that the accused has been able to see a judge within a time limit which it has fixed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u78	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u79	I'm not inventing anything, honourable Member: the formula appears in the judgment. The provisions that you adopted were precisely in this direction and remained applicable between 25 March and 11 May: approximately 3000 pretrial detentions were thus extended automatically. Of the persons concerned, Mr. Bernalicis, only 161 were released because they had not been able to see a judge. This means that all other persons were able to meet a judge, as requested by the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u80	They were released after the arrest on 26 May!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u81	When I told you earlier, honourable Member, that the judges of liberty and detention had had an important activity during the period of confinement, it was precisely because they examined the applications for release that all defendants could make at any time. It is this device that we have put in place, not to please us,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u82	I don't know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u83	...but because we knew that because of confinement, not all magistrates could be present and not all contradictory debates could be assured. The Court of Cassation stated that this arrangement was compatible with Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights, provided that detainees could see a judge. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Christophe Euzet and Mrs. Paula Forteza also applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not here to tell you that everything has worked tremendously. I'm here to describe the reality. The judges, court clerks and court staff, the prison services and the judicial protection of young people continued to work – certainly in a different way than they used to, but they did. That's the message I really want you to help spread because it's the pride of our public service. If you had been in my place, what more would you have done? What would you have decided? Would you have suspended the speakers, or would you have allowed them to continue, as the epidemic spread? What would you have done about the detention? What would you have done about the courts? Would you not have closed the courts, which are meeting places, as the epidemic spread? I assure you, we have really tried to best meet the requirements of public service and I think with the help of its staff, we have succeeded.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u84	The minister's doing great!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u85	We come to the questions. I would remind you that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Eric Pauget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u86	Madam Keeper of the Seals, by a circular of 20 May, dedicated to prison regulation, you have decided, on the pretext of adapting prison responses to the epidemic situation, not to execute short sentences of imprisonment and the use of accommodation measures to speed up exits without effective follow-up. These contained justice measures had already been anticipated by the sentencing judges, the prison directorates, the public prosecutor's offices and the probation and integration services. A few weeks of confinement was sufficient to see the decrease in the number of prison admissions due to the decrease in certain forms of delinquency: as many as 13,000 prisoners were released, mechanically reducing our prison density. The number of prisoners, which amounts to just over 61000, is now less than the number of places in our prisons. Thus the covid-19 becomes a kind of prison regulator and the revealing method of prison management of the Chancery. You seem to be using the epidemic as an adjustment variable to slow down the flow of incarceration. The signal sent by this short-term policy does not respond to a security threat that, as we all know, remains very high in our country. With an occupancy rate still close to 100%, the level of the prison population remains of great concern. The Government's announced goal of creating 7,000 prison places during the quinquennium and 8,000 additional places by 2027 could de facto be rejected. This must ask us about compliance with the objectives and trajectories set by the 2018-2022 programming law and the reform of the justice system in terms of appropriations and staffing. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] What matters to our fellow citizens, what matters to the group of Republicans, Madam Minister, is the security of the French, the fight against recidivism and the fulfilment of the commitments made here. My question will be simple, Madam Minister: can you say that the objectives set and voted will be bound in terms of the creation of prison places and, more generally, the means given to justice for its proper functioning?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u87	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u88	Let me take you back to one point, Mr. Member. Referring to our overall policy during this period of health crisis in criminal matters, particularly with regard to detention, you say that 13,000 detainees have been released: that is not correct. While there are now 13,000 fewer detainees, only about 6,800 have actually been released. You say you are paying attention to the safety of the French: be sure that this is also part of my objectives. I add another objective: the protection of public and individual freedoms, for which I have special responsibility, as you do. In order to reconcile freedoms and security, the fight against recidivism – I agree with you on this point – is a decisive factor. From this point of view, an appropriate criminal policy is a key element. Contrary to what you said, I do not want to slow down the flow of incarceration: I simply want the most appropriate sentence to be imposed on the offender. The most appropriate sentence, the most relevant one, the most meaningful one may be incarceration, but it may also be other sentences. I do not think, particularly for short sentences, that incarceration is the best solution. It seems to me that this is how we can combat recidivism. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, honourable Member, I will of course honour my commitments to the construction of an additional 7,000 prison places by 2022, even though the covid crisis has caused some delay.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u89	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u90	Madam Keeper of the Seals, the period of health crisis on which we hope to emerge quickly has followed a long period of stress on many of the actors in the justice system as a result of the pension reform. The arm of the lawyers, in particular, against the Government, has led these professionals, who have a deep sense of service that they render to their clients to demonstrate and suspend their activities for an unprecedented period of time. For our fellow citizens, this has resulted in an accumulation of delays in the processing of their cases, as well as in the hearing of cases and the rendering of decisions. I have already had the opportunity to question you on a subject that has particularly marked me during this period: the rendering of decisions of family judges. I have received a large number of cases from parents who tried in vain to be notified of the decisions taken by the JAF but had not signed because of the difficulties encountered for several weeks in the dematerialization of transmissions to the transplant. You then told me that you were speeding up the progress of these procedures. Which act, but do you find it normal that a mother only received a decision on 30 May concerning the custody of her child issued by the JAF in March? This is just one of many cases. These delays create anxiety, tension, make it impossible to organize or reorganize one's life and the already deeply upset existence of children. Trust in our justice depends on the fluidity of procedures and the reform of the system, but no one can understand that a mere absence of digital annotation has such serious consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u91	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u92	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u93	Your question concerns two different points. You mentioned the role of lawyers and regulated professions. Throughout this period I have had extremely regular contacts – almost every ten days – with representatives of all regulated professions and judicial auxiliaries. These contacts have enabled us to build a mechanism of support and support for these professions. This can take a variety of forms: lawyers, for example, can benefit from the common law mechanisms established by the Government to assist small businesses. I hope that I have contributed to helping them get over this – I will come back to this subject. You then referred to the delays in the notification of a number of decisions taken in civil matters. As I said, the courts have continued to operate in civil matters, first to take urgent decisions, particularly in the field of family affairs or to issue protection orders against domestic violence. I also told you that 5,000 decisions were rendered by the JAF during this period: this is not negligible. It is true that the notification of decisions, which is the responsibility of the Registrars, has encountered difficulties, as I have already said in response to some of your colleagues, that we have not sufficiently equipped them with computer equipment or software applications: this is the major axis of progress on which I must now work. We can move fast enough in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u94	Mrs Pires Beaune, for the Socialist and related group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u95	Minister, our justice system was also affected by the crisis. It has helped to further weaken this essential public service, already affected by the latest protest movements against pension reform. Courts have been closed, trials adjourned. Continuity plans have been implemented to enable the judicial system to operate on the basis of a minimum service. You have also issued several orders authorizing the use of video-audience, telephone assistance or e-mail notifications. These exceptional measures have encountered many difficulties, and first of all the largely inadequate support of the heads of the courts by their supervisory ministry, already pointed out by the Senate's Law Commission. In particular, they have suffered from the absence of a clear delimitation of the scope of the disputes concerned. Even when the physical presence in court was reduced to a minimum, judicial activity could explode. The sentence enforcement judge was overstretched by prisoners who feared contagion. This health episode has, above all, aggravated difficulties already identified and denounced for several years. While it may be appropriate to seize the opportunities offered by digital technology, the digital debt resulting from the lack of resources has once again prevented these exceptional measures from producing all their effects. The magistrates did not have access to their usual computer environment or the registrars to the virtual private justice network, while remote access to the software to proceed with the pre-trialization of the files was not possible. This crisis has revealed as never before all the misery of the judicial institution, but it has also helped to further weaken the law firms that were already afraid for their survival before the crisis. Does the Government intend to provide the judicial system with the necessary means to enable it to function even in times of crisis? You need to hear from legal professionals, including lawyers, if you want to prevent this health crisis from turning into an existential crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u96	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u97	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] Of course, you are quite free to choose the terms you use, Madam Member, but to speak of "the misery of the judicial institution", anyway! Misery of the judicial institution, when there is no longer a vacant magistrate's office? Misery of the judicial institution, as we continue to recruit more and more legal assistants or prison officers for insertion and probation? Misery of the judicial institution as we invest more than 530 million euros in digital technology? Let me challenge that term! You say that the support of the heads of jurisdiction by the Ministry of Guardianship has been largely insufficient. We must be very clear: the plan for the continuation of the activity that we have put in place is a common foundation for all jurisdictions. This common foundation includes rules of organisation and priority litigation, such as that of individual freedoms or those affecting the security of the French – the immediate appearance, the permanence of the public prosecutor's offices – and the protection of persons, especially children. That is for the general framework, but, Madam Member of Parliament, we have said together – you have spoken widely in this direction and this is in line with my concerns – that justice must remain a local justice system and that there must therefore be local courts. Do you really think that the Paris court works in the same way as Mende's, the Montluçon court in the same way as Clermont-Ferrand's? No! They don't have the same means. During this health crisis, all the magistrates of a small court were unable to be physically present, which was obviously never the case in Paris because of the size of the staff. We have therefore implemented a principle of adaptation and subsidiarity: I do not see how we can do otherwise from the moment we have agreed to maintain local justice. Legal professionals such as lawyers are necessary for our rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u98	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u99	As you know, and I may have the opportunity to come back to it, we have made arrangements for legal aid to receive an advance of EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u100	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u101	[[Yannick Favennec Becot and Nicole Trisse applaud]] It is midnight, Madam Keeper of the Seals, and I wanted to begin my speech by thanking you and your colleagues for being here at this hour to answer the questions of Members. While I know that the Government must be at the disposal of Parliament, I am pleased that in the period we are living, you are spending an evening responding to our demands. It's not often said when it feels good! My question is about the courts of commerce. A few weeks ago, on the occasion of current issues, I asked you about the need to secure economic recovery and to limit the legal uncertainty of those who exercise responsibilities, business leaders, artisans, traders, school or health directors. Commercial courts, including their presidents, can play this role in the period we are experiencing a decisive role, and first of all in mediation. In view of the administrative and judicial imbroglios that our fellow citizens can face, in particular entrepreneurs, artisans, traders, whether they are at the head of SMEs, intermediate companies or large groups, it would be interesting to strengthen the mediation role of the president of the commercial court. My second point concerns the financial sustainability of these structures. The thirty-one judges of the Rennes Commercial Court, for example, have an annual budget of 1,800 euros, or 4.88 euros per judge per month: is it reasonable that in 2020 our commercial courts and their presidents have such low resources?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u102	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u103	Thank you, Congressman, for your thanks! Commercial courts are indeed playing a key role, particularly at this time, in avoiding business failures and accompanying those in difficulty as a result of the economic crisis already under way. A few days ago, I went to the commercial court in Paris to hold a round table; I found it absolutely exciting, as the investment of judges, clerks and all the professions involved in this field is strong. We took several orders to accompany businesses, first in March and, for the most recent one, on May 20th. They had two objectives. On the one hand, it was necessary to initiate proceedings allowing commercial courts to continue to render judgements during confinement. In fact, they have maintained an extremely sustained activity, thanks in particular to the visio-audiences – the examples of Paris or Rennes testify to this. On the other hand, the order of 20 May specifically concerned support for companies, with, again, two objectives: to prevent the difficulties of companies – an increased role being entrusted to the president of the commercial court – and to provide support to companies in difficulty. The extension of the prior conciliation procedure to collective proceedings, as well as, among other examples, the maintenance of inter-firm credit, has been given. Thanks to all these elements, I hope that we will be able to support companies facing the economic difficulties that are expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u104	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u105	Alerted by Jean Lassalle, the Libertés et territoires group is particularly concerned about the consequences of confinement for young people placed with child welfare as part of an educational measure. According to a provision of your circular of 14 March, only the judicial protection services could offer the return of children to their families, on the basis of a criterion that seems unclear to us, that of healthy minors. Our group was also surprised at the exclusion of judicial officers, privileged interlocutors of judges, as well as lawyers representing families and children, from this system. During confinement, no dialogue was established with some of the children's judges, although it was physically possible – by video conferencing, for example – to organize debates to examine these situations. Some children were brutally trapped in total isolation, as a result of the elimination of family returns on weekends and media visits. They have been completely out of school, without any possibility of taking courses via the Internet, due to lack of computers or tablets. What about their health and psychological condition? Minister, why didn't you facilitate the necessary dialogue between legitimately concerned families, their lawyers and children's judges? Your order of 25 March has also set time limits that violate freedoms. The emergency cannot justify everything! How can we accept that children placed for six months stay away from their families for another six months, without a new judicial decision or a review of their situation? In a rule of law, is it acceptable for placements decided outside an emergency context to be extended until one month after the end of the state of emergency?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u106	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u107	This issue has strongly mobilized us, along with the Youth Judicial Protection Services, the PJJ. During confinement, our primary concern was to ensure the continuity of the educational care of children under the JJP in a closed environment. In closed educational centres, strengthened educational centres and collective accommodation, we have generally maintained an activity similar to that which existed before confinement. I must admit that we have encountered more difficulties in the care of children in an open environment, or day care: not only were our staff most often unavailable, but we also had to implement the recommendations of physical distancing related to the health crisis. In fact, for a period of time, the children were not monitored in the institutions concerned. However, all JJP educators were mobilized, either by telework or by telephone, to ensure ongoing contact with these young people and their families. In this way, we have consistently maintained educational continuity with the children in our care. During the confinement, I also spoke with Dominique Bussereau, President of the Assembly of the French Departments, and his entourage, as well as Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State for Child Protection, and the PJJ, to reflect on a better organization of reporting children in difficulty. We decided to work together. The PJJ will provide resources to the information collection cells of concern so that we can improve the reporting of these children as soon as possible. I hope that we have done our best to ensure the educational continuity of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u108	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u109	In your previous responses, Madam Minister, I did not understand well what was happening with the discussions with the labour organizations of the prison administration. I am thinking in particular of the CGT prison, which you have indicated that you would not receive it, unlike the other trade union organisations, on the ground that it had lodged a complaint against you before the Court of Justice of the Republic. It's still extraordinary, given the responsibilities that lay with you in managing the crisis of the Covid-19! The masks were not immediately distributed, instructions indicated that the agents who were wearing a mask when they were not supposed to be exposed to disciplinary sanctions... But do not redo history – I hope that the Court of Justice of the Republic will unravel it, and that it will allow us to examine these issues in substance. So what do you expect of the CGT to withdraw its complaint – which would be intimidation? Do you confirm your refusal to receive it – what would be trade union discrimination? What is your preference between intimidation and discrimination? Why did you make that decision? [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] It also seems that during the epidemic of covid-19, certain fundamentals of the rule of law, the separation of powers and the independence of justice disappeared as if by magic. Thus the Head of State, President of the Republic, guarantor of the independence of the judicial authority on behalf of the Constitution, asked you to inquire about the situation of the Traoré family in the procedure that affects it with the justice – while an investigating judge is in charge of the case! Extraordinary situation, the Traoré family had to decline your invitation in the name of the independence of justice! How did we get there?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u110	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u111	You are asking me about the social dialogue that was built during the period of crisis of the Covid -19 – since this is the subject of our debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u112	We're still there, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u113	During this period, I held weekly audio-conferences or video-conferences with the nine representative trade union organizations, including the CGT. I chaired two health, safety and working conditions committees. I have also held a ministerial technical committee, and the next one is scheduled in a few days; The CGT, like all the trade union organisations, will of course be present. I will not mention here the many other meetings my directors have held with the trade union organisations and all the bodies concerned, nor will I mention the videoconferences and audio-conferencing that I have organised very regularly with the staff of the ministry. Mr President, there is absolutely no intimidation or discrimination on my part: everyone is free to file a complaint as he wishes, when he wants it, before whom he wants it and on the subject he wishes. I am simply careful, in bilateral meetings, not to be with an organization that has complained about me. This does not reflect discrimination or intimidation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u114	They had to be put up for two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u115	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u116	France has been repeatedly condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for the overcrowding of its prisons. For the first time in more than twenty years, almost all prisons are no longer overcrowded. Above all, the players in the prison are unanimous: conditions of imprisonment have improved, tensions have decreased, attacks by supervisors have decreased, and these same supervisors have never felt that they are doing their job properly. However, the nuts are already on the rise, and the overpopulation is looking again. The period we have just lived must encourage us to deepen our reflections on the fight against prison overcrowding and on alternative measures in an open environment, which are insufficiently used, although in this respect, many of our European neighbours show the example. Recidivism is always less when these measures are used. When 63 per cent of those sentenced to a prison sentence were convicted within five years of their release, could it be considered that the prison protected society? At a time when all justice actors are sending an open letter to the President of the Republic in order to seize this moment to end prison overcrowding, understand that every failure – like the one shown by the statistics of recidivism – and every crisis – like the one we are currently experiencing – provides valuable information to look for measures that put people back at the centre, including in terms of prison policy. More humane, less costly and more effective solutions than prison exist; They benefit detained persons and their relatives, as well as prison staff. Madam Minister, will we be able to learn from this crisis, so that the prison population does not rise again?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u117	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u118	I fully share your objectives, as I have had the opportunity to say on many occasions. After the decline in the prison population, you can see that the lockdowns are on the rise. This is no surprise, since, I repeat, the decrease in the prison population observed during confinement was amply the result of the very sharp decline in street crime. When the deconfinity arrives, this crime goes back. For having contacted various prosecutors in the last few days, they have told me of a resumption of this crime, particularly with regard to narcotics. Clearly, therefore, we know that there will be new incarcerations. However, I repeat, I fully share your objective. In order to achieve this, it seems to me that it is appropriate to use all the provisions that you adopted in the law of 23 March 2019 on programming and reform for justice, which came into force last March. I am thinking in particular of two-thirds of the sentence being released under duress, which has been applied since last June, as well as of the possibility of issuing a six-month prison sentence equivalent to house arrest, the more frequent use of electronic bracelets and alternative sentences. As you know, we have made a very considerable effort in the area of work of general interest, since we have set up an agency that offers posts and an application so that this penalty can be easily pronounced. We are working with the Prison Integration and Probation Services, the SPIPs, to conduct rapid social investigations that allow the courts and correctional courts to impose sentences. In short, we are fully mobilized to find the most just punishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u119	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u120	The health injunction "Stay at home! has resonated differently for victims of domestic violence. Together with Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa, you quickly took additional measures and eased certain arrangements to help these people during this unique period of confinement. A major tool for combating this scourge, protection orders are the subject of a national steering committee to assess its effectiveness. In addition, the Grenelle against domestic violence resulted in a 20% increase in applications for protection orders between 2018 and 2019, with a rate of acceptance by the judge of 65%, which brings us closer to Spain, where this rate is 70%. However, a decree issued on 27 May of this year raised some concerns. If the judge does not specify that he informs the spouse that a protection order has been applied for by the victim, the victim must notify the spouse. The decree states that the victim has 24 hours to notify his or her spouse of the date of the hearing, otherwise the decision will lapse. Due to the time required, if only to seize a bailiff in emergency, it is all the effectiveness of the device that finds itself weakened. The amendment tabled this afternoon by our colleague Rossignol during the Senate's consideration of the bill to protect victims of domestic violence seemed interesting to me, or at least suggest a way of thinking with a view to amending this decree. Minister, can you reassure us about this provision contained in the Order-in-Council and provide us with an initial assessment of the fight against domestic violence during confinement?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u121	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u122	Mr Houbron, you stress what I have always considered to be one of the priorities of my ministry, namely the fight against domestic violence. As you indicated, during the period of confinement, I wanted the courts to continue to rule on these matters in criminal proceedings. As far as protection orders are concerned, you recalled the figures: their number is increasing, it has increased from 3000 to 4000 in a year. However, this is not enough. We must continue our efforts to expand the demand for and issuance of orders by lawyers. The decree you mentioned was necessary to enforce the law of 28 December 2019 that you passed. It is intended to ensure the issuance of protection orders within six days – this is the time limit you have set. This is a very short time, and in order for it to be respected, it is necessary that each step of the procedure be adapted to it. However, in the context of the issuance of a protection order, the principle of adversariality must of course be respected. Therefore, we set a 24-hour time limit to serve the date of the hearing on the respondent so that the respondent could prepare its defence. [[Mr DimitriHoubronapplaudit]] However, I have heard the comments made. From tomorrow, the high-ranking civil servant with equality women-men will receive associations and professionals, in particular the bailiffs, to examine how legal aid can come in support of this system. We'll see if there's anything to evolve. I say this clearly: if this proves necessary, I will move them forward without hesitation, and I will do so quickly so that the objective, namely the issuance of protection orders, is achieved, in accordance with the principle of adversariality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u123	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u124	While black gowns and more generally justice professionals already had very good reasons to be angry because of the very questionable reform of the justice system and the unjust reform of pensions, they are now hit hard by the health crisis linked to the covid-19. A lawyer from the Hauts-de-France recently stated that he did not know what disaster it would take for the authorities to find out that justice was in the same state of delict as the hospital. In the midst of the health crisis, many bars had to replace the public authorities to provide lawyers who were conducting urgent hearings with masks and hydro-alcoholic gel, thanks to donations received. Some court staff have even brought sheets to make masks in-house! Telework is complicated because clerks and magistrates cannot connect to certain remote software to rule on ongoing cases without security. Once again, it is necessary to use resourcefulness, DIY, to close the faults. Since the onset of the coronavirus crisis, the judiciary has been slowing down, leaving many prisoners on the floor. Hearings sent or rescheduled, pre-trial detention extended automatically: this time of coronajustice makes the situation even more difficult. We see the spectre of a deep judicial crisis. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] How will justice exhausted by the lack of resources, which already has difficulty, in normal times, in dealing with current affairs, do to deal with a wave of new cases, due to the likely increase in disputes related to coronavirus, for example before the prud'hommes? That's the question I'm asking you, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u125	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u126	You will forgive me, Mr. Bruneel, for not fully agreeing with you. As far as lawyers are concerned, our relations with them have been, I repeat, very frequent during this period – I have tried to be attentive to them. We have ensured that they have access to all the mechanisms put in place by the Government: partial unemployment for employees, the solidarity fund for small businesses, etc. – I cannot quote them in detail here. The Ministry of Justice has also decided on an exceptional legal aid advance of EUR 50 million, applicable now. So we tried to be attentive. I would also like to point out that the mission on the future of the profession of lawyer, its economic balance and its conditions of practice, chaired by Dominique Perben, is due to give its conclusions shortly. With regard to the supply of masks to lawyers, you have drawn up an absolutely apocalyptic picture. I would point out that there are no problems with the provision of masks anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u127	This has not always been the case...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u128	On the other hand, we followed the decision of the Council of State, which asked us to put the lawyers in contact with the suppliers. That's what we did, and that's how things worked out. You evoke the spectre of a deep judicial crisis. As I said earlier: I think that if the crisis of the Covid-19 is going to lengthen the hearing time for some time, the stocks did not increase particularly during this period. The organisation we have adopted and the measures you have voted for should enable us to deal with the new situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u129	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u130	How can I imagine yesterday, then a lawyer, that today I would have the honour of saying news that has been awaited for decades? There are fewer inmates in France than there are prison places available. Finally, our prisons are breathing! In order to prevent the spread of the virus in detention, prosecutors and sentence enforcement judges seized the order of 25 March 2020 and proceeded with the release with a reduction in the number of prisoners. Together with the decline in the crime inherent in confinement, this measure has led to a drastic reduction in the number of inmates – you recalled the figures, minister. Every effort must be made to ensure that this unprecedented situation is maintained and not just a breath. Overpopulation is indeed the primary cause of prison dysfunction. The decline in the number of prisoners has led to widespread appeasement in places of detention for both prison officers and detainees, the result of a virtuous circle: the end of duplication and the presence of a single prisoner per cell, the more satisfactory conditions of detention, the reduction of tensions and violence, and the improvement of relations between prisoners and prison staff. These conditions will deteriorate again if we return to an overcrowded prison situation. The best way to relieve prison congestion is to put less people in detention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u132	Let us be clear: the French have the right to security, and imprisonment must of course be pronounced when the facts are serious or because of the dangerous nature of the offender. In other cases, on the other hand, tools must be made available to judges to sanction otherwise. Alternative penalties, such as the work of general interest promoted by the law of 23 March 2019 on programming and reform for justice, must be used more by judges. Prison regulation could also be a relevant tool. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Are you, Madam Minister, in favour of the inmate's occupancy rate becoming a criterion for determining the sentence in the same way as the inmate's criminal record or history?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u133	Very good question! I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u134	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u135	[[Smile]] Mrs Untermaier agrees with you, Mrs Galliard-Minier: this is great! So I can only agree with your proposal – which I am happy to do. You have demonstrated this: prison overcrowding is not a fatality and, with an occupancy rate of 96% all facilities combined – 108% if we take into account men's detention centres – we have reached a situation that actually allows us to work properly. Nevertheless, I am not obsessed with the figures: what matters to me is not the results, it is to carry out a criminal policy adapted to the situations that we have to deal with. As you said, we have put in place a whole series of alternative penalties: we are developing work of general interest – 21,000 posts are now available – electronic bracelets, etc. All of this offers alternatives to imprisonment. I also think it is very important that the courts, the prison services of integration and probation, the prison directors work together, jurisdiction by jurisdiction, to analyse the situation with the tools and dashboards that we will provide them,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u137	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... to build an appropriate criminal policy, and thus to pursue a policy of prison regulation. This is my ambition, that is my will, that I am trying to share with all the staff who work in my administration and with the magistrates. I think that is how we will pursue an effective criminal policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u138	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u139	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u140	The observation that we made in 2017 regarding the functioning of justice was without appeal: access to justice was too complicated for many French. We committed ourselves to providing appropriate solutions, and that is what we have done through the law of programming and reform for justice. By adopting this text, we have not only decided to significantly increase the budget of justice, from € 6.7 billion in 2017 to € 8.3 billion in 2022, but also to simplify the lives of citizens and the justice of everyday life. This easier access to justice requires simpler and faster procedures, greater proximity and, above all, a dematerialization of procedures to the tune of 100 per cent by 2022. The health crisis we have been experiencing for almost three months has prompted us to collectively rethink our way of working. This also applies, of course, to the professions of justice. Constraints related to confinement have led to significant adaptations to ensure continuity of activities for lawyers and litigants, as well as for magistrates and agents. This crisis will have highlighted the advantages and needs of the digitization of justice on a daily basis. This assessment must be taken into account in order to improve this now essential aspect of the functioning of justice. Can you, Madam Minister, confirm to us that the dematerialization undertaken with the law of programming and reform for justice will be accompanied by a supply of equipment in good condition, reliable, of quality and secure, as well as a dedicated computer help service, in order to facilitate the work of the judicial staff and to guarantee access to justice for all our citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u141	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u142	The health crisis has highlighted the vital contribution of digital technology, but also the ways to adapt us; I can't believe it. Let me just quote a few figures that I find symbolic. Today we have more than 85 teleworking applications, compared to 25 before the crisis, as well as 2200 video conferencing systems. Our private virtual network, which I mentioned earlier, has increased in a few days from 2500 to more than 40,000 connections, and it works! We deployed the secure courier Tchap, acquired 200 telephone bridges to perform audio conferencing. Our fleet of ultra-portables of the last model has increased from 22000 units to 25,000 on 8 June; 35000 is planned at the end of the year. As of 11 May, a cybercamera system was made available for hearings with lawyers and experts. The entry into service of the PLEX platform allows the dematerialized transmission of large files by lawyers. Again, these devices are not coming: they work now, as I speak to you. We have authorized the electronic signature of the notarized documents. Since May, the TGI in Paris has been experimenting with the use of IPWEB for payment orders. The Ministry of Justice is one of the main users of digital means, and even the first in the case of the virtual private network, video conferencing services, etc. However, this work has not been completed; We still need to make progress. But we have done a lot, and managing the crisis would have been much more difficult without this acquired foundation, without the applications that we have already developed. I am not even talking here about the digital criminal procedure, experienced in Amiens and Blois: very soon, it will change the lives of magistrates and clerks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u143	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u144	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u145	The next item is the debate on austerity in the health and health of the public hospital. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u146	The health crisis we have just experienced is unprecedented in today's era. In many ways, it shakes our certainty and demands more humility in the face of the responsibility of each one of us. On 16 March, the President of the Republic opted for an offensive, warrior speech. Any war requires soldiers and equipment. The soldiers, we had them: they distinguished themselves during this confusing, anxious, violent, murderous period; They're health professionals. Sent without ammunition to the front line, they do not ask today for drums or trumpets, but of what to come out of the downfall where they plunged this crisis crossed with breath, at the end of their arms, at the end of their nerves. How many have been victims of covid-19, how many have contaminated their loved ones, their patients, for lack of protection, that is to say lack of sufficient anticipation and response by the state? This crisis has revealed nothing new about the state of the hospital public service, the daily lives of caregivers and hospital staff. She only highlighted what professionals have been denouncing for years. In support of my remarks, I will read to you the testimony of Estelle, nurse nurse and member of the Inter-Emergences collective: "Despite: adjective describing the state of mind in which I am today regarding the evolution of my profession in the public hospital. After more than a year of strike movements across France to alert a cruel lack of human and material resources and a loss of sense in the exercise of our professions, I am disappointed. However, this unprecedented health crisis has only confirmed it. Unfortunately, they didn't understand anything... and try to get us into their elucubrations. "I have never asked for any bonus, medal or honour; and much less that the population gives me its days of rest to go on vacation. This is the most complete indecency! These government proposals, such as the actions to call for donations from our regional health departments or agencies during the crisis, caused me to die of shame. That's not what I represent, I don't want to be associated with that and much less than the population so supportive thinks I'm a capricious little girl afterwards. "Like all of you, I have family, friends, acquaintances who have suffered and who are still suffering from this crisis. I have never forgotten them, the same is true of all those who have continued to feed, serve,... the population. So yes, today I'm disillusioned with the turn that's taking place, but I want to say that I won't let go. I will continue to cry out to be able to practice correctly, to take care of you and to accompany you with dignity, you, your families, your friends,... "That's why, humbly... I'm asking for a salary upgrade of all paramedics to make the trades more attractive and that we can exercise in sufficient numbers in the care services at your side. I request that the closure of the beds/structures be stopped and that the necessary beds be reopened in your interest. For it is intolerable for me to see you "vegetate" or sleep on stretchers. I call for the stagiairisation of all precarious contracts allowing also the stability of the staff giving them access to training and better management. See, therefore, that I am neither a heroine nor a capricious person, but a person like you, attached to his profession, anxious to exercise it decently in your interest. » Madam Secretary of State, I do not know if you have read this letter; Now, I'm at least sure you'll have heard it. If we stick only to the last decade, the public hospital has become a laboratory for technocrats, a playground for the sorcerer apprentices of austerity. Regional health agencies, RHAs, such as COPERMO, the Interdepartmental Committee for Performance and Modernisation of Care Delivery, have only been tools for transcription of the public service hospital in accounting writing, negation of its vocation. I want proof of this from the CHRU – the regional and university hospital centre – of Nancy, under a plan to remove 600 posts and close 200 beds. If the execution of this plan is suspended, it is due to the unconscious communication of the director of the ARS; But the future of CHRU is still uncertain. We need concrete commitments: this should be the goal of the Ségur de la santé, whose beginnings do not reassure anyone. The minister fired those who said too much about your plans, but what the French are asking you is to draw a line on the general austerity. The denunciation of the situation in the EHPAD also applies to the public hospital, emptied of its meaning, reduced to running with the private structures which, they, can choose their patients. France that treats everyone is a France of the public. Measure the emergency: Resuscitation units are lacking to cope with the worsening of a given situation, an epidemic of covid-19 or other. Understand the need for information, deadlines, patients and their loved ones. To switch into a care society, it will not take promises, but means; You will also have to give back your trust to healthcare professionals. During the summer of 2017, I went up to this same forum to tell you about Virginia Henderson's fourteen basic needs. You were joking back then. Today, care appears to be a priority political opportunity; In this context, the fulfilment of needs is essential. The public hospital must be at the heart of tomorrow's health architecture, and if we want to draw this one, there is an urgent need to change methods. The plan "my health 2022" was a catastrophic empty shell, going back to maintaining the solutions of the past; Even Emmanuel Macron acknowledged the failure. Each year, the hospital's expenses increase by about 4% and its budget increase by 2%: the account is not there. In 2018, hospitals were expected to save €960 million, despite rising resources; in 2019, 650 million. During the review of the initial finance bill for 2020, despite the big-pump announcement of a large hospital plan, 800 million savings were required from hospitals, 4.2 billion from health insurance. Since Emmanuel Macron came to power, there have been 12 billion savings on health spending! The numbers are cold in the back, the reality even more. How many deaths could have been avoided if the means had been up to the stakes, if you hadn't removed beds in turn, year after year? If the epidemic had exceeded the levels it had reached in the Grand Est and Île-de-France, cataclysm became inevitable. You benefit from a system that, despite your unhappiness, still feels the ambition of our elders. We're lucky to have caregivers who have done everything they can to keep the services up. But you have made our social protection a laughable caricature of solidarity. Caregivers carrying garbage bags in the absence of blouses, doctors and home practitioners without equipment, contradictory instructions: this is your management of the crisis. At the announcement of confinement, you had all the trust and benevolence of the nation; You lied to the French and deprived hospitals of means. I forgot: you have still been able to flatter yourself with the increase in the number of places in resuscitation. You had tripled the capacity in the resuscitation services! Not too bad on the back? The beds weren't too hard to push, the facilitators to move? This achievement has been accomplished by hospital services, technical services, health care personnel, administrative staff and management. You have done something, however: you have opened the gates of funding. That's why hospitals have been able to hold on to what's worth, but to hold on. How many times have I told you to give them more money? Ms Buzyn replied that our organisations were no longer suitable, staff not sufficiently trained; it was a point of honour not to live on her children's back, not to leave them with debts. During the crisis, the slogan became: "No matter what it costs". What a waste! Within the hospital public service, indecent salaries are proposed. In my constituency, as in many border regions, caregivers are often forced to work abroad to get better pay, and hospital managers are deplorable for failing to fill their positions. It's time to close this shameful parenthesis. Even Martin Hirsch, who usually prefers the economy to health, has pulled the alarm bell. Ladies and gentlemen, let us renew our identity. The identity of France is the public service; The identity of France is the possibility for everyone not to worry about the next day. The public hospital is at the heart of happy days. Between 1945 and 1960, by creating the CHRUs, we brought out a hospital network whose grid spread throughout the country as the needs of the population increased. The increase in life expectancy, and above all in healthy life expectancy, depends on this hospital supply. Under the austerity regime, this healthy life expectancy is decreasing, especially among the weakest among us. [[Mr. Adrien Quatennens applauds]] The covid-19 epidemic is a test to take seriously: nothing should be like before. This paradigm shift will not occur naturally; We must provoke the world of tomorrow. The hundreds of doctors resigning from their administrative duties, the strikes of white coats, the disarray of emergencies, the neglect of psychiatry, the commodification and privatization of EHPADs, are the evils of our time, and closing the book of austerity must be our minimum objective. "Happy days" are not a slogan, but a political agenda; national union can only be achieved on social conquests.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u147	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u148	On 27 February, during his visit to the Hospital of Pitié-Salpêtrière, the President of the Republic was arrested by a doctor from the hospital. "We have to save the public hospital! ", said the latter. This alarm cry from the nursing staff, which I thank once again for his unwavering commitment, is not new. For several years now, public hospitals have been experiencing a profound and very worrying crisis. Several strikes, including on public mental health institutions, have highlighted a critical financial situation. I had demonstrated this in the conclusions of a flash mission conducted in 2019 on the financing of psychiatry, distinct from the parliamentary report that I co-edited with Caroline Fiat. Caregivers lack the means, but in terms of governance too, the hospital is in a state of suffering. Repeated alerts for almost ten years have found an important echo during the unprecedented crisis that we have just experienced and the caregivers will be back on the street to be heard on June 16. The French health care system is largely based on the hospital sector. It is therefore urgent to empower hospitals to meet legitimate public health expectations. Caregivers do not wait for medals or thanks from politicians, they wait for concrete measures and means to be able to work with dignity. The recent opening of the Ségur de la santé is, in my view, an opportunity to seize. It is time to take concrete action to improve the situation of the public hospital service. Again, I regret that it took a crisis like that of covid-19 for the Government to be confronted with this imperative requirement. The hospital is in great danger and must be endowed with important means, far from an inappropriate activity pricing. Caregivers, on the other hand, must be better paid and be able to restore meaning to their profession. How is it possible to explain the lack of masks for caregivers during such a health crisis? How to explain the lack of blouses and protective goggles, how to explain the lack of resuscitation beds? How have countries like Greece been able to go through this crisis by accounting for forty times less deaths than we did? There are many issues and the Government will have to learn all the lessons it needs from the period to build a hospital that is no longer in full swing in health crises. While the caregivers should have been the first to be protected, they paid an unacceptable tribute, both physical and psychic. The hospital is a public service that must operate in synergy with other medical and medical-social infrastructures in the territory. Let us stop once and for all following a financial logic disconnected from medical projects and opt for a human hospital, whose primary objective would become access to quality care for all. For this, let us change the activity pricing, which leads to all these drifts. France is one of the European countries that pays its hospital care providers the least: salary revalorisation must be sensitive and sustainable. After a crisis like the one we have experienced, the return to a previous salary scheme would be a real shame. In the same vein, the upgrading of careers and prospects for change needs to be improved. It is also the administrative and organizational crisis that needs to be addressed. Too much administrative management has led to demotivation of caregivers and absenteeism. Let us return to the basic mission of hospitals: the care of patients, of all patients. For this, the return to a human hospital is essential. Also and above all, in order to discharge hospitals, a new territorial health organisation must be considered. The heaviness of the present system inevitably directs us towards the bankruptcy of our public service. Let us therefore encourage the gradual transition to outpatient care and establish public-private partnerships that promote coherent care pathways. In short, the group Ecology Democracy Solidarity wants strong choices: more investments in structures, more means for caregivers, a salary increase to the level of their missions, and the handing over of care and the human to the centre of the hospital's concerns, both in the MCO – medicine, surgery, obstetrics – and in the psychiatry. Madam Secretary of State, will Segur be sufficient to ensure all these answers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u149	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u150	The French hospital is a hospital of excellence: doctors are among the best trained in the world, all specialties are represented, access to effective care is possible for all, staff are highly qualified and equipment is well maintained. The French hospital is therefore, yes, a hospital of excellence. Yes, but... French hospitals suffer. The strike launched by the emergency services in March 2019 and followed by 250 of them gradually extended to other services. Claims concerning the whole hospital have emerged: salary increases, increase in staff, reopening of beds, improvement of conditions and organization of work... So, in September, the Government presented an emergency restructuring pact providing for the redeployment of 700 million euros by 2022. Then, in November, he presented a plan for the hospital with an unprecedented increase in ONDAM – the national health insurance expenditure target – hospital, from 2.1% to 2.4%, representing an additional €300 million in 2020 and €1.5 billion over three years, as well as the recovery of a third of hospital debt. In addition, the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020 provided for an agreement on the multiannual evolution of the resources of the institutions, which, in particular, makes it possible to secure the continuous increase in hospital fees until 2022. Of course, I welcome all these necessary measures. But the crisis of the covid-19 has only accelerated the awareness of all: our hospital and its agents suffer. The answer to this suffering cannot only be budgetary. Of course, we need means to reform the hospital, but we also need consideration; optimal career management; upgrading of career paths; soothing working conditions; flexible and adaptable care organizations; strengthening the attractiveness of paramedical careers; a tariff reform with a 50% reduction in the TAA – activity pricing – to strengthen quality financing, more respectful of the work of caregivers and less rooted in the need to multiply actions to generate revenue; and so many other proposals that will have to emerge from the ongoing consultations. In this regard, the Ségur de la santé is very much expected by professionals, as it contains the seeds of a promise of attentive listening and of intensive consultation to draw collectively the lessons of the past test and to make the link with the plan "my health 2022". It is a hope that we cannot disappoint. We owe it to those whom some have described as heroes, but who prefer to qualify themselves as professionals. This major health crisis poses a multitude of questions that we will have to take the time to resolve after – after, like a promise of something else, of another way of thinking the world. Among many questions, one is essential to the way we think about our health care system, particularly our hospital. Prior to the epidemic, in opinion polls, health was already one of the most important concerns of the French, even though none of the thirty-five questions put to them by the Head of State in his letter published on January 13, 2019 addressed the subject. None of the four main themes set by the Government to frame the major debate explicitly mentioned it. And yet, from public meetings to public meetings, the issue of fair access to the health system has emerged in recent months as a major concern of the French. Coronavirus and its consequences have only dramatically confirmed the following: the French health care system struggles to ensure that patients are received in all places. It is so fragile that accompanying measures alone will not suffice. It is now necessary to rethink completely a system that, despite the immense quality of professionals, is out of breath – as part of a long-term global plan. To that end, we must restore the confidence of the French – of all the French, patients and professionals, which can only be done in consensus. In order to achieve this, a broad and pluralistic consultation must be organised. In a very fair forum, Frédéric Valletoux, president of the FHF – Fondation hôpitalière de France – proposed that a national consensus conference be organized, based on the model of the Convention citoyenne pour le climat, to build together the future of our health system. I fully support this proposal which I am making, and which is more relevant than ever. President Emmanuel Macron announced in Mulhouse a massive investment plan and the upgrading of all careers. The response must be profound and long-lasting. Indeed, we must rethink the hospital, not only under the prism of the means to be given to it, but by considering it as a link in our health system. Interactions between all health actors will need to be strengthened, but also rethought. Everyone's role will need to be clarified, which will necessarily lead to major changes in practice, but also in our care consumer habits. We will also need to reassess our relationship to risk, anticipation and the precautionary principle. It is now urgent to act with all the French. We all have our say on the ills of our health system. Consultations should be national, but also local, in order to identify the needs of the territories as finely as possible. Incorporating all citizens into thinking about a major problem, on which all French people have concerns or questions, will make it possible to imagine a solution adapted to each territory. Health is too serious a subject to be left to professionals alone and the legitimacy of the French word is undeniable. Let us start this debate, open a national dialogue to give the French the floor and to make our democracy live, to build together, in the aftermath of a crisis that will mark history, a new health system, modern, effective, responsive, respectful of the men and women who do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u151	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u152	Let's bet on collective intelligence, and act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u153	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u154	On April 30, 2019, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left tabled a first bill. After a tour of hospitals in France started in January 2018, we indicated that the great national debate, which we came out of at the time, had deliberately ruled out health, yet at the head of the concerns of the French, and caused the 1700 strike movements recorded on that date since 2017 – here to save a hospital structure, there to oppose the reductions of staff. In 2019, again, you chose a budget extending the asphyxiation of hospitals: you had asked them 960 million euros of savings in 2018, they are expected to reach 910 million in 2019. In a week of control identical to this one, my colleague Alain Bruneel asked the Minister of Health in these terms: "Restructuring and wild concentrations see THGs – hospital groups of territory – mastodones alongside medical deserts. Employees are exhausted [and] savings plans continue while there is already a severe shortage of staff, beds and equipment. This puts both caregivers and patients at risk. » To this bill, to the control of government action, to the multiple questions and questions in the Chamber, your answer and that of the majority was: circulate, there is nothing to see! Or rather if: the plan "my health 2022", presented in September 2018, which did not provide for new funding and, worse yet, continued the transformation of general hospitals into empty shells, without maternity, without surgical activity and without emergencies. So, on October 16, 2019, we tabled a bill containing forty-three measures that, without I quote it exhaustively, should resonate in your ears. Article 1 provided for the phasing-out, in two years, of the reduction of employers' health insurance contributions in order to release EUR 22 billion for the hospital. Article 4 proposed the exemption of public health institutions and public EHPADs from the wage tax, to redeploy an additional EUR 4 billion. Article 7 established a moratorium on the closure of hospital beds and services. Article 10 defined the community hospital as a compulsory facility for emergency medicine, surgery and obstetrics. Section 24 introduced regulated rates for EHPAD accommodation. Section 25 provided for a management ratio of six officers per ten EHPAD residents. Article 34 launched a public programme for the production and distribution of essential medicinal products affected by supply disruptions and marketing interruptions. Article 38 redefined psychiatry as a medical discipline in its own right. These few articles, among the forty-three of the text, cried out once again for urgency, as the contributions of our colleagues from France and the Socialist Group shouted. And nothing, nothing! Until at the heart of the crisis, on May 15, at Pitié-Salpêtrière, President Macron acknowledged, "an error in strategy." This evening, if we stick to the definition of the word strategy, we therefore control a mistake, a political mistake. Yet you continue to maneuver against the opposition, against the communist group in particular, and to gag him in the exercise of his right to set up a commission of inquiry aimed at identifying dysfunctions in the health management of the crisis of the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u155	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u156	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Well, we're telling you: the opposition is tired of controlling the wind, especially your bad wind. What are the elements we need? We told you, and we told the Minister of Health this afternoon: What elements of negotiation are available to Mrs. Notat, the Countess of Ségur, for the Ségur of Health? That is what we want to discuss, that is what we want to control, with the employees and with the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u158	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u159	Rhumatologist, head of department, then head of pole at the hospital in Orléans from 2005 to 2017, I was able to live and undergo successive hospital policies: that of President Sarkozy who, in 2007, promised that at the end of his term, there would be no public health institution in deficit, then advocating hospital-business, 100% activity pricing, structural economies. More than ten years later, it must be noted that the record is far removed from the promises. Then, with the hospital teams, I suffered the policy of President Hollande, who certainly changed the words, but failed to change the reality, preventing the necessary investments. In 2016, Marisol Touraine, then Minister of Health, acknowledged this and said: "I know that the hospital deficit is growing a little. I know the difficulty of respecting an ONDAM which, although it is progressing, has never made so little progress. » We have thus inherited more than ten years of binding policies, which have transformed the management of hospitals, the working conditions of health professionals and prevented the necessary investments. Since 2017, to meet the need for software change in our health care system, we have defended strong measures, to restore meaning, to work towards a better articulation between city medicine and the hospital sector, and to promote responses adapted to each territory. It is, for example, around the territorial professional health communities – CPTS – that we effectively reorganize the link between the city and the hospital. During the crisis, we were able to observe that in the territories where these structures were best established, patient follow-up and care was facilitated. Building on the collective, on the initiative of the professionals, on the dialogue and the assets of our territories is the choice of the majority and the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u160	Well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u161	Today it seems that the crisis, the actors in the field and the patients validate this choice. And while tonight the words "austerity" and "breaks" from the hospital resonate in the Chamber, I wonder: where has this austerity been since 2017? Where is austerity, when we know that we voted here in November to increase the hospital's budget by EUR 1.5 billion? Where is austerity in the increase in hospital fees in 2019, which is a first in ten years? Where is austerity when we are planning a €750 million emergency plan? The crisis obviously requires us to do more, to go faster, to be reactive, but let us not let voices shout that we are watching the hospital collapse without doing anything. It would be a denial of our efforts, our commitments and our values, and I will see only a parliamentary amnesia. An ideological rupture followed by concrete facts: this is the ambition we have had since 2017. The President of the Republic himself recalled it in his address to the French on 12 March. He then stated that health has no price and that it is goods and services that must be placed outside the law of the market. As you know, the vast Segur de la Santé project opened on 26 May. It brings together all actors to move quickly and together towards the upgrading of trades, the financing of care, the simplification of organisations and territorial cooperation. This project will enable us, as we wish, to remove the taboos that are far too buried in our health care system. The Ségur is charged with promises and ambitions: while the increase in remuneration is of course one of the crucial issues, these weeks of consultation are also an opportunity to create a new environment, so that confidence in the actors of care is strengthened. The players in the health system do not need new constraints, new rules or new forms, but freedom, to be autonomous in the organisation of services, to innovate; They need freedom to treat, simply. This freedom, I am convinced, will enable health actors to regain meaning in the exercise of their profession and to rebuild the trust that is now being undermined.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u162	Freedom without means...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u163	Madam Secretary of State, can you confirm that you are committed to restoring freedom to actors and flexibility to finance, and to achieving the expected simplification shock today? Ladies and gentlemen, the paradigm shift that is taking place thanks to the Ségur de la santé will allow us to learn the lessons of the crisis and to put our health system back in the place it deserves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u164	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u165	To talk about the hospital in France, I risked comparing the share of gross domestic product – GDP – devoted to health in France and Germany. Each of the two countries spends 11.5 per cent of its GDP on health, but behind this same data there is a difference in size: hospital spending is 3.2 per cent in Germany, compared with 4.3 per cent in France, or 1.1 per cent more. Despite this, doctors, nurses and caregivers are better paid in Germany than in France. How do you explain these disparities? Is our regional organization adapted? Madam Secretary of State, it has been a long time since the public hospital in our country was ill. If the causes are multiple, the health crisis that our country is experiencing has inevitably brought to light all the problems encountered in our territories. For example, on behalf of the Republican Group, I would like to pay tribute to the courage, commitment and professionalism of our caregivers, whether in the hospital, at home or in EHPAD. (Applause from the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Caroline Fiat also applauds.) The applause fed every night, everywhere in France, attested to our gratitude, but the French hospital system was at the limit of the rupture. The organ point was, and will remain, the need to transfer patients in resuscitation throughout France, whether by plane, train or road, because it is a demonstration of the inability of our system to absorb a major health crisis. In addition, physicians, and more generally health care teams, have sometimes had to make choices related to the age or history of patients, or even cross these two criteria. However, it is not in the ethics of doctors, who learn from the beginning of their course to always save a sick person. Making such decisions has been a real trauma for them, because ethics is not a science that teaches itself, but a personal questioning: selecting the sick to affect a bed of resuscitation is a painful choice. Today, the challenge of our health care system lies not only in improving the remuneration of the entire health care system – even if it seems necessary – but also in the obligation to reconsider the territorial grid, in order to put an end to the medical deserts. The Haut-Jura, with the succession of service closures orchestrated at the hospital of Saint-Claude, is a clear example of this. It is now necessary to deal with territorial inequalities, both in terms of equipment and human resources, in order to form a balanced network of hospitals present in all territories, and not only in the big cities. It would not be a matter of comforting the CHUs, but, at the same time, of closing the community services. The majority has accelerated this process...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u166	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u167	... and the result is worrying: we have come close to the disaster. In anticipation of a large number of infected patients, everywhere, in each department, the prefects have for example considered, in connection with the presidents of departments and the departmental fire and rescue services – SDIS – requisitions of rooms – sometimes even festive halls! – to turn them into country hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u168	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u169	What an image and indecency in this approach! Madam Secretary of State, our country must have a hospital service that guarantees quality and proximity care to the whole population, without excluding the most vulnerable or the most vulnerable. After the health crisis, it is time to learn all the lessons. I have identified three priorities: the first is to ensure the presence of local hospitals throughout the territory; The second is to provide for a sufficient number of resuscitation beds per department, not by region. For example, we have seen that in a rural department of 260,000 inhabitants, only twelve resuscitation beds could be mobilised: such a figure, you will agree, is derisory in times of pandemic. The third priority is to ensure the independence of our pharmaceutical industry, because today we are facing a stock shortage of anaesthetic products, forcing our caregivers to further delay urgent and serious interventions, which had already been deprogrammed because of the coronavirus. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, will you be at the meeting to meet this challenge and work on these three priorities, so that our hospital can stay on course in a future storm?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u170	Mr Philippe Berta has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u171	First of all, I would like to congratulate our hospitals, which have held the shock and are still doing great work today. During the health crisis, we were able to measure the resilience of our health care system and the commitment of our healthcare professionals: I would like to say thank you and congratulations. Paul-Valéry wrote: "Man does not know enough about man so as not to resort to expedients." According to him, this is how "raw, vain and desperate solutions would be proposed or imposed on the human race". I would not dare to say that our colleagues in France are unaware of the human being, because I know that is not true, but they often give us reasons to ask ourselves about their use of expedients, particularly in terms of economics. The word "austerity" is terrifying...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u172	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u173	... and unrelated to the reality that we live in France. Of course, my point is not to say that everything is best and that nothing is to be called into question in the organization of our health system, far from it. But I don't know many countries that, like France spend more than 200 billion euros each year on their health spending – more than 12% of French GDP – one third of this amount is directly spent on public hospitals. This level of financing of health expenditure makes France the country of the European Union which, together with Germany, devotes the highest share of GDP to health. It is well above the European average of 9.8%. The heart of the subject is therefore not only the budget that we allocate to the health system and to the public hospital; It's also the way we use it. In this way, we can ask ourselves about the ratio of caregivers to administrative staff in our hospitals, and the level of wages paid. This second problem came out with vigour during the health crisis, which sheds a sharp light on our difficulties. However, we do not discover them today: it is precisely to answer them that in September 2018, the President of the Republic launched the "My Health 2022" strategy, which proposes an overall vision and global responses to the challenges facing the French health care system. In particular, the aim is to promote better organisation and smooth cooperation between the hospital and city medicine, but also to give doctors time to treat, building on the new role of medical assistant. Finally, it is a question of making the quality and relevance of care, the red thread of transformation. The hospital offer is organised around two pillars. On the one hand, as has just been pointed out, community hospitals to provide day-to-day care. The ageing of the population and the increase in chronic diseases make these hospitals more indispensable than ever before. On the other hand, hospitals focused on their primary mission of very technical care, requiring adapted and state-of-the-art equipment. Beyond this national strategy, a better organization of our health system also depends on better consideration of prevention, which remains the poor parent. Thus, the first priority of the National Health Strategy 2018-2022 is to pay more attention to health promotion policy and prevention policy at all ages of life, and for all population groups. It is also clear that the end of the participation of general medicine in night and weekend guards and in small emergencies – activities that have never been sufficiently recognized to them – will never have been anticipated, which has contributed to the disruption of emergencies. Since we are talking about the organisation of the hospital and you know my long-standing commitment to health research, I will allow myself, before concluding, a slight digression on the continuum between research and care, embodied by the CHU – university hospital centre – and its importance in our territories. The crisis of covid-19 has shown us, if needed, the importance of health innovation, which must be carried to the bed of the patient. It has also shown that there is an urgent need to strengthen the territorial coordination of research between universities, health institutions, liberal health professionals, public scientific and technological institutions, and other research organisations. The CHU, which is often the largest local operator, would thus have all the legitimacy to be at the heart of this coordination. For example, this would have allowed for the rapid identification of the diagnostic tools of the PCR type – polymerase chain reaction – of which so much has been said, present in a given territory, but also to share know-how or technological platforms. This is one of the issues that should be discussed in the next multi-year research programming law. You will understand, there is no more damage to the public hospital than austerity. On the contrary, there is a desire to better organize and reorganize our care system to provide professionals in our hospitals with the best possible conditions of exercise, and to allow our patients to benefit from the care they need.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u174	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u175	At the initiative of the group La France insoumé, this week we are debating the austerity policy in health and its disastrous consequences for the public hospital. France has been pursuing a health austerity policy for three decades now. This began in the 1990s under Alain Juppé's government, with the creation of ONDAM. At the time, the Government had decided, by order, to set a ceiling on health expenditure, which, as we know, is defined annually in the Social Security Financing Act. The objective, clearly assumed by the Juppé government, was to reduce the French hospital park by 100,000 beds, or almost one third of its capacity. As a first step, it was therefore the smallest health facilities that closed down, leaving the remote territories and indeed increasing medical desertification. As such, between 2003 and 2016, more than 600,000 full-time hospital places disappeared, almost half of them in medicine and surgery. Since then, governments have succeeded each other, the expenditure ceiling of ONDAM has become increasingly coercive. At the same time, the French population is growing and aging, increasing the number of fragile people. This austerity policy continued in 2007 during Jacques Chirac's second term. His Minister of Health Jean-François Mattei presented in 2004 a health reform within the framework of the Hospital 2007 plan which introduced fee-for-service, responsible for the commercial logic at work in the health sector in France. Once again implemented through the use of ordinances, this reform changes the way hospitals are financed. The latter receive a budget according to the number of acts carried out there. Each act has a particular fee. The more there are, the more the budget increases. Thus, the concepts of public service, assistance to the population and support to the territories are used. This reform, which has favoured technical and quantifiable acts, has had the effect of abandoning the work of monitoring, accompanying and exchanging with patients. Hospitals and caregivers have therefore been subjected to more pressure and a policy of disastrous profitability. It was also with the Hospital Plan 2007 that Jean-François Mattei pushed hospitals to get into debt in order to modernize and renew their equipment, expenses certainly necessary but made possible by borrowing on the financial markets. However, with the economic crisis of 2008-2009, these loans have often proved toxic and have seriously deteriorated the financial situation of our public hospitals. Between 2002 and 2012, the latter's debt increased threefold in France. In 2009, under Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency, health minister Roselyne Bachelot passed a new health law that strengthened hospital centralization. The same approach was adopted by Minister Marisol Touraine in 2016, so that the reduction in the number of beds and the closure of hospital services were encouraged to reduce hospital debt. This is a serious mistake that is still being paid at the hospital today, even if the previous quinquennium has at least had the merit of restoring social accounts and rehabilitating social security finances. Since 2017, this austerity policy has been reinforced by ONDAMs too low for every PLFSS vote, a bill to finance social security, while the economic recovery would have allowed another policy for the hospital. Similarly, the Ma santé 2022 law has strengthened hospital centralization, the closure of rural hospitals and services in various so-called "neighbourly" hospitals – I am thinking in particular of geriatrics, while the elderly are the main victims of the covid-19. In 2018, with a great deal of communication, you announced the end of the numerus clausus and a wave of new doctors for the next few years. I checked the level of the increase in medical students this year: it is similar to that of previous years. No increase in the number of doctors in perspective. Therefore, perhaps this is what best defines macroism: big ads face camera and small decisions in silence. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] In response to the emergency, hospital and EHPAD crisis over the past two years, the Government announced in the fall of 2019 a major plan for the hospital. This has resulted in insignificant and insufficient measures: no increase in wages, no reopening of beds, no recruitment. Today, while the ink of your last plan for the hospital is not yet dry, you are launching a Health Segur. No doubt he will also give birth to a mouse: still no increase in wages, no reopening of beds or new recruitment in sight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u176	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u177	The Covid-19 suddenly fell upon the world and, of course, upon our country, causing the same state of ederation as the collapse of our armies in three weeks in 1940. And these are our completely lost elites, no one knows what to do. We found the reflexes acquired during the Spanish flu epidemic which, in the aftermath of the First World War, killed almost as many people as the latter. The elders in our villages still remember this time when, already, we sneezed in his elbow, we stood three meters away, we gave up the religious service. Since then, we haven't advanced... It is especially in the last forty years that we have receded, as our democratic model, which I believe will certainly remain one of the most beautiful – we have talked about the Athenian model, which did not last long and was not perfect either, but ours was not so bad. A fierce system began after the fall of the Berlin Wall. We were then the victors, but instead of continuing our long-standing democratic quest and our slow rise into civilization, we suddenly launched an open-door operation in favour of the fiercest capitalism of all time. Therefore, and despite the protests of all the women and men of good will, Mrs Bachelot, Mrs Touraine and then the world champion of all categories, Mrs Buzyn, fell in turn on our hospitals, on our maternity homes, with the success that we all know. We no longer count the children who, at home, were born at the edge of the roads, as in the 19th century, they were born on the street, because cars do not have time to arrive at the nearest hospital centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u178	And it's the storks that pick them up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u179	I hope that this tragedy will serve as a warning. It wouldn't be pointless. Will this end as the crisis of the yellow vests, with a few hundred meetings animated throughout France by the President of the Republic in front of mayors in gala uniform or as the gruesome evening that laid Notre-Dame-de-Paris on land and which was not followed by any conclusion on the work to be carried out? I hope not, because it's getting late – and I'm not just talking about the time we're debating at the moment, Mr.President – it's getting late because people can't be treated like this anymore. We all found out we were colossals with clay feet. We have no protection. If a problem of this magnitude comes to us again, it will bring us down again. But, this time, will we get up? Finally, I would like to remind you that the emergency restructuring pact announced by the President of the Republic in September 2019, amounting to 750 million euros, has only given rise to redeployments of existing appropriations, that the recovery of hospital debt, amounting to 10 billion euros in three years, announced in November 2019, is still not on the agenda, and that the premiums are granted to caregivers – these unfortunate caregivers so applauded – depending on the hospitals in which they work: if they are lucky enough to practice in a territorial hospital, they are entitled to them, but if they work in a smaller hospital, they do not benefit. At my house in Oloron-Sainte-Marie, they all wait, but they won't get anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u180	Mr President, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u181	I'm doing everything I can, Mr. President! I wish we could re-launch the research. France is the country of basic or applied research. The expertise comes from men and women in the field: let us not force them, let us not forget them, let us not humiliate them! On this condition, France, a country where we treat well, will regain its place: the first.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u182	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u183	Mr Berta, allow me to associate myself with the thanks you have extended to all our healthcare professionals who have worked and continue to do so in managing this crisis. Mrs. Fiat, there was ammunition during the crisis. 700 million masks have been distributed to caregivers, and we must not forget that. Caregivers have demonstrated unwavering commitment. We do not deny it, we have thanked them, quite rightly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u184	Ah! We're saved!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u185	Mr Lassalle, regardless of the size of the structure, all caregivers in public hospitals will receive a premium of at least 500 euros for their participation in the management of the Covid-19 crisis. The difference is only between the institutions in the territories most affected by the epidemic and the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u186	That's not what I understood. You'll explain to them in Oloron-Sainte-Marie!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u187	As far as crisis management is concerned, we have never lied, Mrs Fiat. We have been transparent by regularly giving figures about the epidemic and also about masks. I would also like to remind you that we owe recognition to caregivers. No one thinks it's a whim. A re-evaluation of all professions is well planned by the Ségur de la santé, an historic event designed to fully recognize caregivers and re-arm our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u188	It's all big words. We're garging...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u189	The breakdown of the public hospital has never been on the agenda, no more today than yesterday. Segur will, we all hope, lead to health agreements. Nevertheless, without waiting for what will emerge from these consultations in the coming weeks, let me recall what has been done since 2017, because we love and are attached to the public hospital as a national treasure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u190	It can't be seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u191	This government has been conducting a tariff campaign in complete break with a cycle of tariff cuts that has been going on for more than ten years: where is the breakdown of the public hospital? The Government has fully thawed the funds put in reserve in 2018 and 2019: where is the breakdown of the public hospital? The Government has made unprecedented commitments on pluriannuality to finally restore visibility to hospitals: where is the breakdown of the public hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u192	All this is worthless!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u193	Mr Aviragnet, the clean-up of social accounts during the previous quinquennium was done at the expense of the hospital. The social security deficit was reduced while the hospital deficit was growing. We've been straightening up the hospital for over three years. In this regard, I would like to thank Ms. Rist, who recalled the measures taken by the Government in support of our health system...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u194	12 billion savings!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u195	... measures that you have greatly enriched by your work, since Parliament has passed a law on the organization and transformation of the health system to reduce social and territorial inequalities in access to care and to promote in an unprecedented way the coordinated exercise, with a better articulation between hospital and city medicine. Today, this Government is working with all those who make our health system live to build a new deal together, to recognize our caregivers in what they are and in what they are doing. That is what we have achieved and what has guided us to this day. I don't know if we can be proud of it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u196	Not so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u197	...but I know we don't have to blush. Moreover, I had the curiosity to consult what the programme of La France insoumée, L'Avenir en commun, proposed in the field of health. Your first proposal concerns the priority given to prevention. We have just embarked on a small cultural revolution with a focus on prevention, from early childhood to the strategy of prevention of self-reliance for our seniors. Your programme rightly mentions the need for increased prevention against the risks of alcohol and tobacco.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u198	You refused it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u199	To give only one figure, we now have 1.6 million fewer daily smokers than in 2017. It is a rapid decline in the number of smokers that reflects the joint effectiveness of health and tax policies in this area. In your program, you call for 100% health insurance coverage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u200	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u201	We have designed the 100% health system and complementary health care in solidarity to remove financial barriers to access to care, a central issue in public health and also in social policy – for example, we know how much the lack of dental care can be considered as a social stigma. Your programme also foresees that "a progressive and comprehensive reform of the provision of care is necessary to effectively address the challenge of chronic diseases by integrating the different compartments of the now divided care provision so that cooperation replaces competition".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u202	It's a great program, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u203	The plan "my health 2022" is entirely based on the requirement of a coordinated exercise of medical practices and a better articulation between hospital and city medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u204	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u205	Decompartmentalization is the cornerstone of the law on the organization and transformation of the health system that has been passed in Parliament. I could keep ginning the measures of your program, The Common Future,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u206	Go ahead, it's a great program!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u207	... but one thing strikes me: beyond our very real differences on many subjects, we have common ambitions on health, even if there are nuances. For two weeks now, we have been discussing with all health stakeholders the methodology, timing and main objectives. We work with all...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u208	They're not all here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u209	...a better development of careers and trades, the development of new career paths in hospitals and EHPADs. We want to boost investment and new funding models, make our health care system more flexible and simpler. As for the question that you are asking, honourable Member, about the number of beds in resuscitation, it will be dealt with within the framework of the Ségur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u210	I hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u211	It is also a question of setting up organisations closer to the territories and involving in a more collective way the hospital, the city medicine and the medical-social sector, not to mention the local hospitals on which I would certainly have to answer your questions. We have put in place national consultations, sessions to share experiences within the health territories. An expression space dedicated to healthcare professionals has been online since yesterday. Finally, you're asking me about the calendar. In mid-July, we will draw the conclusions of these consultations with professionals on the health crisis, in order to provide tailored responses to needs and expectations, and to build a stronger, more resilient system that takes better care of those who take care of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u212	In the meantime, you leave them in garbage bags. It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u213	We come to the questions. I would remind you that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u214	France applauded them; Now you have to hear them. For more than a year and a half, the nursing and non-custodial staff at the hospital have alerted you by every means, by strike and demonstration. The diagnosis is clear: our health care system and the public hospital – probably our most valuable asset, admired around the world – are breathless. It's not the fruit of chance. For decades, they have been undergoing the policy of liberalisation and privatisation which has gradually transformed the online beds of Excel files, patients in time, care into quantified and valued acts and, ultimately, the hospital into a banal enterprise. So it took a pandemic and an unprecedented health crisis for you to finally claim to give them the attention they want instead of the baton blows or tear gas that they have experienced. But be warned: attention will not be enough, you are expected at the turn. No more health plans pretending to inject money while they only weaken the savings required. Less savings, it remains savings. However, savings on health and hospital beds are now too well known: 69000 beds less in 15 years, during which time the European Commission required Member States to make savings in the health sector. During this health crisis, hospital staff will have been exemplary in their ability to adapt and self-organize. Humans manage the hospital better than calculators. I said that France applauded them and you must hear them. In fact, it's much more than that. You must act on their claims and translate them into law. This must be the outcome of your new pass trick called Ségur de la santé because there is no need to repeat the diagnosis: it is established. Are you going, yes or no, to raise wages? Will you, yes or no, hire to relieve staff? Are you going, yes or no, to end the policy of closing beds permanently? Are you going, yes or no, to significantly increase the next health budget? [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] I call on all the French who applauded the health workers every night at 8:00 p.m. in their window, to go down to the street next Tuesday, June 16, to accompany them. The time has come for you to finally give in.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u215	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u216	I spoke at the moment about common ambitions. The project is extensive and we have organised the work according to various axes that I will recall: better value all careers and all the professions; develop new career paths in hospitals and EHPADs. As the minister has said quite frankly, this will involve an increase in hospital and EHPAD salaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u217	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u218	This will also involve questioning certain carcans that prevent those who wish to work more or differently, without questioning the statutes. This will require a better appreciation of team work, hence acquired skills and missions. We will work towards a revival of investment and new financing models. The recovery of one third of hospital debt represents an effort of EUR 13 billion for the nation, which will allow to reinvest, rebuild, reopen and modernise. We will also discuss a new investment plan for health facilities and EHPADs. Finally, we want to make our system more flexible and simpler. The norm for the norm, the bureaucracy for the bureaucracy don't make sense. Everything will have to be reviewed in particular in the light of the lessons of the crisis of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u219	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u220	There is so much to say about the hospital, its needs and its budget, that even the seven weeks planned for the Ségur de la santé will not be enough. I would like to address the urgency of recruitment, the nonsense of replacing people with digital technology, the need to combat waste, the inevitable reorganization, the hyper-feminization of health professions and its wage consequences, etc. But I only have two minutes. To illustrate the fact that it is essential to think of the public hospital as a whole, I will take an example of the number of beds in resuscitation. Between March and May, our capacity increased from 5000 to 12,000 beds in resuscitation. Therefore, calls for additional resuscitation bed openings are perfectly understandable. They are in some perfectly justified areas, less in others where, even in times of health crisis, beds have remained unoccupied for some time in the private sector, due to lack of consultation and administrative overload leading to costly patient transfers. On the other hand, ephemeral resuscitation services, quickly operational and showing enormous elasticity, have been put in place everywhere. All caregivers have been able to adapt everywhere to this exceptional situation, despite the lack of equipment, medicines, personnel and soon sleep – a bit like us right now, except that they had no choice. I see everyone listens to me because I'm talking about all of you and nobody reacts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u221	Of course we do, we're listening to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u222	Caregivers have shown in the field that more flexible and adaptable premises allow for rapid expansion of reception capacity. Each institution can develop a plan to scale up this critical care while building on a territorial network capable of distributing medical and health-care resources and skills in a harmonious manner, as solutions cannot be imposed vertically. It will be essential to hire caregivers and pay them at their fair value. There is a need for a fine approach to the reorganization and decision-making process: to reduce the costs of the public hospital while strengthening its functioning, more versatile caregivers are needed through more adequate training, more relevant and more targeted care. Above all, we must listen to the proposals made by caregivers, trust them, not just in times of crisis. This is what the group Ecology Democracy Solidarity proposes: to treat our hospital sick and – why not? – heal him. Will you follow us, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u223	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u224	First of all, I would like to thank you for all the proposals you have made. The modalities of consultation must allow us to gather all the ideas that will help us learn from the epidemic we have been through and to give new perspectives to our system. From the lines of action that you draw, I retain these: the valorisation of the skills and the commitment of our professionals; the development of skills and new career opportunities, particularly for paramedics and nurses; the need to simplify the operation of the hospital. All of these proposals will be discussed within the framework of the Health Segur. You also talk about critical care. A comprehensive reflection on the reception capacities in critical care services needs to take place and will take place. It will be about the reactivation of beds, the agility of critical care services, the consideration of the territorial dimension, dedicated human resources, our ability to mobilize a pool of caregivers, training, recognition and the valorization of skills. All your proposals have been submitted to the Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u225	That won't necessarily take it into account!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u226	... and to the national health ségur animation team, led by Nicole Notat. They will be fully integrated into the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u227	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u228	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u229	We are gathered this night to discuss the future of the public hospital, which gives each of us an opportunity to thank the caregivers for their unwavering commitment during the health crisis. At the beginning of the year, this crisis highlighted the need for massive investment and reorganization to transform our hospital system. Beyond the question of means and internal organisation, it also raises the question of the link between the public hospital and its environment – I am thinking in particular of the local hospital centres in rural areas. If the public hospital works well overall, it can be disconnected from its environment. We all have in mind the way in which the dramatic arrest of the deep nightguards by the general practitioners has engulfed the emergencies. For my part, I would like to talk about the relationship between the public hospital and the communities that historically have made a significant contribution to public health through their efforts in the areas of hygiene, water sanitation and prevention. Some go so far as to say that increasing life expectancy owes more to the action of communities than to the action of our health system. However, the links between the public hospital and the communities have sometimes dissipated, due in part to the transformation of boards of directors into supervisory boards. Former mayors and presidents of supervisory boards, we are a few here who have seen the limits of our action in this area. In addition, the creation of THGs has transferred a great deal of power into megastructures that can pose problems of local governance. Now everyone feels the need to give more space to the communities that have proved themselves during the crisis with the creation of covid -19 centres or even the provision of superblouses as was the case for a community of municipalities in the Monts du Lyonnais. In your opinion, Madam Secretary of State, what should be the place of the public hospital in the territories, especially in rural areas? Do you have any concrete ideas on how to better integrate the hospital into its environment and better involve local elected officials in its operation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u231	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u232	Mr. Member, your question is about a subject dear to our department. For more than three years, we have been working to improve access to care, to strengthen the place of hospitals in the territories. The reform of community hospitals, a key measure of the strategy for transforming the health system, aims to improve access to care for users throughout the country. You have been associated with the many work carried out in 2019: defining their mission and scope of activity; strengthening the link with the city; the development of their new funding model. Community hospitals provide the first level of gradation of care, and share defined missions with city professionals and local actors. The objective is to provide a structured and coordinated response to the health needs of populations. Community hospitals will benefit from a multi-year guarantee of funding that will take into account their participation in the provision of territorial care. This funding will make it possible to enhance the links with professionals working in the city, through the creation of the allocation of territorial responsibilities. Without anticipating the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé, we always carry this great ambition for local hospitals and hospitals. The fourth pillar of the Ségur de la santé, entitled "Feeding health actors in the territories at the service of users", is the subject of specific work related to governance. The territories, therefore the local authorities and the local hospital centres, have and will always have their full place in the policy we drive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u233	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u234	We all find that there is a deep malaise in health facilities, hospitals and EHPADs. We hear shouts of revolt and alert. Events have been held for more than two years. We also note that the needs and aspirations of these caregivers are not necessarily met: in 2019 alone, from September to October, four plans were put in place for caregivers, without results. Now, the Ségur de la santé is launched following the crisis of the covid-19 and the movement of solidarity with all the staff of hospitals and EHPADs, from the housekeeper to the head of the pole. Something very big and very strong has spoken. How will Segur of Health answer all these questions and aspirations? Health professionals are quite suspicious as they will demonstrate again on June 16 and organize Tuesdays of anger to raise their determination to complete their expression and mobilization until they are listened to. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] How much money do you put on the table to meet all these demands?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u235	It's not just money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u236	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u237	Mr President, we share many of your group's observations on these issues. This plan is under construction with all the actors and stakeholders of the health system as part of this great one-month consultation, the Ségur de la santé. In particular, our ambition is to collectively learn from the test we have been through and to link it to the directions of the "My Health 2022" plan. Through strong and concrete solutions, we want to build the foundations of an even more modern and resilient health system, always listening to professionals, users and territories. You are asking the question of the means and the funding needed to sustain this ambition: they are obviously planned. I would like to recall that the Ségur de la santé is guided by two main objectives: to transform the professions and to upgrade the health care staff. The aim is to define a new financing and investment policy for care. Words cannot be clearer. You will understand, however, that we do not wish to preempt the ongoing consultations and debates, which you will have the opportunity to participate in, since working sessions with parliamentarians are scheduled. They will allow debate on the different pillars of the Secur de la santé without excluding any topic. Remuneration for health professionals, career paths, careers, skills development, ways of doing business, as well as funding models, will be at the heart of the debate. How to get out of pricing to activity? What are the new financing levers for investment? As the Minister of Health is committed to it, we will share the results of the discussions on these various topics as we work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u238	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u239	Today, the world is undergoing profound changes, to which the health sector does not escape. The covid-19 pandemic has revealed the flaws of a health care system that we are all aware is to be rethought. The hospital has not only experienced an increase in its activity of more than 14 per cent in ten years, coupled with an inflation of age-related comorbidities, a large influx into emergency services and thus an intensification of work, but it has also become the site of a managerial vision and bureaucratic proliferation which, like a bed of Procuste, generate conflict situations and suffering for the healthcare staff, who feel this situation as being contrary to professional ethics. While the measures taken by the Government in the run-up to the crisis, in the framework of the law on the organization and transformation of the health system – "my health 2022" – demonstrate a real awareness of the malaise in hospitals, with the rise of ONDAM, the announced recovery of one third of the hospital debt and the shift of the funds dedicated to the investment of daily life, much remains to be done, in particular for the remediation of hospital governance, quality financing, the upgrading of careers and wages, the training and strengthening of the city-hospital link. Recognition, trust, subsidiarity, responsiveness, administrative simplification: this is also the expectation of caregivers, whose exemplary commitment to the pandemic must be emphasized. How can these challenges be met and the expectations of the world of health be met? How can we cope with the vagaries of the pandemic? How to educate the outpatient turn of medicine by orchestrating it with a necessary city-hospital interface to end "hospitalo-centrism" and so that the Segur of health does not reduce itself to a Segur of the hospital?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u240	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u241	I know, Mr Delatte, that you handed over your coat during the health crisis, like many Members of Parliament and professionals who had left the medical and paramedical sector. I thank you, personally, for having been with the caregivers during this event. The hospital will obviously have a special place in the Segur of Health. City professionals and the medico-social sector are also closely involved in the consultation, as evidenced by the presence of 300 health actors at the launch of the Ségur de la santé by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, two months to the day after Mulhouse's speech. I spare you the list of all these actors, but all the channels were represented and will continue to be represented at each meeting organised at the ministry. It must be said, it has been a long time since all the actors in health had been brought together beyond divisions and corporatisms. The Ségur de la santé opens for a month of consultation. Until the end of June, the actors in the health system, the city, the hospital and the medical and social sector, projects such as the CPTS, telemedicine, the professions of old age or the improvement of access to care will be the subject of exchanges. If we pay particular attention to health facilities, it is precisely because we want to see a stronger health system emerge. I know how to count on you in this business.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u242	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u243	Madam Secretary of State, in the context of the Ségur de la santé that you will be piloting until the presentation of the conclusions expected in mid-July, there is a major issue on which I would like to focus: the sustainability of fluid emergency services. The emergency services of our hospitals are too often saturated and emergency doctors are struggling to deal with real emergencies. Several avenues need to be explored, including the strengthening of remote support telephone platforms – I know that the Government is actively working on them. What role will the paramedical professions have to play in the future organisation of emergency services? Nearly one in five emergency patients is estimated to have a mild musculoskeletal problem. At the end of 2019, the Ministry of Health took strong first steps to reduce congestion in these services. A significant portion of the transitions to emergencies are due to the accessibility of hospital care, including in cases of painful trauma. It is easy to treat, but a doctor's prescription is required to consult a physiotherapist. Because it often takes several days to get a consultation, the people concerned spontaneously turn to emergencies to solve their problem quickly while being covered by health insurance. Are you considering further inclusion of paramedical professionals, such as advanced practice nurses or potential on-call physiotherapists, in the management of emergency services, alongside emergency doctors in hospitals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u244	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u245	You know, Madam Member, the attention we are paying to the emergency services. You are also interested in this subject, and I have no doubt that you will participate in the work on it. The French are deeply attached to emergencies, to which they rightly give great confidence. Emergency activity has increased steadily in France and elsewhere in Europe. In 2017, 21 million passes were registered in French emergency services. This increase in attendance leads, as you know, to increasing tensions in services, placing patients and caregivers in difficult situations. The Government has long shared this diagnosis with all actors: it has been at the heart of government priorities for several months. The measures of the Emergency Refoundation Pact have been in place since September 2019 and significant and positive changes have already taken place. During the health crisis related to covid-19, the emergencies held. Some professionals have innovated and initiated new organizations. I am thinking in particular of the Liberal doctors who participated in the UAS, an emergency medical aid service. The crisis invites us to look at this kind of initiative in a new light. This is precisely the ambition of the Ségur de la santé: to transform the professions, to improve those who care, to unite the actors of health in the territories, to the service of the users. Within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, whose two pillars are transforming and upgrading, we have the opportunity to go further in advanced practices, in strengthening the link between the city and the hospital, in the organisation of unscheduled care and in access to care. The Ségur de la santé is not intended to call into question the measures taken for emergencies since September 2019; It will allow us to work with professionals, including paramedical professionals, in order to do even more and even better in this field, for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u246	Mr Gilles Lurton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u247	As we debate the austerity in health and the breakdown of the public hospital, trade union and professional organisations call for a national day of mobilization to defend the public hospital. That is to say, if, just out of the health crisis linked to covid-19 and the popular support movement it has generated for caregivers, our debate is topical. At the same time, it is not new... Since 2012, together with my colleagues in the Republicans Group, we have been challenging, in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the context of the draft legislation on the financing of social security, the failure to take into account the difficulties of the public hospital and the abyssal deficits it generates. These deficiencies appeared in the open during the crisis of the covid-19. It is clear today that without the professionalism and dedication of caregivers, our health care system would likely have exploded. At a time when we were still wondering how our health care system was going to hold, the President of the Republic announced at Mulhouse, after the crisis, "a massive investment and career improvement plan" for the hospital. Two months a day to the day, on May 25, 2020, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health launched the Ségur de la santé. Today, it appears that consultation with caregivers is expected to be limited and that Ségur de la santé is already causing a lot of disappointment among caregivers and their professional organizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u248	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u249	Fifteen days after its launch, we do not have any figures. Madam Secretary of State, do you really plan to raise the salaries of health workers in public hospitals, medical and social institutions and institutions for dependent elderly people, and of all those who intervene in the patient's home, not to mention, of course, family caregivers? If so, with what financial means? How will you finance the necessary restructuring of public hospitals? What investments have you planned?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u250	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u251	Mr. Lurton, like us, you are in favour of a policy of reviving the health system, supporting the public hospital and raising the salaries of caregivers. I will not go back to the measures taken by the Government since it has been in charge; I've already quoted them. With regard to hospital support, we have changed the trend of ONDAM, which had reached very low levels during the previous quinquennium, and we have re-aligned it. In addition, we have created a number of mechanisms to support the territories in tension and the professionals at the beginning of their careers. As you pointed out: during his speech in Mulhouse, the President of the Republic made a strong commitment to the professionals involved in the management of the health crisis linked to the covid-19, which will be realized by the work of the Segur of Health. This consultation, which mobilises all the players in the sector, will allow us to know the needs, so to determine a budget envelope.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u252	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u253	Madam Secretary of State, to the various questions you are asked, you answer: Ségur de la santé! We have always called for more consultation, consultation and listening to the trade union world. However, after three social security funding bills and the passage of the "my health 2022" law, which contained the campaign promises of candidate Macron but also many bad surprises, after also the emergency plan for the public hospital in the fall of 2019, what do you expect to hear that you are not already aware of? What have not the unions, healthcare professionals and patient associations told you yet? To provide more downstream beds in the hospital, to improve the remuneration of caregivers and the attractiveness of careers, to increase the number of recruitments for better functioning hospitals, to improve home care for dependent elderly people, to provide substantial funding for dependency: all these measures are already on the table. The health crisis has only worsened a situation already harmful to the public hospital, which has witnessed two years of unprecedented mobilization in the public hospital and in the EHPADs. The issue facing the Government today is that of action after the great lyrical flights of the President of the Republic during his television intervention of 12 March 2020: "What this pandemic reveals is that it is goods and services that must be placed outside the laws of the market"; "Health has no price. The Government will mobilize all the financial resources necessary to provide assistance, to take care of the sick, to save lives at all costs. This "whatever it takes" has been heard by caregivers and all the French who support them. I am the spokesperson for Comminges and Saves and I ask you, Madam Secretary of State: how many more recruitments for the hospital in Saint-Gaudens? What pay increases are there for the caregivers of the functional rehabilitation centre of the hospitals in Luchon? How many additional downstream beds for Salies-du-Salat salt fountain hospital? These precise questions call for precise answers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u254	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u255	Caregivers tell us – almost with embarrassment, as it may seem paradoxical – that in recent weeks many of them have regained the taste of their profession, the passion of the beginnings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u256	Because there were ways!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u257	In the extreme test, they stood in front of one goal: to treat and treat well. The crisis, which has served as an acceleration and revealing factor in many areas, must also lead to speeding up the implementation of measures that affect them. This is the subject of the consultation carried out within the framework of the Ségur de la santé. It is a question of starting from the actors, the territories, the experience of the field where some dikes were able to jump, for example when we put together services that were not used to them – communities, prefecture, internal services to the ARS – to find suitable answers. Caregivers also want to be listened to. The consultation also allows them to do so and to take into account their demands for their profession and practice. I repeat, no envelope is predefined: let us first define the needs, we will then adapt the funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u258	We've known them for years, the needs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u259	Not the Government: it discovers them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u260	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u261	For three months, the caregivers were applauded by the French at 20.00 p.m. every evening. A national tribute will be paid to them on 14 July. After the symbols, hospital staff need real recognition, salary upgrading and more satisfactory working conditions. As the first epidemic wave ends, we can only welcome the responsiveness and the ability to mobilize and adapt health care workers, paramedical and administrative staff in hospitals, despite a lack of human and financial resources that I have repeatedly denounced here. They've faced it, and we'll never thank them enough. Beyond these thanks, it is more urgent than ever to break with the vision that makes the hospital a business and to put medical logic at the heart of the health system. Hospital teams have long denounced the disconnect between hospital funding and the real cost of care and the dependence of institutions on the banking system. Hospital debt, coupled with the lack of a multi-year perspective on their resources, is undermining their ability to recruit and invest. Giving them more visibility and means will improve long-term working conditions, modernise equipment and thus guarantee the quality of care. For all these reasons, the Segur of Health has raised high hopes. However, after ten days of dialogue, our daily heroes are dubious and fear a mere announcement effect following the crisis. Can you assure us that a real transformation of our health care system will begin at the end of the discussions? Will Segur of Health be enough to meet the expectations of caregivers to restore confidence in the interests of patients? Will the multi-annual financing of hospitals finally be guaranteed, as well as the adaptation of the provision of care to patients and territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u262	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u263	Your question is entirely legitimate. I will first give some examples of what we did for the public hospital. In September 2019, the "My Health 2022" plan was applied to emergencies and an ambitious pact was developed to improve the situation of these strained services. The "Invest for the Hospital" component was launched on 20 November to accelerate transformations and better accompany hospitals. Initial solutions were made to the problem of the attractiveness of the trades through the valorisation of the professions and territories in tension. Initial levers were activated: the hospital ONDAM was increased from 2.1 to 2.5%; It is planned to invest EUR 150 million per year to meet daily needs; the debt is recovering massively, to the tune of EUR 10 billion. Hospital rates are rising for the first time in ten years. Credits have been completely thawed to give some air to the public hospital, as requested by caregivers and all professionals. But we need to go further, and that's the sense of Segur of health. As you understand it, its ambitions are great: it is, as I said, to learn the lessons of the test we have passed and to link them to the orientations of "my health 2022" in order to build the foundations of an even more modern, resilient and innovative health system, always listening to caregivers, so that they are happy to come and take up their job, that they work as a team – without opposition between administration and care – and that they are recognized. With regard to multi-annual visibility, I recall the signing a few months ago of the Memorandum of Understanding on the multiannual evolution of hospital charges. As for the upgrading and attractiveness of trades, they will be at the heart of the Ségur de la santé.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u264	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u265	Over the past 20 years, 95 hospitals have been closed and 69000 beds have been abolished. The health policy adopted by successive governments – yours is no exception, Madam Secretary of State – based on the tense flow model, profitability and relocation – has broken down on the wall of reality. Implementation of the 35 hours, fee-for-service, accounting management of hospitals, discreet but real capture of the offer of care for the benefit of large groups: for all these years, we have been locked up, to the detriment of patients, in an accounting approach to health. At the heart of the successive reforms, instead of the quality of care and the care of the patient: the cost of the system and the care of the various services. At the same time, administrative inflation and galloping bureaucracy have diverted doctors from their primary mission. There are no fewer than 30 national health bodies. Among them, the SRAs have become real states in the state where there can be copinage and profusion of delusional norms. The results of their management of the covid-19 epidemic are summarized in two words: impreparation and amateurism. And what about the reception in the emergency rooms of our hospitals, where staff sometimes get insulted or even assaulted, where you sometimes have to wait a whole day to be seen by a doctor, before you end up spending three days on a stretcher in a hallway? What are you doing for our city doctors, who disappear from it after they have already deserted the countryside? You were not even able to provide them with masks to allow them to protect themselves properly! When will you break with this infernal spiral of health commodification to revive the excellence of French medicine, which the whole world envied us? When will you give doctors the means to accomplish their mission calmly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u266	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u267	You are right, MP, and it is the findings you make that have led us to take the steps we have been implementing since 2017 for the hospital. The ill-being has grown there in recent years. Indeed, speeches, laws, accounting logics have been able to tire and discourage. The care professions respond to a vocation and require difficult and long-term training. Caregivers face illness, disability and death. They can chain days and nights, endure stress, and yet they must always live up to the threefold commitment of providing physical, psychological and social comfort to the sick. When they talk of meaning loss, when they denounce a regression of what constitutes their priority and should therefore be ours – care, benevolence, well-being – it must make us react. Hence the ambition of "my health 2022", which the Segur of Health prolongs. You mentioned the removal of beds; Let me add that 25,000 places have been created in our hospitals: no government has done so for more than ten years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u268	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-09-O1231.u269	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Debate on the information report of the Committee on Finance on the spring of the evaluation; Discussion of the 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
