ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u1	The next item is the 2021 public finance policy debate. The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u2	I am very pleased to meet you with Olivier Dussopt, Deputy Minister for Public Accounts, for this public finance policy debate for 2021. This morning we will discuss the broad guidelines for our public finances, in an entirely new economic context. Indeed, the economic crisis we face has had no equivalent in France since the Great Recession of 1929. Moreover, the international situation remains extremely fragile; The Coronavirus epidemic has intensified in some countries, particularly in Israel and the United States. The context is also new because the future is more uncertain than ever. Many of the figures we will be discussing today depend on the possibility of a resumption of the epidemic in France in the autumn, even if we take all the steps on the health front to avoid such a situation and rely on the sense of responsibility of our compatriots. It is about our health security for all, as well as the economic situation and jobs in our country. This uncertainty must lead us to examine with great caution the figures that I am presenting to you this morning. The key words of this public finance policy debate will therefore be "will" and "prudence" for me. We have the will to overcome the crisis and to provide answers, as we do with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, to all companies and employees who are worried about their jobs. We also have the will to hold our public finances accountable despite the circumstances. But we also need to be cautious about an economic situation that remains unpredictable and unstable. As you know, we assessed the recession for 2020 at 11%. For several weeks, we have been recording positive indicators that reflect the effectiveness of the measures we have put in place since the beginning of March. The National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, INSEE, is seeing this morning in its business surveys a sharp rebound in economic activity in all sectors. We welcome this and see it as evidence of the effectiveness of the measures we have implemented. Consumption recovered very quickly. In the automotive sector, for example, sales of vehicles are higher in June 2020 than they were in June 2019, thanks to the introduction of the conversion premium and massive support for electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles. The business climate in the industry is also improving. After dropping by 30 points in April, the INSEE indicator continues to rise in July. These good results are satisfactory; However, they remain too fragile for us to revise our growth forecasts for the time being. However, I would like to express my determination to continue with the same will, commitment and tenacity the implementation of measures that will enable us to improve the situation and reduce the scale of the recession by 2020. It is not tomorrow that we have to fight, it is now, as we have been doing since the first day. I am not resembling an 11 per cent recession: I think that if we speed up the implementation of the measures we have already decided and ensure that they are properly implemented, we will be able to reach a more favourable figure by 2020. We have already committed EUR 460 billion to cushion the shock on the economy, in the three amending finance bills tabled since the beginning of the crisis in March. In the one we are currently looking at, we are committing almost EUR 45 billion of budgetary expenditure to support the sectors most affected by the crisis, of which you know, in the field, companies or businesses: hotels, catering, the event sector, culture, aeronautics and all its subcontractors, the automotive industry, tech, trade in general and local trade. All these sectors have received massive support and assistance from the Government. We have decided on additional measures which also aim, by 2020, to improve the situation and to reduce the size of the recession, now estimated at 11%. Tax measures, such as the carry-back of the business deficit – the carry-back – to the tune of 400 million euros, effective from 2020, must give companies a breath of air and enable them to achieve better results. The measures for young people, which amount to several billion euros and will be specified next week, must enable every young person in our country to find a place on the labour market at the beginning of September. The €100 increase in the school start-up allowance, which represents a budget expenditure of €500 million, aims to support demand and enable us to achieve a recession rate of less than 11% by 2020 – a figure that we maintain while fighting it. For the year 2021, in the preparatory report for this public finance policy debate, we expect an increase of 8%. This forecast should be taken with even greater caution. The uncertainties, already considerable by the end of 2020, are total for the year 2021, especially since the rebound in expected growth in 2021 will depend on the actual size of the recession in 2020. Growth for 2021 is therefore very difficult to assess. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] Faced with this uncertainty regarding the figures, we must have one single economic objective: to regain a level of national wealth equivalent to the level of pre-crisis, that is to say, that of 2019, by 2022. This is in fact the main, beyond the figures of the recession or the rebound of 2021. For our compatriots, for our prosperity, for France's place in Europe and for its economic power in the world, the essential thing is to narrow the gap of wealth between post-crisis and pre-crisis France as quickly as possible. The essential thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to fight against the French economic downgrading. It is our objective, and it is on this criterion that we want and must be judged. Today, the gap between pre-crisis and post-crisis France is estimated at 4 points of national wealth. This is a considerable figure, behind which there is the risk of the decommissioning of France, of the loss of prosperity for millions of French and of a lag in relation to our great German neighbour. We will therefore fight this figure, this indication that I give you, and do everything possible, through the recovery plan, to reduce the wealth gap and set us as the objective that France will emerge strengthened from the economic crisis – that it will transform, with a more efficient, more competitive economic model, oriented towards the future and committed to the decarbonization of our industry and our economic activities. My goal is that by 2022 we will be able to regain a level of economic growth and national wealth comparable to that of the pre-crisis period. To achieve this goal, we have already multiplied decisions, measures and support. We avoided a French economic collapse by taking the necessary measures quickly and, admittedly, by sometimes abandoning in the river of this crisis a number of habits and ideologies, aiming only at efficiency, support for our businesses and the defence of our jobs. We had to put a lot of political commitment and a lot of public money. We have put both to save our businesses and to defend employment. We will continue to implement a EUR 100 billion recovery plan, which I will mention at the Council of Ministers on 24 August. This plan will aim to accelerate the transformation of our economic model and strengthen French supply. This is how we will return to the level of wealth we had in 2019 by 2022. It is certainly not by committing all-round public spending, without any consideration for the economic model and without strategic choice, that we will achieve this. It is by making the decisive choice of an improvement in French supply and products, by developing innovation and investment, by making France the leader of new technologies in hydrogen, quantum computing or aeronautics that we will succeed in winning this battle of French prosperity and the level of development of France. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] As you know a few days ago, this recovery plan will be able to benefit from the support of the European Union. The President of the Republic obtained the sum of EUR 40 billion in the framework of the recovery plan adopted in Brussels a few days ago, which marks a national, Franco-German and European success which we welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u3	We'll have to talk about the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u4	This recovery plan has one method: consultation. I have had the opportunity to meet with a number of you and we will continue the consultations over the next few days. Yesterday I received all the social partners to discuss with them the main guidelines of the plan. We will ensure that all the proposals made to us are well reflected in it. This plan also has a priority: employment, especially for young people. It has one imperative: the decarbonization of our economy and its transformation into a less CO-emitting economy, more resource-efficient and more competitive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u5	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u6	This plan will also have a rule, which I would like to make clear to the representatives of the French people: the expenses incurred in the recovery plan must contribute to the recovery – in other words, they must be quick, targeted and green. We do not want to be included in the expenditure recovery plan that will only have effect in 2023, 2024 or 2025. Recovery is now. We want these expenses to allow every Frenchman to see that something is happening in his daily life, in his commune, and that they speed up the economic recovery of our country. We also want them to contribute to the acceleration of the decarbonisation of the French economy: we do not want to give in to the ease of feeding the old model with the credits of tomorrow. On the contrary, we want the appropriations we are currently deciding to serve the transformation of tomorrow's economy. The expenditure of the recovery plan will be isolated in a specific budgetary mission, in the same way as we have isolated the debt linked to the crisis of the covid-19. This cantonment of the debt allows us, in full transparency, to amortize it in time; The expenditure of the recovery plan will also be limited. This choice was made with Olivier Dussopt in the name of the concern for sincerity and transparency that guides the majority since the beginning of the quinquennium. To avoid any drift in public finances, it is sound to separate the expenditures that will fund the stimulus plan from the usual spending, which must fund ministries and public action. Compared to the initial finance law for 2020, the appropriations for the tasks of the State budget, separate from the recovery plan, will increase by €7 billion. This increase seems reasonable to us in view of the usual annual developments and the current situation in France. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] We have also taken the decision to control the development of public employment by aiming at stabilising public job creation. Of course, there will be increases in numbers in priority areas such as police, justice and, of course, health, which have contributed particularly to the public good in recent weeks. But there will also be reductions in the number of people in sectors where this is possible. The Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery will thus participate in the effort to reduce public employment. Overall, we want to stabilize the size of the state in 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] These are some general elements that I wanted to introduce to you. I reiterate the determination of the Government and the Prime Minister, under the authority of the President of the Republic, to revive our economy as quickly as possible and to regain in 2022 the level of national wealth that was ours in 2019. This is a considerable challenge for all of us. I am sure that we will succeed in raising it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u7	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u8	I am very pleased to present to you the Government's guidelines in the context of the 2021 public finance policy debate. The particular context has been recalled by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery: we are facing a deficit level and negative growth that we have never experienced, and therefore a deterioration in public finances that is proven to be exceptional. First of all, I would like to return to the use of our budget during the pre-crisis period. I also want to tell the truth about the current state of our public finances. Finally, since it is a question of trajectory, I will refer to the prospects for 2021, which will be decisive for financing the political priorities of the Government and the majority, as well as for ensuring the sustainability and sustainability of our public finances. We have not had to be ashamed of our action since 2017, which has resulted in a marked improvement in public finances, until last year. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, our strategy has been based on the reduction of compulsory levies to restore purchasing power to the French and to restore competitiveness, on the control of expenditure and public debt, and on the strict application of the principle of sincerity, both to forecasts and to the budgeting of expenditure. Let us not neglect the role played by the quality of this management in our ability to cope with the crisis. The efforts made over the past three years have made it possible to secure our room for manoeuvre to cope with the exceptional expenses that have been, and are still, necessary to respond to the crisis. They also provide us with a solid foundation to prepare for the rebound of our economy and the recovery of public finances. The reforms that we have carried out have been a major part of this. First of all, I would like to mention the reduction in compulsory levies, which will continue in order to restore the purchasing power of the French and the competitiveness of companies – I am of course thinking of the abolition of the housing tax, the reduction of social contributions, the tax and social exemption from overtime, the transformation of the CICE, the tax credit for competitiveness and employment, the permanent reduction of social contributions, or the reduction of the tax on companies. As a result, the mandatory levy rate increased from 45.1% in 2017 to 44.8% in 2018 and 43.8% in 2019. We must continue our efforts in this regard and thus fulfil our commitments. Secondly, the increase in expenditure has been controlled, in particular through structural reforms in the areas of housing, employment and public broadcasting. Local governments, which we know are facing increasing responsibilities, have also committed themselves to the common effort to control public finances. In recent years, local communities and organizations have had a surplus balance. This is partly due to the conclusion, in 2018, of Cahors' contracts and the increased targeting of local government spending. Before the health crisis, social security finances had returned to a situation close to balance, with last year's deficit falling to EUR 1.9 billion, its lowest level since the early 2000s. Finally, the quality of public management has been improved thanks to a work to streamline the forecasts drawn up in the original financial laws, but also to greater compliance with parliamentary authorizations, like the last two amending budgets, which have not been accompanied by an advance decree. The Court of Auditors has stressed this in its report on the development of public finances, a reflection must be undertaken on how public finances should be managed in a changed context and an uncertain future. We must take into account the economic and financial consequences of the health crisis, but also the impact it has on our pilotage capacity. The Government's use of three amending budgets for 2020, the last of which has been the subject of consensus – this afternoon the National Assembly and the Senate will decide on the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee – shows that we have been able to react quickly to the crisis in order to provide the necessary responses to the survival of our economy but above all to the maintenance of skills and incomes. We have had to make strong decisions, putting the health of our citizens at the forefront of priorities, and adjust the appropriations of the public administrations concerned. In 2020, it was €8 billion in additional health expenditure that was needed to finance massive orders for medicines, breathers and masks, as well as to pay premiums for healthcare workers and daily allowances. The cessation of activity has upset our businesses, especially the smallest of them, and their employees. We have helped them and we must redouble our efforts to continue to do so both in 2020 and as part of the recovery plan. I am referring to massive support for employment through the financing of partial activity, which now represents more than EUR 31 billion of commitments. I will also mention the Solidarity Fund, which has been extended to cover the most vulnerable businesses in the third PLFR and now includes more than EUR 8 billion. The State placed itself in the position of last resort insurer of the French economy by guaranteeing loans to companies that needed them. I am also thinking of the postponement of the payment deadlines for certain compulsory levies, which will now be the subject of cancellations defined in Article 18 of the Third PLFR, the early repayment of tax credits and the special allocation account "State financial contributions", which we have abounded with EUR 20 billion in order to allow us to take equity interests in companies that would need them to ensure their economic survival or guarantee the economic and industrial sovereignty of our country. Containment has exacerbated the disparities that exist in our society. It was our duty to provide, in addition to the actions already carried out, support for the most fragile. That is why we have extended the replacement income, postponed the entry into force of the unemployment insurance reform by a few months, paid an exceptional premium of precariousness and granted additional assistance to young people and students. We funded food or hygiene service cheques to accompany the most fragile. All these health, economic and social measures, as well as the guarantees provided by the State, total EUR 470 billion. It was our duty to live up to the challenges of the health crisis. In this context, you will agree, the deterioration of our public finances was inevitable, and I challenge anyone to claim that we could have acted differently in the face of such a shock. At this stage, our economic forecasts allow us to estimate the impact of the crisis on public finances. Thus, the government deficit would be 11.4 per cent of GDP in 2020, compared with 2.2 per cent foreseen in the original finance law. The structural deficit would, on the other hand, be stable at 2.2%, since the effects of the crisis are exceptional. Debt would also reach a record level of 121 per cent of GDP. Despite this, France continues to enjoy the confidence of its creditors. Our credibility in the markets, which is very important to our management, confirms how much effort has been made to deal with the crisis in better conditions. The state continues to finance itself in an optimal way for public finances today. Public finances have been used as an instrument to combat the crisis. We have taken strong, focused and counter-cyclical action. We will continue to do so for the coming months and for the next two years as part of the recovery plan to which priority is given. According to the latest forecasts, GDP would rebound mechanically by 8% in 2021, before the intervention of the recovery plan. These forecasts are encouraging but remain very uncertain, as the recovery of activity remains very dependent on the health situation and the crisis has led to structural changes in companies, which we are probably not yet measuring all the consequences. It is therefore necessary to adopt a recovery plan for our economic fabric. The resulting measures will be at the heart of the 2021 finance bill, which the Government will present in a few weeks' time and which we will discuss in the coming months. The 2021 finance bill will be accompanied by a green budget to measure the environmental impact of our action. This innovation will promote a real readability of the effects of public action on the environment. This is the first time a country has carried out this exercise in its national budget. We intend to use the same method to measure the greenness of the actions to be carried out under the recovery plan. This is a step forward that meets the objective of transparency and the expectations of our citizens. Measures dedicated to recovery will essentially be grouped into a new mission of the State budget. This will be temporary and will be outside the scope of the standard of pilotable expenditure, in order to facilitate the reading of our action. Each public policy will thus be allocated, for the next two years, appropriations from the general budget and appropriations from the recovery plan. The 2021 budget, apart from the recovery plan, whose first balances are presented to you in the famous document which it is agreed to call the "undrawn", confirms our serious budget. With a 2.6 per cent increase in government expenditure, i.e. 7.2 billion euros, the Government has chosen to build a budget that takes the three-year trajectory as a reference point, updated by the commitments made and the new priorities arising from the period we are living in. The trend in pilotable expenditure is accompanied by a control of the staff of the State. Indeed, we aim at the stability of the job pattern in 2021. We are working on this by delivering on the commitments made to priority departments, which requires efforts from other departments, but also by giving priority to job creation in the territorial administration, which forces the central government to make a greater effort than in the past. The PLF for 2021 will make it possible to fulfil several commitments that we made. Thus, the armies, which have benefited from an unprecedented reinforcement of their resources since 2017 – €5.2 billion in three years – will see their budget with an additional €1.7 billion in 2021, in particular in support of space defence, in accordance with the military programming law. The means of justice will also be increased: a 6 per cent increase in the budget of the Ministry of Justice is planned to finance an increase in the number of staff to meet the needs of justice and to improve the reception of victims. Our ambition is also to invest in knowledge and skills to enable young people to build their future calmly and to benefit from professional opportunities in a deeply disrupted labour market. This is why the budgets for national education and higher education and research will increase by EUR 1.3 billion and EUR 300 million respectively. With this in mind, we are also financing, in the framework of the third PLFR and the recovery policy, premiums for the recruitment of young people and apprentices, or for recruitment into a professionalisation contract. Environmental issues are another priority that we want to fund under the PLF for 2021. Funding for the ecological transition will amount to more than €26 billion, up €550 million, plus a major envelope of the recovery plan. We will ensure that the ecological transition is at the heart of the priorities of recovery, not only out of conviction but also in respect of our international and European commitments. Other priorities will be funded, even if the budget envelopes will be smaller – I gladly concede it. Thus, the appropriations for culture will increase by EUR 150 million. The budget for equality between women and men will increase by almost 40% in 2021, an unprecedented increase. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] These broad guidelines should serve as a framework for the general discussion that is taking place today. I know the commitment of each of you to the public interest and to the public accounts. I am therefore convinced that today we will have quality exchanges, which will allow us to build together a budget that will put us back on the path of growth, employment and also of the recovery of public finances. It will be necessary to ensure that our priorities are funded while ensuring that the measures we will take in favour of recovery are not sustainable – they will have to be useful, effective and massive without, however, causing structural deterioration of public accounts, as we committed ourselves to it and as Bruno Le Maire reminded us right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u9	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u10	You are late, Minister of the Economy: it is now that the recovery plan must be put in place. Now, as you said yourself, we'll have to wait until next month. There is no particular reason for this delay except to try to set the political tone of the re-entry, especially since the implementation of this plan will obviously be very long, because it is not enough to discuss it! But you know my disagreement on this issue of the calendar. [[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] In order to cope with the tsunami that hit our economy, we have had to massively support our businesses, and more generally the French economy. The safeguard plan mobilised around EUR 468 billion, an absolutely huge sum that needs to be relativized. On the one hand, there is one-off aid, with no immediate impact on the balance, such as tax carry-overs or state guarantees, and on the other hand, real expenditure, which amounts to about EUR 60 billion. This remains enormous in view of our country's financial capacity. Such a level of spending was totally unimaginable a few months ago, but today we have entered "for real", forced and forced, in a new world, the one where we can spend without counting. It is all the easier to be a minister today because there is no longer any problem with a cheque book, the minister of the economy has just said so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u11	It's a fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u12	To hear the delegate minister responsible for public accounts, i.e. expenditure, everything is priority: justice, defence, health, education, research, culture, environment, territories. When everything is a priority, nothing is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u14	That there are no budgetary priorities in 2021 is a huge problem for our country, because then everything is possible! I do not believe, however, that even in the new world one can spend "no matter what it costs." As you said, Minister of Economy, the Government is expected to release an additional EUR 100 billion this autumn over two years, a cumulative effort of more than EUR 160 billion in new spending. I am fully aware of the need to spend massively to ameliorate the recession and avoid the proliferation of social plans and the explosion of mass unemployment. But our country cannot suddenly exonerate itself from any financial constraints. Some expenditure, such as the financing of partial unemployment or the purchase of masks, is one-off, but others are perennial, such as the €8.5 billion released after the Segur de la Santé in favour of raising the salaries of health workers or the announced abolition of certain production taxes. God knows if we are in favour of it, but one day you will have to tell us how you intend to finance it. I thought this was the subject of this public finance policy debate, but obviously it is not. Don't confuse public accounts with fairy tales! There are realities behind these figures. That is why I propose, with the objective of clarifying, to attach to the recovery plan a serious and solid plan of financial recovery, or financial convalescence of our country. You have to explain how we finance the country's effort in practice: the sustainable confidence of the French and the markets is at this price. Your goal of regaining 2019's level of wealth in 2022 is achievable, according to many forecasters: the natural course of things and the accumulation of stimulus plans will no doubt allow it, but the same will not apply to the restoration of public finances. It will have to take a long and difficult path, as the Court of Auditors has rightly pointed out, whatever the scenario chosen, from the most cautious to the most pessimistic. Curiously, this is the time you choose to announce the creation of a fifth risk – it should be voted on this afternoon. Recognize that the calendar is rather saugrenuous, at a time when all branches are massively in deficit. It will be an empty shell because we do not know how this risk will be funded and that this old idea will only become a reality once sustainable funding is found. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] How can we avoid pouring water into a sinking boat? How can we ensure that this recovery plan allows us both to transform France and to consolidate our financial sovereignty? These are the debates that we should have today, rather than a trivial debate on the direction of public finances. It is a very important plan for the recovery of our public finances that we should discuss.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u15	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Before I give the floor to Mrs Fadila Khattabi, on behalf of all of us, I would like to congratulate her on her election yesterday to the chairmanship of the Committee on Social Affairs. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u16	The moment is crucial for our assembly as it is the future of our public finances that we are going to debate. As chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I would like to stress the importance of a joint examination by our two committees. Social finance plays a very special role in our country for a number of reasons. I will start with a figure: almost 600 billion euros are allocated to social protection, which is therefore the first item of public expenditure, far ahead of the expenditure of the state or local authorities. Social finances are also essential because of the plurality of their functions. Social security expenditure is of course used to treat, combat poverty and ensure the well-being of our citizens by protecting them from the risks of life. Above all, social finance is a bulwark that reduces the impact of crises by ensuring the protection of the most vulnerable. As the Prime Minister stated in his policy statement, "we will not return to unity without greater attention to the most vulnerable of us. From this point of view, the creation of ministries dedicated to autonomy and integration is a positive signal on the part of the Government, promising, hopefully, budgetary decisions to match the stakes. The budgetary choices made through previous social security financing laws have made it possible to amortize the effects of the current crisis. Support for the maintenance of employment and skills, as well as the support of businesses at the heart of the crisis through the postponement or cancellation of social contributions, have helped to keep our country afloat. I would like to stress the way in which we have dealt collectively with the health crisis, first of all by strengthening our sanitary equipment: 4.5 billion euros have come to increase the budget of the French Public Health Agency. The national objective of the health insurance expenditure – ONDAM – that we will have to vote for will be historic since it will take into account the €8 billion in additional expenditure for our health system and our medical and social institutions. Finally, social finance will play a major role in the face of a global economic and social crisis. In this respect, we can only welcome the system of partial activity which France has been able to set up quickly and which should ultimately benefit more than 10 million employees. This real social shock has made it possible to retain millions of our citizens in employment, thus guaranteeing the preservation of our economic fabric, indispensable for the resumption of activity. Also, it is several tens of billions of euros of social contributions that will continue to contribute, in the medium and long term, to the financing of our social protection. As far as the future is concerned, I would like to raise two issues before you. The first concerns social finance itself. The economic recovery, with an 8% increase in GDP expected for next year, is expected to lead to a recovery in social security revenues. However, it will be gradual. That is why we will pay particular attention to the delicate balance between expenditure and revenue that a return-to-balance path implies when considering future social security financing bills in committee. It is important to remember that we were very close to this balance in 2019. The second topic is employee support. I would like to commend the pragmatism with which the Government has put in place a system of long-term partial activity, which is a relevant and appropriate response. In view of the historical increase in unemployment, this scheme may be combined with other measures in the Third Financial Reform Bill, in favour of both apprentices and students, since youth employment is also one of the objectives for which social finance will obviously have a role to play. Overall, the loss of contributions will result in a mechanical increase in the unemployment rate. We must do everything we can to ensure that this does not reduce the resources devoted to our health system or to the management of autonomy, the fifth branch of social security that we will be voting for today. You will have understood this: saving employment is also saving our model of social protection, which is still largely based on work. Critical choices await our committee when considering future financial texts. The debate we have today is an opportunity to measure these issues, at the mitan of a fiscal year as we have never known before. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The economic recovery plan announced in recent days by the President of the Republic and the agreements reached at European level will also have a positive impact on the economic and social sphere of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u17	The rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u18	This public finance policy debate, in view of the 2021 finance bill, launches the recovery sequence, after the time of urgency marked by the discussion of three amending finance bills in March, April and July – we will have the opportunity to come back this afternoon. This debate is taking place today in an unprecedented period of crisis. Usually located in the continuity of the publication of the April stability programme and being a priori the opportunity to revise the multi-annual trajectory of public finances, the policy debate this year is part of a context of great economic and budgetary uncertainty. The stability programme, transmitted to the European Commission at the end of April 2020, was lightened: the trajectory beyond 2021 was too uncertain to be updated. The preparatory report for this debate, which was released by the Government on 29 June, gives some prospects for the economic situation and the evolution of the main budgetary indicators for 2021. However, it was designed "at constant law", taking into account the third PLFR before its consideration in Parliament and, above all, before the arbitrations prior to the PLF for 2021 and the main measures to boost economic activity which will be announced on 24 August. Our policy debate is taking place at a turning point, at a crossroads of the public response to the crisis. It will be an opportunity to show the significant improvement in public accounts in 2019, to reveal the scale of the economic crisis for the financial year 2020, and finally to sketch out, in an unprecedented way, the financial year 2021. The whole point of the debate is to cover these three years. We discussed this at length during the review of the proposed Regulations, and we will do so one last time this afternoon, but it must be said again: the 2019 fiscal year was a success in many respects. It enables us to face the crisis in good economic and financial conditions, and to respond to the challenges, by addressing the urgency and by promoting recovery. The government deficit was around 3% of GDP; the government debt-to-GDP ratio has stabilized; the ratio of compulsory levies decreased by one point of GDP between 2018 and 2019, as announced; the ratio of public expenditure decreased by 0.3 percentage points. These improvements, which are evidence of fiscal seriousness, are forces and weapons to cope with the crisis. The implementation of the guidelines of the Public Finance Programming Act is facing the economic crisis of 2020. This year is expected to see a record government deficit of 11.4% of GDP. Debt would increase by more than EUR 250 billion, while national wealth would contract by 11%, with still poorly perceived effects on potential growth. Although all budgetary efforts since March are aimed at containing the violence of the crisis, the prospect of a rapid and complete recovery of the losses suffered by our economy is not acquired. The report prepared by the Government to prepare for this debate foresees a recovery in GDP of about 8 per cent in 2021, a mechanical rebound following the strong recession of 2020. Despite this rebound, the expected level of GDP at the end of 2021 is expected to be 4% lower than at the end of 2019. We must therefore remain cautious: if an improvement is planned, the crisis will leave us still groggy, and the year 2021 will not be enough to make us bounce back. New public finance programming will therefore have to take place in the coming months. When will we know the main elements, ministers? Aside from the Government's preparatory report, it is announced that sectoral programming laws will be implemented. He does distinguish between priorities, Mr President of the Committee on Finance, including research, teaching and all of the legitimate missions. As rapporteur-general of the budget, I will be extremely vigilant in the coming months to ensure a clear, legible, understandable and coherent separation between the recovery budget and the structural balance. It is by continuing to make a serious budgetary effort with regard to structural expenditure that we can be ambitious in terms of recovery. It would be a very bad answer to allow public expenditure to flow and to increase the operating expenses of the State; The market sanction would then be felt, and we should probably increase compulsory levies – we must avoid it at all costs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The Government wants to be ambitious in terms of recovery, thanks to the €100 billion plan to be announced on 24 August: we will fully support you in this direction, provided that you preserve the fiscal seriousness that has been our trademark for the past three years on the structural balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u19	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u20	The rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u21	First of all, let me share the pleasure of participating for the first time in this debate as rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs. The exercise is part of the sincerity of the budget and the transparency of the implementation of the public policies we are voting in this House. The response to the health crisis has significantly altered the initial forecasts. In a few months, we've changed the world. It is not enough to say that social security has taken its full part in the nation's financial effort. The EUR 8 billion increase in ONDAM helped to respond quickly to the scale of the epidemic by arming Public Health France and allocating additional resources to caregivers. The budgets of the State and the branches of social security – I am thinking in particular of the social action carried out by the National Fund of Family Allowances, the CNAF – have also helped to support the most fragile audiences. Four million families received a bonus on 15 May, for a total amount of EUR 1 billion, while the most vulnerable students and young people received support from the public authorities. In these difficult times, social cohesion is not negotiable. Revenue efforts are unprecedented: they reach €43 billion, of which €25 billion is the only reduction in the wage bill. The social shock absorbers played their full role and reached an unrivalled level, twice as high as in 2010. Whether it is carry-overs and cancellations of social security contributions, or the decrease in resources linked to the rapid deployment of partial activity, the measures introduced by the Government and the majority have maintained continuity of employment, preserved skills and avoided a wave of bankruptcies. These efforts were made jointly by social security schemes, supplementary schemes and Unédic. The Central Agency of Social Security Agencies – ACOSS – supports schemes to overcome possible financial difficulties. For its part, Unédic finances one third of the expenses related to the partial activity. This joint support is an additional proof of the overall coherence of our social protection – coherence which, in my view, calls for collective reflection on the scope of the PLFSS. Many discussions have been initiated on this subject, both by the High Council for the Financing of Social Protection and by our Assembly. The action of bodies already included, in national accounts, in the field of social security administrations – ASSO – can no longer constitute a blind point in our financial year. Given the financial links between unemployment insurance, supplementary pension schemes and basic compulsory schemes, is it still normal that, in the PLFSS, we can never examine measures that affect each other, let alone the other? These considerations could lead to a change in the organic framework for the review of PLFSS, regarding their scope and timing of review. Indeed, the joint examination of State, local and regional government and social security expenditure shows the value of a comprehensive financial approach, without denying the specificity of social finance. This peak path calls for a clarification of the modes of presentation of the two financial texts rather than for their approximation. A joint presentation of the PLF and the PLFSS in the Council of Ministers would be perfectly justified, as their measures are intertwined – the latest amending finance bill demonstrates this. This would also offer better conditions for examining the PLFSS, long awaited by my colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs, regardless of political divisions. As far as enforcement is concerned, the discussion is open. Should we go to a regulation law for social finance? How can the social spring of the evaluation be linked with early communication of documents to assess past measures, such as quality and efficiency programmes? These are the questions we will have to answer before the end of the legislature. Our answers will have to help strengthen the information that we benefit – and that the French benefit from through us. They cannot make us forget that the text that we are dealing with every autumn concerns an autonomous field of public finances, which justifies by its scope – a little more than half of public expenditure – and by its historical, philosophical and technical specificities, the existence of a financial text of its own. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] The next fiscal year will therefore be crucial, both for the future of the health system and for the financing of the autonomy of millions of French – within, I hope, a new branch of social security, long debated, long postponed, and of which our majority intends to acknowledge the creation this afternoon. The first budget, which I will present as rapporteur-general, will prove that dealing with the emergencies of the crisis does not in any way prevent us from preparing for the future of social protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u22	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u23	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u24	The public finance policy debate for 2021 is special. As we enter into an economic and social crisis of which we are far from measuring all the consequences, the horizon of 2021 seems distant. Yet we must now respond to the needs and expectations of the French. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government and Parliament have acted together to limit its impact on the economy and the population. This is the meaning of the three draft amending finance laws that have been under consideration since March. We must now look ahead and plan for the future. As has been said, recovery is at the heart of our priorities. It must be based on three inseparable pillars: an economic pillar, an ecological pillar and a social pillar. I will insist on the latter. The social mobilization mentioned by the President of the Republic must be at the heart of the recovery. Since we're in a small committee this morning, I can afford a confidence...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u25	It's not easy here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u26	[[Smile]] I'll try, dear Véronique! I come from the beautiful land of Anjou, on the banks of the Loire, where I lived a wonderful life with my family. Daughter of peasant, coming from a very modest environment, I have many memories of happy childhood, but also others, more difficult – I think in particular of the cold showers that we took when there was no longer enough to power the boiler. At home, we didn't have hot water every day. Yet these times are not so distant – I was born after the early seventies – but this was my reality as a child. Many families still know this reality. Our life stories forge our personalities and fuel our struggles. I do politics out of taste for others, out of attention to others and especially to the most fragile – even yesterday, I was in the camps of Aubervilliers. Solidarity is central to my commitment, and that is why the citizens of my constituency have trusted me. More than ever, we must make social issues a priority – especially in the fight against poverty, as the crisis has amplified the daily difficulties of many French people. Many of them have been deprived of employment – and therefore of income – due to the scarcity of fixed-term contracts, temporary assignments and many "small jobs". It is crucial in this regard to support the precarious households, which are most affected by the crisis, in terms of both employment and purchasing power. This must be done through measures to support the purchasing power of modest households, with a targeted redistribution towards them, which could take the form, for example, of an additional allowance for students and precarious workers, as suggested by the Economic Analysis Board – in addition, of course, to the measures already announced by the Government. Such measures would fuel consumption as well as business activity, since aid to the poorest is immediately spent, so much needs are needed. The support of young people is also essential; I welcome the fact that it is a priority for the coming months. More broadly, the economic integration sector deserves to be at the heart of the recovery plan. Social mobilization must also involve the upgrading of the care and accompaniment professions – this has been said. From this point of view, the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé are crucial. They are exceptional in scope, and will have to quickly find a translation in the wallet of the professionals concerned. In the end, we need to focus today on the issue of social mobilization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u27	Trust us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u28	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups]] In any case, we will be particularly vigilant in this regard in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u29	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u30	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] In 1981 the valves of public expenditure were wide open. Nine months later, in 1982, the cords of reminder imposed their law – at the time, it was called "external constraint". Then, in 1983, it was the turning point in rigour. At the time, the external constraint was that of financing, that of debt; The reminder ropes were the interest rates, which doubled in a few months, inflation, which exploded, the difficulties France faced in financing – it had to beg lines of credit from Saudi Arabia – and the external trade deficit, which was growing, the distributed purchasing power making the factories run abroad; We even had to open improvised warehouses in Poitiers to store the video recorders!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u31	Don't you have any more recent references?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u32	At the time, public expenditure was capped at 45% of GDP; In 2020, it will exceed 63%. At the time, public debt was less than 25% of GDP; It now stands at 120%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u33	Could you tell us about the Balladur loan, too? From the Giscard loan? billions of parasitic spending?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u34	Hence this question: can the dramatic scenario of 1982-1983 be repeated today? In the short and medium term, I do not think so, because the euro and the European Central Bank protect us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u35	All right? We're quiet, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u36	In 1982, with the franc and the banknote board of the Banque de France, this was not the case. However, we must ask ourselves this question: can we go into debt without limits? Can fiscal ease, fiscal domination last indefinitely? I don't think so. The sustainability of public debt is the main challenge facing our public finances today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u37	Not at all! The challenge is private debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u38	Strangely enough, however, this issue is not addressed in the preparatory report for the public finance policy debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u39	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u40	This report, as Eric Woerth said, is an expenditure fireworks. Of course, I do not deny the need for support for recovery, but, apart from a petition in principle – "we will not increase taxes" – there is no word on financing, nor on debt, which explodes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u41	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u42	It's all right, Mrs. Marquise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u43	That is why I want to focus on this issue this morning: debt. Can we live, ladies and gentlemen, with a debt of up to 120% of GDP?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u44	Read my report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u45	Yes, as long as interest rates remain low and the country can finance itself. A decade ago, economists Reinhart and Rogoff showed, through the study of two centuries of bankruptcies and country defaults, that around 100% of GDP is reaching a dangerous area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u46	There was an error in the Excel file used by the authors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u47	There are two reasons for this. The first is that debt servicing limits room for manoeuvre: the country no longer has the capacity to invest, so to innovate. The second is psychological: when the debt becomes massive, economic agents expect tax increases, they are afraid of bankruptcy and adapt accordingly their behaviour. The example of Japan, which has a debt of 250 per cent of GDP, is cited. But this debt is financed by national savings; In addition, I note that growth and purchasing power have been stagnating in Japan for the past 20 years. Comparisons can also be made with dramatic situations, such as that of Argentina, which was one of the richest countries in the world at the end of the war and which is completely downgraded today, or with today's Lebanon. These comparisons do not seem appropriate to me. Instead, we should remember what happened in 2008-2009 and again in 2011 during the sovereign debt crisis. In Italy and Spain, a country protected by the euro, the interest rate differential – what is known as the spread – has increased dramatically compared to Germany and even France, reaching 400 or 500 basis points. The public debt of these countries has become budgetaryly unsustainable – and I am not talking about Greece and the very painful efforts that have been demanded of its people. And yet, in Italy and Spain, budgets have been voted and implemented for several years with a positive primary balance, that is to say, by setting a clean table of the past. There are no financial costs, and the only question is whether we will be able to offset the year's expenses by the year's revenues. This is true in Italy, but it is not true in France: for decades, our primary balance has been negative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u49	I mean it! Capital doesn't pay!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u50	This is where another factor comes in, which is very formidable and of which Italy is victim: the snowball effect of public debt. Indeed, the country's volume growth is so low that, in addition to inflation, nominal growth is lower than interest rates and debt becomes unsustainable. If, for the moment, our country has managed to avoid this situation, I am convinced that we are not immune. This is the whole challenge of fiscal and financial policy. The most effective mix of spending, debt and increased productivity and competitiveness must be found. As Mr Le Maire said earlier, attention must focus on the right expenditure: a selective expenditure, an investment expenditure, an expenditure of the future. But attention must also – and the minister has not said so – focus on the consequence of this expenditure, which is debt, which we must control. We, members of the Republican Group, voted for the three budget collectives. We are fully aware that, under the current circumstances, due to the violence of the health crisis, every effort must be made to preserve and strengthen our growth potential. This requires an increase in public spending – but it still needs to be the right spending. And that goes through tax cuts – but it still needs to be the right tax cuts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u51	Or the right increases!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u52	Moreover – as the minister said – this additional expenditure must be temporary, productive and oriented towards structural reforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u54	Yes! There's no cigarette paper between the Republicans and the Republic on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u55	[["Ah! »on the benches of the GDR group]] As for the tax cuts, which increase the deficit – since, as Éric Woerth pointed out, they are financed by debt – they too must strengthen the competitiveness of the economy. We have been calling for a reduction in production taxes for the past three years, because we know that even if it is financed by short-term debt, it will earn revenue in the medium term. But today, Minister Delegate for Public Accounts, you are facing a magical impression of money; It is at a festival of promises and spending all azimuts that the President of the Republic performs almost every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u56	Rather, it is a policy of austerity that is being pursued right now...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u57	This can only make the task more difficult for you. Moreover, the budgetary history of recent years can only encourage carelessness, short-term preference and ultimately financial irresponsibility. What is the French budgetary reality? For too long, the public debt has primarily financed recurrent operating expenses – wage bill, social transfers, health expenditure – and very incidentally investment expenditure. If it is legitimate to finance by debt the construction of a hospital because it will serve for several generations, it is not legitimate, it is even unfair to finance by debt the consumption of medicines, because our children and grandchildren will have to pay two bills: theirs and their forefathers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u58	Yes, but if we don't take care of each other, they won't have parents!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u59	Tax Sanofi!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u60	Over the past 30 years, the government budget deficit has been two to five times higher each year than investment expenditure, which is in the order of €20 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u61	All you're thinking about is cutting down on the recipes. Impose the capital!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u62	Therefore, each new loan is used to finance not only the interest on the debt, but also the pay of public servants...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u63	Ah! These nurses!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u64	...– and this, from December 1st, the good years, and from November 1st, the bad ones. From this point of view, the year 2020 will break all the records, with a budget deficit of 222 billion euros for 460 billion euros of expenditure. Yet, for years, good intentions have not failed, here, to try to reserve the debt for the financing of the investment. I remember that in 2008, when the Constitution was reformed, a number of us were in favour of introducing a golden rule to do so. That was not possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u65	Here? Would Sarkozy have been wrong?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u66	The aim of the medium-term balance of public finances has been limited to the inclusion in the Constitution of multi-annual programming laws which, moreover, are never respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u67	Would it be a mea culpa?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u68	We have been a few to fight for a golden rule of at least the necessary balance, on the economic cycle, of social accounts, but we have not obtained it. And then, for the good cause, research and investment expenditure was also devalued: for 45 billion euros, it was the object of the investment programmes for the future – there were three PIAs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u69	Very good measure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u70	This was indeed an excellent step, Mr rapporteur-general, except that, at the same time, the State continued to borrow heavily to finance its operating expenses. In the end, the IAPs accelerated debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u71	It's true that in terms of debt, Sarkozy has done very hard...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u72	Today, two new avenues are opening up, unfortunately ever more debt: the mutualised European debt and the cantonment of the so-called covid national debt. Let Europe borrow to finance future spending, investments in energy transition, infrastructure, research, health, why not; But a loan, even European, always ends up repaying itself, including low interest rates. However, I have found the President of the Republic unspeakable on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u73	And for good reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u74	New European resources? Those who have a little experience in this house can only be skeptical! The tax on financial transactions? It was introduced into the general tax code – with a zero rate, it is true – as early as 2000. During the previous legislature, there was not a single examination of a finance bill without Michel Sapin announcing that, within fifteen days, within eight days or 48 hours, Germany would introduce it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u75	That's right, he always said it was imminent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u76	As a result, we are still waiting for the Bundestag to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u77	He'll never vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u78	We did it – but not the others. The GAFA tax? We supported Bruno Le Maire's efforts; I regret the failure which, objectively, we are facing today. The carbon tax at the borders? This is a good idea, but it will take decades to apply, judging by the precedent of the financial transaction tax. On the other hand, there is something very worrying about the Europe Agreement: the increase in the rebates enjoyed by some countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u79	Oh, yes, that's unfair!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u80	France's annual contribution to the European budget is therefore likely to increase. We are told that we will recover 40 billion euros out of 750, but 40 billion euros represents just two years of European levies in our country's annual budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u81	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u82	Not quite!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u83	Deputy Minister, I would like you to reassure us: is this agreement not a deceit market? As for the cantonment of the debt...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u84	I mean, we're talking about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u85	...we have already done so for social debt with the creation of the CADES, the Social Debt Depreciation Fund, in 1996, and we have seen the result. First of all, it is not because a debt is confined that it exempts from paying it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u86	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u87	Second, CADES borrowing has at times been more expensive than direct government borrowing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u88	Because there weren't enough strains!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u89	It was necessary to find 7 billion euros a year and to create an additional compulsory levy, the CRDS – contribution for the repayment of the social debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u90	That is precisely why we are going to transfer 136 billion euros to CADES!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u91	Finally, this debt is becoming perpetual. Its extinction was planned in 2020, then in 2025, and now, rapporteur-general, in 2042 or 2043.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u92	In 2042!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u93	[[Smile]] Consequently, cantonment is an illusion. This reminds me of the white rabbit that the prestidigitator makes disappear, but that invariably ends up reappearing somewhere. Deputy Minister, I am afraid that cantonment is just another facility for swindling part of the debt and allowing itself to borrow more and more. I would therefore like to make a proposal on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u94	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u95	The rapporteur-general is also very interested in this, and I commend him for his efforts. From now on, bad debt, as is done in companies, should be confined to structures of defeat. In other words, all the debt corresponding to recurrent operating expenses should be set aside. Perhaps this would raise awareness of the enormous problem of debt sustainability in our country. In 2005, there was a click: the famous commission led by Michel Pébereau had been created. As a coincidence, 2005 and 2006 were, in 20 years, the only two years when the primary balance was positive and the debt as a percentage of GDP fell. However, the imagination does not stop at the cantonment or the debt contracted by other European countries. Some of us are proposing to make the debt perpetual, or even not to repay it at all, in any case with regard to the debt held by the central banks. Perpetual debt has already existed: it was it that brought the annuitants to life throughout the 19th century. It was very expensive, in any case much more expensive than the current system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u96	But we offer an interest-free debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u97	The massive acquisitions of sovereign securities by the European Central Bank, the ECB, have indeed enabled us to achieve a renewable debt which is called "rolling debt" and which is de facto perpetual, but at very low cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u98	All right! Inflation is the best solution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u99	There are, however, two conditions for this. The first is that the inflation rate does not increase or, in any case, does not exceed 2%: this will certainly be the case for a few years, since this objective is part of the ECB's mandate. The second is to take care of the maximum percentage of sovereign debt that the central bank system can bear. During the pandemic, up to 50% was allowed, compared to just over 30% in normal times.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u100	There's a margin!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u101	Mr President of the Committee on Finance, the rapporteur-general, we must devote in-depth work to this absolutely crucial issue. As for the simple cancellation of the debt, it would be a serious mistake because it would compromise confidence, and therefore the protection that the euro and the European monetary system are giving us today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u102	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u103	Mr. Mélenchon, you will consult your sources. I am struck by the fact that between 1981 and 1984, in the midst of a crisis, when the government had communist ministers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u104	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u105	...not a single one has dared to ask for the cancellation, even partial, of the debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u106	We didn't give them time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u107	They thought this idea was counterproductive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u108	Don't talk for them, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u109	What I'm saying is historical, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u110	History like the Europe Agreement?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u111	It's a fact. In the current situation, what proposals can be made? This year's huge deficit – 10 to 11% of GDP – will lead to a surge in debt, which will reach 120% of GDP. Deputy Minister, I am surprised that in your document, the deficit target for 2021 is 5.5%. Although less than 10 or 11 per cent, this figure is too high. Indeed, if you do not stay substantially below, the debt will increase further. But a debt of more than 120% of GDP is dangerous – you agree with me, I believe, that this ceiling should not be exceeded. We must keep an eye on an essential indicator, which is too little used: the structural deficit stabilizing. This is the deficit in our public accounts, which does not lead to an increase in debt as a percentage of GDP. This obviously depends on inflation, growth and interest rates. Today, the stabilising structural deficit is around 2%: it is not out of reach. We need to get back to this level as soon as possible. A second indicator should also guide us: the primary balance, which Dominique Strauss-Kahn was the first to highlight. We can see our debt of 100 per cent of GDP as our legacy. It is then healthy, responsible, to wonder whether by setting aside the past, by cutting off the interest and financial costs generated by debt, we would be able to balance our spending and revenues. Deputy Minister, it is essential to return to the balance of the primary balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u112	To do this, you have to increase the revenues!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u113	Your responsibility will be immense: according to the report of the Court of Auditors, ten years of stable expenditure, in volume, would make us earn almost 20 points of debt. We'd loosen the carcan! It is your responsibility to control expenditure, whether it is good or bad, whether it is temporary, investment or recurrent. At the moment, budgetary conferences are taking place: ministers come, one after the other, to present for each budget increases in billions or even tens of billions of euros. It's magic money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u114	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u115	This facility must be resisted. Gérald Darmanin has lost far too many arbitrations: the public finance team is not supported by the President of the Republic, which is somewhat embarrassing. But you have to be good, otherwise we risk going to disaster. Above all, there is a pitfall to avoid: under the previous legislature, you were a socialist deputy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u116	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u117	So don't repeat the monstrous error...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u118	Be careful what you're going to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u119	... which consisted, as early as the amending finance law of August 2012, then in 2013 and 2014, of taxing businesses and middle classes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u120	That's true, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u121	What about the CICE?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u122	The tax incontinence of the majority of the time, at the beginning of the legislature, suffocated the country. As chairman of the Finance Committee, I have witnessed this: it was she who, from the outset, marked François Hollande's quinquennium!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u123	It still started a little before...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u124	Deputy Minister, you must therefore be extremely vigilant. Your role is crucial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u125	[[Smile]] Capital, that's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u126	I hope that the rapporteur-general will be at your side: helping to keep the public accounts is a very important aspect of his mandate, and he must not retreat, if necessary, from a conflict with the Government, with a particular minister. France's signature remains highly respected. Since the two-thirds bankruptcy in 1797, our country has never been lacking. Only the United Kingdom is in the same case. Germany itself was missing several times in the 19th century and then in the 20th century. We have the confidence of our lenders, but we need to know that two thirds of them are not French – not even European, for a large part –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u127	They're pretty Chinese!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u128	... and that interest rates are low or even negative. In appearance, everything is fine, hence the magic money; But under no circumstances should we give in to carelessness. The U.S. Federal Reserve's balance sheet now exceeds $7,000 billion:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u129	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u130	...it has increased by 66% in three months. The ECB's budget has swelled dramatically as a result of its massive buy-backs. From all this there is a clear sign: the storm is approaching.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u131	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u132	That's why we need to change the system!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u133	A serious financial crisis is inevitable in the short term.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u134	You'll see how they're going to clear the debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u135	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It will be better if our country is not left with unsustainable debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u136	Nice demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u137	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u138	The triple health, economic and social crisis linked to the break-up of the covid-19 puts a severe strain on the programming of our public finances. But the uncertainty surrounding health and economic forecasts must not exempt us from a debate about what has been done and what must be done. Let me therefore make a few remarks on behalf of the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. Our efforts to reduce the deficits that we have made since the beginning of the legislature have allowed us to enter this crisis with stronger public accounts than if we had kept the pace of the last three decades. Of course, dear Gilles Carrez, we can still regret that we have not been able to go faster, further, in the restoration of public finances. It should be recalled, however, that the results of the first three years of this legislature are relatively good in terms of the public deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u139	Relatively!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u140	In both 2017 and 2018, the deficit is around 2.5 points of GDP, the best result since 2007. In 2019, the deficit reaches 3 points of GDP if we take into account the transformation of the CICE into a decline in permanent expenses. Without the double accounting resulting from this measure, the deficit falls to 2.1 points of GDP – a positive result of the efforts made, which have allowed France to finally exit the excessive deficit procedure. These efforts have not been the sole act of the State. Communities and social security agencies have made a significant contribution. In this connection, I would like to return to the emergence of a new form of coordination between the state and the communities, under the sign of transparency and the sharing of responsibilities, far from the uniform, uncoordinated staffing cuts that had marked the previous legislature. The Cahors Pact has thus made it possible, by contract, to achieve very broadly the objectives of moderation of the growth of the expenditures of the communities, in particular of the operating expenses,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u141	For the communities, 11 billion euros less! Thank you for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u142	... while increasing confidence in these same communities as to how they can do so. Against an international slowdown, French growth in 2019, as in 2018, remained robust and above the euro area average. For the first time in more than a decade, French GDP has risen faster than that of our German partners. Growth is driven mainly by investment and consumption, in a context of slowing global demand: investment by non-financial enterprises, up 3.7%, reached a historically high level in 2019, and household consumption grew in 2019, supported by significant growth in purchasing power. This increase was made possible by the reforms adopted since 2017, such as the reform of the labour market and those of the various sectors of activity covered by the law on business growth and transformation – the PACTE law – which accompanied a sharp fall in unemployment, as well as by measures to lower household taxation, such as the abolition of the housing tax for 80% of French citizens and the transfer of wage contributions to the generalised social contribution – CSG –, not to mention the reduction of income tax for the middle classes and the strengthening of support schemes for employees – the premium of activity – and for the more fragile French people – notably the increase in the allowance for adults with disabilities. The best maintenance of public accounts and the sustained growth of 2018 and 2019 allowed us to react to the health crisis as quickly as massively and to make the best decisions, in the state of the knowledge of the moment, to preserve the health of our citizens and that of our companies. Admittedly, containment has been a brutal shock for businesses, artisans, traders and the economy in general. But we have cushioned the shock as much as possible to prevent the temporary from becoming permanent. Our productive fabric and entrepreneurial heritage should be preserved, whatever the cost. Between 15 March and 3 July 2020, the total amount of social contributions carried forward was EUR 25.92 billion, or more than a quarter of the contributions due in normal times. As at 7 July, the amount of aid granted under the Solidarity Fund was EUR 5 billion; They have helped more than 1.7 million small businesses, professionals, self-employed entrepreneurs and traders. In addition, 500,000 enterprises, among the smallest in the country, benefited from State-guaranteed loans. The partial activity has benefited more than 7 million employees since March. In total, the support measures implemented by the public authorities, primarily by the State, amount to EUR 460 billion, of which EUR 57.5 billion is spent in the Maastrichtian sense. This anti-bankruptcy and anti-licensing shield has helped to contain the very sharp rise in unemployment experienced by other countries in the world. We are now entering a second phase of the response to the crisis, that of the recovery, with the aim of returning to the level of activity of the end of 2019 by one year and eliminating the employment deficit by the end of 2021. This is a real challenge. The determination of the President of the Republic as well as the exceptional responsiveness of the Government and the services for which you have responsibility, Minister Delegate, certainly explain the favourable development of the economic situation described by INSEE in a note published a few minutes ago, which indicates a sharp rebound in all sectors. You have in fact acted effectively to support demand in all its components: consumption, first, with the partial activity that has maintained the purchasing power of employees, and the conversion premium devices or service cheques, of which we know they are the most effective instruments to activate the forced savings accumulated during confinement; Public procurement, then, with advances and new allocations open for communities. You have also preserved the country's productive capacity by making the choice to maintain human capital in companies and by massively supporting their cash flow. We have engaged with you in a reflection on corporate equity to ensure that the debt accumulated during the crisis does not jeopardize the resumption of investment. All this, employees, entrepreneurs, artisans and traders know that; they recognise the quality of public policy implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u143	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u144	But we are still far from the end of the crisis, and the massive intervention of the public authorities in supporting the economy and employment requires us, at the same time as we discuss the direction of public finances, to reconsider our collective priorities. The members of the MODEM Group identify three main projects in this area. First of all, adapting the economy to the climate challenge: the recovery must be an opportunity to accelerate the long-term transformation of our economy in the environmental field. Let us take the example of the plans to relaunch the automobile and the aeronautics. They contain two types of measures: those aimed at restarting the activity of these sectors, and investment support credits. With regard to the revival of activity, the car plan reflects a desire to renew the fleet by favouring clean vehicles, in particular by strengthening the ecological bonus for hybrid and electric vehicles. In terms of investment support, both plans pay particular attention to research and development to accelerate the transition to low-carbon fuels such as hydrogen and electricity. We hope that the plan that will be presented at the end of the summer will continue the efforts to transform companies in this direction. The second is the strengthening of our social model and the accompaniment of everyone at all ages of life. It must give priority to youth, the treasure of the nation, to which we must give our full attention in the coming months by continuing the development of civic service and learning, which are channels of excellence for access to citizenship and employment. It must support all families by recognizing that they are the first place of solidarity and transmission, that we must strengthen whenever we can. It must launch a new policy for autonomy, based on the creation of the fifth branch of social security which will be enshrined in this afternoon's vote. The third project is that of independence and sovereignty. The relocation of activities will not be effected by decree. The relocation of value added in France implies that the soil is fertile: it requires dynamic research carried out by more autonomous universities, a non-dissuasive tax and regulatory environment and world-class infrastructure – digital and mobility. As we know, France is distinguished by an abnormally high level of production taxes which, by taxing companies before they even make profits, strongly affects the competitiveness of our companies, particularly in the industrial sector. These taxes, in the first place the C3S – the social contribution of solidarity of companies –, the CVAE – the contribution on the added value of companies – and the CFE – the property contribution of companies – are among the first obstacles to the relocation of activities and to the productive sovereignty that we call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u145	And who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u146	Households!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u147	We therefore support the proposal of the Minister of the Economy to reduce them as part of the recovery plan to be proposed this summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u148	Who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u149	The middle classes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u150	I would add, if I may, a fourth project: the widest association of all French people with the fruits of prosperity, once we have found it. It will include the upgrading of the remuneration of those who were in the first or second line during the health crisis. On this point, the results of the Ségur de la santé are moving in the right direction. However, it will be necessary to go further and allow all employees, through a wider and more ambitious development of participation, self-interest and employee ownership, to share the fruits of growth and to be directly involved in the strategic stakes and decisions of their company.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u152	The shareholders will receive dividends!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u153	A word of method, finally, to highlight the progress we have made collectively, Parliament and Government, spring after spring, in the evaluation of public policies. As the Prime Minister recalled last week, "it is on the execution that our fellow citizens are waiting for us and are right to judge us. » I am pleased that progress is continuing in 2020, starting with that of the ex-ante evaluation. After putting in place a tool to enable every parliamentarian to measure on-line the effects of an amendment concerning income tax on public finances, income distribution and inequality, the Finance Committee has developed, in conjunction with the Interministerial Digital Directorate, a new tool, LexImpact, which will allow to estimate the impact of an amendment to the 2021 finance bill on municipal allocations. Moreover, as early as the PLF for 2021, France will be the first state in the world to present a green budget listing the environmental impact of tax expenditure and public policies. This new budget document represents a fundamental step forward in improving the readability and transparency of budgetary information and, more generally, Parliament's ex ante control of financial texts. Progress in the evaluation of public finances has also materialized in the response to the crisis of the Covid-19. At the beginning of April, the Finance Committee decided to modify its preparatory work in the spring of the evaluation by refocusing the work of the Special Rapporteurs on the effects of the crisis on public policies and the implementation of the 2020 budget at mid-term. At the same time, a committee chaired by Benoît Coeuré was responsible for monitoring implementation and evaluating financial support measures for companies facing the covid -19 epidemic. The establishment of this committee, which is already very active and in which, among other parliamentarians, the Chairman and the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance participate, shows that evaluation is more and more integrated into our political culture every day. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] On Tuesday 21 July, at dawn, Europe took a giant step that changed everything. Seventy years after the Schuman Declaration and the creation of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), twenty years after the creation of the euro, the European countries have decided to join forces and to continue their political integration by lifting a common debt and setting common budgetary objectives. It is a historic agreement, both in terms of the scale of the sums committed – 750 billion euros in addition to the multiannual financial framework, which are divided into 77 billion euros of aid from European programmes, 360 billion loans and 312 billion direct grants – and in terms of its modalities, since all Europeans will be solidarity with the debt. As a result of the exceptional commitment of the President of the Republic over the past three years, this agreement, in conjunction with the recovery plan that you will present this summer, Minister Delegate, opens a new horizon and hope for a better future for all French and all Europeans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u154	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u155	This fiscal policy debate should be as unprecedented as the magnitude of the economic shock we are experiencing, and because it is unprecedented, the Government would have gained the opportunity to present a fighting document. Instead, you are presenting us with a document equivalent, for three quarters, to last year's document. I had told the Prime Minister, after his general policy statement, that the Government was not sufficiently in "emergency" mode; I say this again today when I read the document for this budgetary policy debate. Let me give you some illustrations. Deputy Minister, you say you want to wait until August 24th to present your recovery plan. It's way too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u156	Of course! We kept saying it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u157	In addition, the document does not include the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé. Do these expenses actually exist? In any case, they are not included in the document. Furthermore, on page 19 of the report it is written that an amendment to the PLFR3 would compensate for the losses of VAT and ICTPE – internal consumption tax on energy products – for the regions to the tune of EUR 700 million. But, Minister Delegate, we have never seen the colour of this amendment! It has never been presented and, therefore, it has not been voted! I am continuing on the issue of local authorities. In 2020, you suspended Cahors' contracts, which regulate the evolution of their operating expenses. Now, although today's debate concerns the year 2021, you do not say anything about becoming them for the years 2021 and 2022. Will Cahors' contracts, yes or no, be reinstated by the Government? Moreover, who will bear the cost of abolishing 10 billion euros of production taxes? The regions? Or the state, through compensation to the regions? On all these amounts, you remain silent. The form of the document reveals very many holes in your budgetary perspective for the year 2021. These inaccuracies, not to say these inadequacies, cast doubt on your seriousness and ability to deal with this unprecedented crisis. I now wish to turn to the bottom. Looking at the European Commission's forecasts, adjusted a few days ago, France would be, together with Greece, Finland and Croatia, one of the only countries in the European Union whose GDP will be, by the end of 2021, more than 3 points lower than its level in 2019. Three points of GDP are a lot: more than 75 billion euros worth of wealth less than in 2019. By comparison, at the end of 2021 Germany's GDP would be one percentage point lower than it had at the end of 2019. She would be three times less affected than us. These figures are of course only forecasts, which should be taken with caution, but they should still alert you and encourage you to get into "emergency" mode. Waiting for August 24 to present your recovery plan that will not be implemented until the end of 2020 is unreasonable. Spain took less than a month to create a basic income for Spaniards, especially young people! And Germany presented its emergency plan on 3 June, almost two months ago, which includes a part to revive demand, which was unimaginable in addition to Rhine in view of the doctrine that prevailed for fifty years. Minister, among all these emergencies, youth should be your priority. The 700000 young people who will enter the labour market in September must not start their working lives with a period of unemployment. It is true that you are announcing measures to encourage companies to recruit young people, but the documents you have given us do not show any budget line for this purpose. On the other hand, for the young people whom the companies would not have recruited despite the prospect of their contributions being reduced, you will not set up a solidarity net.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u158	What about the PLFR3? Look at the credit openings!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u159	Don't worry, rapporteur-general, I have studied them well. Instead, answer my question: Will young people be able to receive the RSA – active solidarity income? No.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u160	That is not the choice we have chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u161	Will they be entitled to unemployment benefits? Neither, because they didn't work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u162	We prefer to value the work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u163	Will young people be able to benefit again from the first job search aid, which you abolished in 2019, while it allowed them to receive up to 550 euros per month? Mr rapporteur-general, you have not planned any measures to financially support young people who leave university and find themselves in the labour market, apart from the meal at CROUS – the regional centre for academic and school works – at 1 euro. You don't give them any help, in euros ringing and stumbling.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u164	That's not true! 400 million for learning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u165	You forget the poor young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u166	[[Applause on the SOC benches and some of the GDR benches]] If you really want to help young people, restore help looking for the first job for six months! This will provide them with up to 550 euros per month and will allow them not to end up without a penny in September. As far as the university is concerned, you gave us a document this morning, two minutes before the beginning of the session! That's right, you've released a few credits but they will be very insufficient to take over the additional 35,000 bachelors of this year, for which you haven't opened enough places for September and who will compete with students who, without being able to find a job, will decide to study one more year at the university. Neither this budgetary policy debate nor the PLFR3 provide answers to these questions, less than one month from the beginning of the year. In the economic and social field, you have praised the plans you have drawn up. I do not dispute the existence of business support plans but what have you decided to relaunch the demand by households? Our economic model is that 60% of our wealth comes from domestic consumption, 20% from exports and 20% from investments. If you do not fuel the engine of domestic consumption, our economy will not restart, regardless of the quality of the aeronautics and automotive support plans. To the Socialist and related group, we offered to grant families, in particular recipients of social minimums, a direct aid of 300 euros per month, plus 100 euros per child. You refused, even if you gave them exceptional help. However, Germany, which is not used to supporting the request, immediately granted aid of 300 euros per child, due to the urgency. I would have liked France to draw inspiration from this example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u167	PLFR2!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u168	In addition, we have seen a form of forced savings for three months, as households with the highest resources have not been able to spend as much as usual during periods of confinement. However, you do not propose any innovative mechanism to mobilise this savings in the service of economic recovery. As far as unemployment insurance is concerned, all the Members on the left of this House have asked you to give up the reform of unemployment. The Prime Minister finally committed himself to the social partners to postpone it, but what was not our disappointment that the decree did not correspond to the commitments he had made! Thus, your draft decree plans to reduce to four months the minimum period of membership of the unemployment insurance scheme in order to benefit from the renewal of the rights, as opposed to six months earlier. But, before the reform, the minimum duration was one month! You did not return to the previous regime, contrary to the commitments the Prime Minister made to the social partners. Finally, we have great fears for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is now expected that the date of payment of company contributions will be extended to three months. But how can they do so when economic activity has not resumed its normal course? On this point, we need a response from the Government, which cannot simply address the leaders, however important it may be. A real recovery plan requires a course and a coherent package. We have proposed that you launch the climate premium, which will reduce energy bills by 500 euros per year, make local building companies work and reduce CO2 emissions. You refused. We have proposed a strategic plan built around four key sectors: agriculture, health, transportation and energy. You refused. We have proposed that you support the bill that we have tabled to protect our SMEs from investors outside the European Union. You refused. We have offered you a conference to finance the crisis. You refused. We have proposed that you condition state aid in the context of the crisis. You refused. We offered to distribute masks free of charge, possibly with a quota per capita. You refused. [[Applause on the SOC benches and several GDR benches]] All these refusals impinge on the purchasing power of households. This social encroachment will slide towards an economic encroachment because the recovery will be much slower.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u169	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u170	The debate on the direction of public finances is taking on a particular dimension this year, in particular in order to chart a peak path in response to the crisis that we are experiencing. Before we look into future budget texts, let us take a look in the mirror: 2019, which was the last full year before the outbreak of the health crisis, testifies to the efforts, improvements or in this case the lack of improvement in public finances during the first three years of this quinquennium. We will mention it this afternoon at the final reading of the budget settlement bill: in short, the state of public finances before the current crisis was not healthy enough to allow us to cope with the shock, which the IDU and independent group has been saying for three years. The recovery is incomplete, despite a favourable situation during the first three years of the mandate. Thus, despite a fairly favourable economic environment since 2017, our public finances have not recovered significantly, as confirmed by the Court of Auditors in its report on the state and outlook for public finances for 2019, in which it refers to an unfinished recovery. The efforts made have been absorbed in the reduction of the compulsory levies that you have initiated and which we have supported. Then the situation worsened following the social movements of autumn 2018 and the decline in revenues was not accompanied by sufficient control of public expenditure to allow France to keep control of its budgetary choices. The review of the Government's public finance recovery strategy since 2017 attests to the fact that it has essentially delayed the recovery effort over the last two years of the quinquennium. The objectives of the economy were well mentioned but without specifying the avenues or measures to achieve them. We have therefore approached this crisis in an unfavourable financial situation, where debt and deficit are at high levels, which has prevented us from having sufficient financial room for manoeuvre to deal with it. Unfortunately, the crisis occurred, caused by the pandemic. It affected all the countries of the world and in particular France, in 2020. The consequences for our country are terrible for both the economy and public finances and our citizens. According to the Government's latest forecast, the level of the government deficit is expected to reach 11.4 percentage points of GDP compared to 2.2 in the original Finance Act for 2020. Public debt as a percentage of GDP would grow to more than 121% of GDP, an increase of almost €270 billion. These historical levels had never been achieved. This deterioration is due to the decline in revenues following the economic shock, but also to the rise in public expenditure resulting from the measures adopted to support the economy. It is necessary to give back to Caesar what belongs to him: the Government has reacted quickly and has been able to adapt the measures for preserving the economic fabric and employment to the rise of the ground. Thus, the scheme of partial unemployment was welcomed by all the players in the economic world. However, the strategy and the recovery plan are still waiting. The Prime Minister announced the mobilization of EUR 100 billion over two years to redress the French economy. All right! However, the precise content of this recovery plan is still not known at a time when time is running out because we have just entered a new phase: it is no longer a question of slewing the country's economy but of stimulating it in a targeted and massive way. This plan is expected to be submitted on 24 August, which means that it will only be effective as of 1 January. It's very late. We need a recovery plan now, not in six months. It is today that we must invest and propose concrete solutions to our country's economic actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u171	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u172	If you had anticipated the presentation of this plan, the economic actors could have prepared themselves for it so that the effects would be felt as soon as possible, without a fall in activity in France. Our economic recovery potential is at stake. Some countries in the world have experienced a fairly strong economic recovery despite the threat of a second wave. It would be desirable for us to be part of those proactive countries. However, the strategy envisaged for 2021 suggests an uncertain recovery. The Government seems to be looking forward to an economic rebound and growth of over 8 per cent. This scenario seems optimistic when we know that many factors remain uncertain for forecasting beyond 2020. That is why the litany of forecasts for 2021, whether it be the deficit or the debt, seems to us to be barren because of the lack of visibility. The future finance law must not be a flow of expenditure, even if it was necessary to open the valves during the crisis. The debate on the reduction of the public deficit and debt is suspended during this exceptional period, but we will have to remain vigilant and serious about the use of the money from the recovery plans, otherwise we would continue to fuel a vicious circle of more than thirty years, the debt of today being the tax that future generations will pay. From now on, our debt no longer allows us to meet all demands. It is the disadvantage of having delayed efforts to reduce public spending: choices will have to be made and the sectors most in need of public money will have to be targeted. Thinking about new tax resources could be a way to support our public finances in this period, including the financial transaction tax, which had been amended and which has become a subject for reflection at European level. It should be broader than that existing in France, integrating intraday transactions and stock derivatives. The plan negotiated this weekend by Europe can be seen as a step forward for European integration, including the creation of a mutualised debt. France will receive some €40 billion in grants. However, in addition to the announcement effects, we note some negative points. Thus, the many discounts that have been granted to some States on their participation in the Union's 2021-2027 budget will increase our own contribution. In addition, all the tools devised by the European Commission to reorient the Union's economic and commercial policy have been undermined, including the solvency instrument and the health programme. Without inflation, the budget of the common agricultural policy – CAP – falls, which harms French agriculture. And there is still a big question because if the EU's own resources, such as the carbon tax at borders, were not available on time, the subsidies would be reimbursed by the states in proportion to their gross national wealth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u173	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u174	European solidarity is, of course, a principle to be defended. However, it must be borne in mind that national interests are a reality. This plan is therefore more a plea for a new way of governance in Europe than anything else. In short, it is not enough to spill billions of euros: these liquidity injections need to expand our businesses and increase investment in our country. Let us not forget that innovation is one of the keys to economic recovery. We must therefore consider ways to increase private and public investment in our country. You remain, Minister, until the end of the quinquennium to find ways to revive growth and get our country out of its chronic and deadly deficit. We will always be there to take this difficult ridge path.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u175	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u176	We all appreciate the difficulty we have in discussing the direction of public finances for the year 2021, in such an uncertain context. There will be, no longer doubt, a before and a after -19. The pandemic crisis has led governments in many countries to choose drastic health measures. For them to be necessary, they have had an impact on economic activity. This is particularly the case in France, a country which has inevitably experienced a sharp slowdown and where certain sectors of activity remain seriously disrupted. From a strict budgetary point of view, this situation has led to an unprecedented deterioration in public accounts, due to the double effect of the massive loss of public revenues and the cost of measures taken to try to contain the crisis. This episode and the economic recovery, of which we do not know what form it will take, will obviously have a lasting effect on public finances. In particular, we know that the political choices that have been made since March, as well as those made in the coming months, will have an impact, by their magnitude and volume, on the shape of this recovery and will in part condition the future economic profile. Before we try to project ourselves in 2021, let's look back. Contrary to what we sometimes hear, France did not approach this crisis with restored public finances, even though the economic situation was, at this time, relatively favourable. In 2019, the government deficit stood at 3%, compared to 2.3% in 2018: it is therefore difficult to see an improvement, even by integrating the transformation of the CICE and the decrease in the expenses which represent 0.9 percentage points of GDP. Above all, it should be remembered that without the relatively favourable macroeconomic context then, the deficit would have been significantly higher. At the same time, spending continued to grow at a faster pace than the previous year – 1.8%, three times the target of 0.6%. As a result, in 2019 the structural deficit was not reduced to 2.2 points of GDP. We are far from the medium-term target set at -0.4 percentage points of GDP by the Public Finance Programming Act 2018-2022. What do these numbers say? Simply that our country has addressed the health crisis with insufficiently restored policy margins: it has not benefited from the relatively favourable economic period of previous years. I wanted to make this reminder, because these elements tend to be obscured by the magnitude of the shock caused by the current crisis. In saying this, I do not underestimate the difficulties that there was in pursuing such a policy at the time, nor the will that would have been expected. To measure the effects of these factors, it is sufficient to compare the forecasts and provisions of the original finance law with the three budget collectives adopted since then. For example, the public deficit for 2020 was initially projected at just over EUR 50 billion and the third draft amending finance law foresees that it will amount to EUR 250 billion. The cessation of much of the economic activity will, of course, result in a fall in tax revenues, and thus in the resources of the State. Government estimates confirm this well, with a loss of government revenue of nearly 135 billion, which accounts for about two thirds of the increase in the deficit to 11.5 per cent of GDP. This increase is also the result of the support mechanisms that the Government has put forward in its three amending financial laws. Their direct impact on the government deficit is estimated at over $57 billion. In total, in the face of the urgency, the State has played the role of the ultimate insurer of the economy and income, which the Libertés et territoires group welcomes. Other countries have done the same, as ordinary rules for the conduct of public finances within the euro area have necessarily been suspended. All these factors will have long-term effects on public finances. The outlook for the second half of 2020, and a fortiori for 2021, remains very uncertain. Economists' analyses diverge. Three scenarios are emerging: that of a catch-up, that of a limited loss and finally that of a persistent weakness. Each is distinguished by the magnitude of the activity rebound after 2020 and the degree of recovery of the economy in the medium and long term. Today, the Government expects a rebound of 8 per cent of GDP in 2021, excluding the impact of the upcoming recovery plan. GDP in 2021 would therefore remain about 4% below its 2019 level. You're betting on a full-term rebound hypothesis. Let's hope so. It should be noted, however, that the return of growth alone will not lead to the restoration of our finances. The Court of Auditors, for its part, considers that such an assumption is optimistic, while recalling that the convalescence of public finances will, at best, be gradual. While the deficit could fall quite rapidly in the event of a vigorous rebound, debt would still be higher, after ten years, than its pre-crisis level. However, France cannot let its debt flow without being exposed to major difficulties in the medium and long term. Thus the risk of rising interest rates throughout the euro area or in the most indebted countries weighs on our future. It is in this context that we call for vigilance. We must initiate a revival while ensuring that the budget is sound, even if it may seem contradictory. We have learned of the Government's willingness to contain the debt resulting from the crisis in a specific structure. Can you, minister, tell us its constituents and their amount? We don't know. While this measure has the merit of distinguishing the share of debt that falls under Covid-19, the total amount of debt will not be affected. If your project is to repay this share of the debt by a new extension of the CRDS, could it not be considered a tax increase that does not say its name? It is in this perspective that we must, in the next recovery budget, ensure the means of our ambitions and limit the use of debt. We must therefore ask ourselves the question of the exceptional participation of some in the national solidarity effort. The equation becomes even more complicated if we consider that we must urgently begin the recovery without waiting. Forecasters point to the start of the wave of business failures in the fourth quarter of 2020. The same points to an increase in the number of job seekers by 1 million by 2021, as well as the long-term weakening of entire sections of our economy, even the most successful. This is why it is urgent to safeguard high-value jobs in our territories at all costs, as they are essential for maintaining their attractiveness and for the overall strength of the economy and social life. We see this as an opportunity for the transition of our economy. The Liberties and Territories Group believes that the revival we are calling for must reconcile economic ambition with the ecological imperative. This is a historic opportunity, thanks to the amounts mobilized, to prevent further crises by accelerating the ecological transition through a green recovery plan. In his policy statement, the Prime Minister outlined a €100 billion recovery plan, probably spread over two years. We have since learned that 40 billion will come from the European Recovery Plan, which we welcome. Twenty billion would be spent on the ecological transition, without knowing exactly how much thermal renovation of buildings, how much green technologies, how much quality food will be financed at this stage. We welcome this approach but note that for the time being it is limited to 20% of the overall envelope, while the European plan foresees a 30% share. In other words, will these amounts, while significant, be enough to take the ecological turn so announced and to make France the most decarbonised economy in Europe? The question is asked. These measures cannot be part of the recovery plan alone. Thus, according to the Institute of Climate Economics, as part of an effective low carbon strategy, EUR 9 billion per year is needed for construction, transport and energy. Are you ready to commit to such an envelope? The question is also raised. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Debt for the ecological transition is, we are convinced, a sound, rational and effective debt. A green recovery plan could support hundreds of thousands of jobs. Today, the conditions are in place for a successful recovery that is different from the one that followed the 2008 crisis. The French want it, we are ready for it. We're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u177	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u178	The exercise we are carrying out is intended to enable us to see more clearly, for the coming months, in the situation of extreme distress in which all the economies and societies of the world are plunged. I doubt that we can achieve a quality view by beginning by saying, as the minister has done, that it is possible to restore the level of activity in 2020 by 2022. During the last global crisis in 2008, we lost three points of national wealth and took four years to return to the previous level. Therefore – and without making any qualitative remarks on what the economic restart could be – it is unlikely that we will recover, within two years, the eleven lost points. Similarly, I have not heard anything about the consequences of the various shocks to come. The first is that of the 700000 young people who enter the labour market without any guarantee of the employment they will be able to find. It is however popular consumption, especially that of young people who start their lives, which has the most important consequences for the development of the country's wealth. Secondly, no comment was made on the risk of private debt. However, ladies and gentlemen, and especially the esteemed colleague Gilles Carrez, the main problem in the world economy is not public debt: the one to which we lent is always the State! He resides in private debts, because if he leaves, if he goes bankrupt, you never find the private owner who owes you money. However, in all countries, and particularly in the euro area, the amount of private debt is a multiple of public debt. Yet, in your view, there is no risk that such a deflagration will occur and, in fact, no one imagines the means that should then be available. I remind you that the last time, President Sarkozy and a few others had had to take such measures urgently – which had proved to be quite effective from the point of view of the capitalist economy, since it is the one in which we live. But there, for the future, nothing at all: the shock will not happen, we can sleep quietly! We're wrong. The internal shock will be compounded by the external shock of the economic disaster threatening the United States of America. Indeed, while they have made the billboard run as never before in their history, the contraction of the global market that will result from the crisis in the United States of America cannot spare us. Finally, there is nothing to say about the cancellation of the debt. Dear colleague Gilles Carrez, we will see who of you or I is right, but for me, the question of whether the debt will be cancelled does not even arise: it will be. The only question is how the cancellation will take place: will it be done in a civilised manner – in other words, will the decisions taken allow the debt, which is now in the chests of the European Central Bank, to be cancelled without any cost to anyone, which would restore a breathing capacity to the states to intervene in the aftermath of the crisis – or in a wild way? This would happen in the event of a collapse of private creditors, if they could not repay the debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u179	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u180	What I am saying does not concern distant horizons of international trade: as of next December, companies that have contracted state-guaranteed loans will have to repay them. But I guess I won't learn anything from anyone in this assembly by announcing that a number of these companies have already planned to put their assets aside and not to pay the debt – which, ultimately, will be repaid by the state. And don't rely on banks to be vigilant about repayments! They will focus on maintaining the financial capacity of those who, until now, are their clients. I will go so far as to argue that they may even sometimes recommend procedures for the payment of their debt by the State and that no one here can approve. Nor do the forecasts mention the consequences of the climate crisis. She doesn't exist! Nothing is said, for example, about its material consequences. Yet we all know what climate change is causing, just go to the south of the country to see the consequences of the diluvian rains. In short, there will be no break, on the one hand, nothing to repair and therefore no additional expenditure on public infrastructure, and on the other hand nothing to repay for banks and private insurance companies, no impact on their finances. There will also be no health problems related to climate change – it is hardly known that chikungunya has arrived in the south of France. And everything with the avenger... Nor is there any assessment of the additional burden that will be placed on France's budget because of the grand historic agreement reached after four days of negotiations. The French, good stuffing turkeys, will finally pay for all the items! They will have to pay for the additional discount that has been granted to others,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u181	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u182	...the most scandalous of which is the one granted to the Netherlands, which annually steals from other European countries nearly 10 billion taxes that companies pay there rather than in their country of origin. Although they have the second budgetary surplus across Europe, they will benefit from a discount of almost 2 billion on their contribution to the European budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u183	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u184	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u185	It's a shame! In the end, it is on our backs that all this will weigh. In any event, as has been said, the result of this negotiation is that we will repay either through our contribution as a nation-state – which accounts for 17% of Europe's budget – and therefore additional expenses that are not included in your forecasts, or through own resources, which only naive people can think that they will not ultimately be paid by someone! I am naturally in favour of increasing own resources, and I cannot forget that they initially represented 60% of the revenue from the European budget, with only 40% coming from state contributions. Today we are in the opposite situation. And if we have to go into the details of these own resources, let us look, for example, at the taxes that will rightly weigh on plastic. They will cost the French 1 billion euros, but who will pay them? Is it the state, the producers, the communities? There are many holes in the explanations that have been provided to us and in the presentations that are made, that is not reasonable. Who invests in France? You never ask yourself the question! The country's largest investor is local authorities. Therefore, if there were to be a stimulus plan – a plan that is not mentioned in your budget forecasts – its basic structure would necessarily be based on the municipalities, who are the only ones able to identify needs and suggest ways to provide them. Under these conditions, the municipalities should therefore be the first to benefit from an additional amount of funding, allowing them to distill in the right place, by dripping, the finances we need to restart the economy. But this does not appear in your forecasts. Once again, we'll only talk about public investment. Yet it is private investment that is a problem in this country! How is it that, since 2009, dividends have increased by 70% while private investment has fallen by 5%? What is this capitalism of good for nothing, not even patriots, who do not invest? When STX France was put on sale, it was necessary to rely on Italian capital: is there no money in this country? Today, even when we are talking about developing rail investment, France Rail Industry, which produces rail, is entrusted to an English company. Among all those who proposed to buy the company, not a single French company, not a single euro of French capital! What is this parasitic capitalist class, unable to come to the rescue of the homeland when it needs everyone's efforts to re-start the machine? Yes, I call my indignation. It is not normal that, with 5300 billion savings, we cannot find enough to meet the country's needs. It is not normal, while 1700 billion are placed in life insurance, of which 50% are invested abroad, that we cannot find enough to meet the needs of the country without constantly weeping in the giron of the state, to demand from it all kinds of discounts – which we are told will eventually return to private investment. Where do CAC 40's revenues come from private investment in our country? Nowhere! My last words will be for this so-called historic agreement which, it seems, has mutualized debts. That's not true! What has been mutualized is the guarantee to repay debts, which will be paid by each of the States that will have to borrow. And we, French, will pay more than we have received, because our contribution to the European budget will be higher than the results and the current demand. Moreover, we do not need European borrowing to borrow at a negative rate: to tell that Eurobonds will be a facility for France is a pure illusion! Finally, and I will conclude on this point, you have not presented the link between the cuts in the European budget and the subsidies you will receive: if the CAP falls, how much will the agricultural budget increase? Where does this figure in the finance bill? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] That is why the Members of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group of the European People's Party come out of all this very much, very worried.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u186	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u187	We approach this debate by noting that our public finances are seriously deteriorating. The deficit level, estimated at 11.4% in PLFR 3, has increased by more than 9% compared to the original finance law. As for public debt, it increased by more than 20%: estimated at 98.7% of GDP under the original finance law, it was estimated at 120.9% in PLFR 3. And while the public finance programming law for the period 2018-2022 predicted that the public deficit and debt would be respectively 1.2% and 94.2% of GDP in 2021, we are moving away from the virtuous trajectory of public finances that we were still following recently. We can therefore regret that a comprehensive recovery plan was not presented before this debate, in order to ensure greater visibility of the cost of the executive stimulus measures and their impact on public finances. During the eight weeks in which France was confined, digital was the preferred tool for work, exchanges and educational continuity. This brings us to a conclusion: while our citizens and businesses use the services of this sector, which has proved to be poorly affected by the crisis, the digital giants are still brilliantly elucidating tax in France. Despite a supply-side fiscal policy, the executive struggles to bring such large sums of money into the State funds in times of economic fragility. The other important issue we must bravely tackle is that of tax avoidance in all its forms. Already in 2019, the Government's efforts had made it possible to recover 10 billion euros, thanks in particular to the improvement of fraud detection tools, such as datamining – data search – the installation of the "Bercy lock", or the collection of information published on social networks and retail platforms between individuals. While we welcome these efforts, we recall that tax losses due to illegal practices are estimated at between 60 and 80 billion euros per year in France. That is to say, the magnitude of the phenomenon and its consequences on our public finances. Today, it is becoming necessary to fight more at European level, in particular with the adoption of tax directives and the introduction of renovated tools – as has been pointed out recently. In addition to fighting wealth transfers to other countries with more advantageous tax regimes, we also need to clean up our tax system with several niches in the area of corporate tax. I am thinking in particular of my colleague Émilie Cariou's work on the "Copé niche" and the mother-daughter diet. The Government's supply-side tax policy, launched from the beginning of the quinquennium and aimed at reducing the corporate tax rate to 25 per cent, must be accompanied by full control of the various tax shields that exist in our law. With regard to economic recovery, after the rebound in May, we are seeing a further increase in activity in June, although some sectors, such as accommodation and catering, are still struggling to recover. While the stability of compulsory levies, taxes and social contributions can be agreed in a context of recovery – particularly for our SMEs, TPEs and artisans – the support provided by the Government through the recovery plans must be accompanied by strong environmental and social requirements. Public authorities cannot rely solely on the goodwill of companies, while the ecological transition of our economy is necessary to restore confidence in households, the key driver of economic recovery, but also to guide business investment and to begin a sustainable recovery of our public finances. As can be seen from the results of the last municipal elections and the conclusions of the civic climate convention, it is above all the demand of our fellow citizens. That is why the EDS Group has already made a number of proposals, particularly with regard to the solidarity tax, which is the foundation of our republican pact. In exceptional circumstances, exceptional contribution: that of certain actors needs to be studied, as was done following the 2008 crisis. Under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy, whose shadows are constantly hovering over this House and elsewhere, François Fillon's government had thus created an exceptional tax on the capitalisation reserve of insurance companies. This citizens' demand for a sustainable transition must be taken into account now in the recovery plan and in the 2021 finance bill. This is why the EDS Group reiterates here the need to support massively the investments of local authorities in the ecological and solidarity transition through at least EUR 5 billion per year over three years for mobility, transport, urban and rural development, renovation of buildings, change of agricultural model and the exit of pesticides, as well as for the protection of the biodiversity of resources and soils. Proximity allows for innovative, agile and territorially appropriate projects. Public procurement is a formidable lever in this regard. The elected representatives are ready to act, particularly in the Hauts-de-France. I was able to see this in my constituency at a meeting with Xavier Bertrand in Steenvorde. Let's empower communities for immediate action. We also believe that it is necessary to recast the taxation of wealth and capital and to strengthen their progressivity in order to ensure that the fruits of prosperity and the wealth accumulated contribute more equitably to the collective effort of national solidarity. The re-integration of liquidity into a wealth tax, the taxation of dividends from tax havens, the enhancement of the single flat-rate levy, the questioning of favourable tax niches for the wealthy, as well as those encouraging dependence on fossil fuels, the transformation of inheritance taxes and property and property taxation are now urgent measures and social justice. As an autonomous branch is about to emerge and an ambitious recovery plan is expected, let us not ignore the revenues needed to rethink our growth and society. While the health crisis has led to an increase in public debt of more than 20 per cent, our level of debt before the crisis was already far too high. The various public policies implemented successively have indeed degraded the state of our public finances. "Make good policies for me, I'll make good finances for you," said Baron Louis in his time. If man belongs to another era, the quotation remains valid. The link between public policies, their application and the state of our public finances is clearly established. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals – SDGs – set by Agenda 2030 are the right tools to rethink our public policies, their effectiveness and hence the resilience of our development model to crises. I remain convinced that this agenda is in line with the current economic, social and ecological priorities, as evidenced by the results of the recent survey commissioned by the 4D association on the perception of the SDGs by the general public. The number of French people declaring that they know exactly what this is about has doubled since 2019, with 57% of them now stating that they are ready to adapt their way of life. Within the population, the most demanding are our young people, our children – they seem a little forgotten in your plans. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] Colleagues, you know my commitment on this subject. Today, more than ever, these objectives require high-level political will to give a strong signal to our citizens and to lay the foundations for a resilient society. Since I am speaking in the context of the public finance policy debate, I would like to call for the sustainable development goals to be taken into account in the construction of our public policies and for them to be integrated into the budgetary process so that the budget for 2021 is an appropriate response to our economy's need for ecological transition, to social concerns and to the environmental emergency as well as to the expectations of our youth. Let's not leave anyone on the side.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u188	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u189	The public finance policy debate is an important step in the budgetary debate every year and an interesting exercise in several respects, in particular because it allows us to heighten our sights and re-establish the state of our public finances over the long term. In the context of the health and economic crisis that we are experiencing today, this exercise takes on a particular meaning. To find out where we're going, we need to know where we're from. Even before we discuss the direction to be given to our public finances, this popular maxim repeatedly used must make us reflect on the margin of manoeuvre of the state when we approach this crisis. The Court of Auditors, in its report on the state and outlook for public finances, considers that France did not address the crisis with restored public finances. In 2019, the debt ratio was stabilized at just over 98% of GDP, the structural deficit was 2.2 points of GDP and the level of public expenditure was more than 55 points of GDP. We can only share the observation: France could and should have, for many years – because this problem is not a long time ago – undertaken structural reforms to reduce the burden of public expenditure and debt. However, this fact must be relativized in the light of the social context and the reforms undertaken by the Government over the past three years to reduce compulsory levies and restore oxygen to the French economy and purchasing power to the French. As the crisis hits our economy, the Government has taken the necessary emergency measures very quickly to protect households and preserve businesses and employment. We congratulate him. Now, the time has come for billions of euros to be revived, and some believe that the money has become free, or that the accumulated debts will be cancelled or converted into perpetual debt. This public expenditure is obviously necessary, but two thoughts must be borne in mind: controlling the sustainability of public debt must remain a priority, and the billions of euros announced must be used with the aim of efficiency. In this regard, the Government's guidelines for the budget for 2021 are good: absolute priority given to employment and recovery, including investment in accelerating the ecological transition, strengthening the budgets of the Regalian ministries, support for our most fragile citizens and finally revival from the territories, which are the essential link to restore the long-awaited bond of trust so that households consume the savings generated during confinement and that companies commit their investment plans without delay. These indications are in the right direction and we welcome them – my colleague Lise Magnier will have the opportunity to come back – but the recovery plan is not yet known. It will be presented to the Council of Ministers on August 24th before being included in the 2021 Finance Bill. The Action Together Group will be able to propose and will forward to the Prime Minister, as soon as next week, its ideas for refining the construction of this plan. But on this occasion, Minister Delegate, allow me to express our reservations about the legislative vehicle used for this stimulus plan. When we looked at successive amending finance bills, we were already many on these benches calling for immediate stimulus measures. Time is running out for economic actors in our territories, who cannot wait until 2021 to benefit from the first measures. On this point, can some of them, contained in the PLF for 2021, have a retroactive effect? Finally, we would like the Government to provide some clarification on the macroeconomic forecasts on which it intends to base its budget. The report you have given us looks forward to a rapid recovery in growth. However, the Court of Auditors, faithful to its own lexicon, considers such a hypothesis "optimistic". As a reminder, you want to build the budget for 2021 on the assumption of a GDP rebound of 8% in 2021. If this were to happen, however, GDP would remain about 4% below its 2019 level. But the International Monetary Fund is significantly more pessimistic. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. and some benches of the LaREM group]] Similarly, according to your forecasts, the recovery in household consumption in 2021 would be 8% and business investment would be 20%. Of course we want to believe in it, but we are wondering. Could you, Minister Delegate, tell us a little more about these macroeconomic forecasts? Is not their optimism such as to endanger the proper implementation of the budget for 2021 as it was built?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u190	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u191	We are therefore in time to open the debate on the state and social security budgets for 2021. We are starting from an unprecedented situation, linked to the pandemic, but also, it must be said, to the total financialization of our economy, which made another crisis inevitable, so much so that many social plans were already in the cards of several multinationals before the virus hit. It is important to recall this in order to take it into account in the future. Nothing should be the same as before. Everyone says so. We need a strong state capable of regaining control over its economy and responding to the country's needs and social and environmental emergencies. But how can this be achieved? With what means and levers to act on the economy? The debate is open. In this respect, the European Union's plan is of great concern to us because it will further weaken the state and our social model. You will sing everywhere that this agreement is historic because France will receive 40 billion euros of aid from the European Union. But what "structural reforms" – I translate: what austerity policy – will France have to implement in exchange? Similarly, how are we going to repay the money that the European Union borrows from the financial markets, not from a European Central Bank, which is to the absent subscribers? Let us remember that, every year, France repays €40 billion in interest on the debt. You must also explain to the French, Minister Delegate, that our country will lose aid from the European Union since the European budget will fall by 30 billion. The 1074 billion now announced are far from the 1300 billion expected. It is the CAP, health policies or research that are in line with the European Council. Finally, in order to obtain this so-called historic agreement, France had to agree to increase its annual contribution to the European Union budget in order to compensate for the decline in the contribution of other countries. Knowing that this contribution is now EUR 21 billion, how much will we have to pay next year? You can therefore, here, satisfy yourself with this historical plan: when you present the bill to the French, farmers, employees, you will find that a justified anger will be expressed. That is why we expect, above all, for our country and for social security, a budget for 2021 which breaks with these logics and finally meets the needs of our fellow citizens, a budget which allows us to live better, which secures jobs and purchasing power, which protects from disease, a budget which will finally take the necessary turn so that we can meet our climate commitments. There are two totally different logics that confront each other in our country. Yours, based on a policy of supply, continues to alleviate the taxes of capital, those of the richest. It is a logic of free and undistorted competition, whatever the cost to human beings and nature. "Nothing must be like before," we hear, but Minister Bruno Le Maire has just promised here that we would return to the level of wealth we had in 2019, before the pandemic. What wealth was he talking about? From the one which increased among shareholders in 2019 and which comes precisely from the exploitation of men and nature? Remember that in 2019, we saw a record distribution of dividends: 60 billion cash was paid to the shareholders of CAC 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u192	Yes! It's not on Book A!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u193	And, following the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth, the purchasing power of France's 500 largest fortunes increased by 6%. Is that what you promise us for 2022, to return to the great inequalities that have struck our country? [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] Remember that the year 2019 was also marked by the anger of pensioners in the face of the increase of the CSG, by that of the yellow vests, those French who felt invisible and could not afford to close their end months, by that of the white coats that once again saw the hospital budget fall, the maternity and emergency services closed. So, by 2022, you promise us to return to that situation. It is clear that we Communist Members do not want to.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u195	Nothing has to be like before: 2022 must not revive the French what they experienced in 2019. We therefore propose a completely different logic than yours: the one that protects a wealth, the only one that counts, the human wealth, that of biodiversity, that given by nature. We propose you to support demand rather than supply, to invest in public services and in a solidarity and citizen industry, to secure professional paths by guaranteeing every citizen a decent and decent job, training and wage that allows him to live throughout his life, rather than promising everyone a life of unemployment. This choice of historical society, we must do it now, in preparing the budget for 2021. We must invest heavily in our public services, in our industry and in the ecological transition, but also create jobs and train employees. Many associations, trade unions and political parties, like the one to which we adhere, say: 1 million jobs are to be created by 2024 if we invest to take the ecological turn. This is a completely different prospect than your promise to see the elimination of 1 million jobs by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u196	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u197	We must therefore make the opposite of the choices that are yours for our country. It also involves giving employees much more power, both in the public and in the private sector. See how brave, brave men and women were during the crisis, daring to face the virus and putting themselves at risk to serve all! Nurses, garbagemen, cleaners, transporters, farmers, teachers, police and gendarmes, civil servants: they showed during the crisis their sense of responsibility and duty for the country. They must therefore be trusted in order to redress the country, and not to the pension funds and other financial funds that will not fight to reindustrialize France or to save the climate. That is why we urge you to finally tackle the cost of capital and finance. Stop reducing the taxes on capital to report them to the French! That's what you want to do by removing production taxes paid by businesses and paid to communities, almost 8 billion euros...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u198	Hey, come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u199	... that businesses will no longer pay but that the state budget will have to compensate communities – knowing that "state budget" means "household budgets", because the state will have to make savings. It is therefore necessary to change software completely and to get new recipes. The solidarity tax on wealth – ISF –, the flat tax and all the gifts you have given to the richest, we pay them. It is this logic that needs to be changed. You tell us that you will not increase taxes, but you have already planned to increase one of them by extending the existence of the CRDS until 2031, which was only planned until 2024. This is, in practice, a tax that will increase. For our part, we propose that you go to find revenue as early as 2021 by attacking multinationals that continue to make tax optimization, asking for an additional contribution to insurances that do not respond to the crisis, by increasing the tax on financial transactions that we talk about a lot but that we do not see happening, by taxing GAFA – Google Amazon Facebook Apple – a project that, in the same way, gives rise to many discussions without any realization. We want a real recovery plan, which does not revive an old system but is in breach of the liberal policies of the past.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u200	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u201	It is in this spirit that we propose that you condition the aid to businesses so that they become involved in employment and the environment. This means that it is necessary to flatten the EUR 50 billion in general contribution relief and the tens of billions of tax niches, such as the Copé niche, to finally pursue a policy to help create jobs and control our means of production. In short, we must finally be revolutionary, as was the case in 1946 when we created social security and secured the lives of all the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u202	Very good reference!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u203	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] We must imagine the social security of the 21st century, Monsieur de Saint-Martin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u204	It's Mr. Saint-Martin! There's no particle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u205	The one that will protect every moment of the lives of our fellow citizens, not only health and retirement, but also career paths and living standards. We want a social security system that finally takes care of tests, vaccines and masks for all. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] These will be the priorities of the Communist deputies during the consideration of the next finance bill and the next social security financing bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u206	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u207	This is the programme of a revolutionary candidate for the presidency of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u208	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u209	The public finance policy debate is Parliament's first meeting in the preparation of the annual budget. He spoke about public policies and the strategic direction to be given to State action. After taking place in an unprecedented context last year, when the great national debate was taking place, it is taking place this year under equally unheard of circumstances. At the end of the difficult months of our nation, it seems to me that this budgetary policy debate has a double tone. It certainly reflects the widespread deterioration of the economy and the many uncertainties for the future, but, recalling the robustness of the public power in its response to the crisis, it also conveys a message of hope and collective mobilization to draw a new path outlined by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. In the face of the crisis and the weakening of economies, the massive and rapid mobilization of public finances has enabled our country to stand up "no matter what it costs". Nearly 500 billion euros have already been budgeted since the beginning of the health crisis, not to mention the recovery plan: few times in history have been the moments during which the public authorities have mobilized with such intensity to support the economy, employment, local authorities, the health system, but also the most vulnerable publics. There was certainly no other option, given the recession that we are taking a little more action on a daily basis thanks to macroeconomic indicators: a GDP that is down by 11 per cent, an unemployment rate that may be above 10 per cent, not to mention debt, which could exceed 120 per cent of GDP. Let us not forget that this unprecedented capacity for intervention of the State has been made possible by the serious and sincere budgetary management that we have demonstrated in recent years. This is the result of an ambitious strategy to reduce compulsory levies and control public expenditure at all levels. This unprecedented effort has enabled us to break out of the excessive deficit procedure, stabilize public debt, reduce unemployment and restore purchasing power to our citizens. This effort has also enabled us to restore the margin for local and regional authorities and to finance emergency measures following the major debate. These years of collective discipline give us the legitimacy to deal with the crisis without entering into fiscal austerity or going back on our commitments. This course is the shield that has enabled us to preserve as much as possible the economic and social life of the nation; It is the compass that still has to guide us to build France of tomorrow's trust. Beyond building a post-covid-19 economy, the $100 billion recovery plan must be a strong response to new challenges. The return to normal activity could occur faster than expected. Indeed, it can be estimated that there will be a rebound in GDP from 2021 or 2022, with a surge in domestic demand and a recovery in productive investment. This recovery will also be reinforced by the stimulus plan and the transformation of our economic model that we will have to discuss in the context of the next finance bill. If, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his general policy statement, "crisiss are unique in that they play the role of revealing" our strengths and weaknesses, the response to the crisis must be up to the stakes. That is why I would like to welcome the investment in young people in reducing the cost of work, the creation of 300,000 pathways and integration contracts, or the doubling of places in civic service. In addition to youth, another priority of the future will be placed at the heart of the recovery: the ecological and solidarity transition, which is, as the Prime Minister said, "our business to all". More than €20 billion will be invested and directed towards the thermal renovation of buildings, local food, renewable energy and sustainable mobility. To monitor the roll-out of this recovery, we will have new steering and evaluation tools, such as the Green Budget, which will be used to measure the adequacy of our budgetary choices with our environmental objectives. Clearly, these innovations should not exempt us from being vigilant, especially with regard to the most fragile. That is why, in the coming months, I will be paying particular attention to the issue of over-indebtedness. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I have the feeling that this debate offers us the opportunity to compare our political plans and the ways forward. Sound finances and a consistent path are two necessary conditions. But we must add a third: trust. Economist Éloi Laurent says she is an "invisible institution" necessary for our life in society. On behalf of the Republic on the move, I have the feeling that the economic trajectory presented today is such that confidence will return very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u210	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u211	We cannot debate the direction of public finances for 2021 without addressing the question of the huge shock that the health crisis has represented for our country's public finances. Macroeconomic indicators are in the red, and this deterioration is, as we all know, very worrying for the future of our economy, which is about to go through an unprecedented crisis. It is too lightly discussed: the current figures are proof of this. Indeed, we are about to undergo a contraction of 11% of our GDP, against a pre-crisis forecast of growth of 1.3% for 2020. The government deficit is expected to be 11.4% of GDP. The sums in question are considerable, since we are talking about 222 billion euros of deficit for the state, 52 billion euros for social security and 30 billion euros for the pension system, which we will come back to later. Public debt is rising to more than 121 per cent of GDP, and public expenditure exceeds 66 per cent. Tax revenue losses are estimated at almost €70 billion. We are told that there will be a loss of about 800,000 jobs in 2020, which will increase the unemployment rate to 11.5 per cent in the coming year. These exceptional figures must, of course, be put on the account of the health crisis, the slowdown in the economy imposed by confinement, and now of an unprecedented recession. But these bad forecasts would not be as alarming if France's pre-crisis situation had not been so fragile. Unfortunately, even before the covid-19, the worm of the debt was already in the fruit. Indeed, while France experienced a favorable period between 2017 and 2019 and our economy could have benefited from it, our spending continued to increase. You never knew or, more precisely, never wanted to contain our deficit and our debt. Unfortunately, it was in this very unfavourable situation that we addressed the crisis. You have a great deal of responsibility in this situation of relative fragility vis-à-vis our neighbours. So rather than taking advantage of a favourable environment to undertake structural reforms and undertake efforts to contain our debt, we have allowed the opportunity to clean up our public finances. This poor French performance also explains that the crisis is affecting our country far more severely than many of its neighbours. It should be remembered that the contraction of German GDP is expected to be only 6.3%, and only 4.6% for Poland. To take a look at France before the covid-19 is to see that we were already the European champions of public expenditure, which represented 55.5% of GDP, compared to an average of 46% in Europe. We also had the first place in compulsory levies, almost 44% compared to 41% on the European average. The French deficit and debt figures were little more encouraging: we had one of the worst deficits in the euro area – 3% of GDP compared to 0.9% for the whole area – and our debt was almost 100% of GDP when Germany kept it at only 60%, and the European Union at 80.7%. Finally, as Gilles Carrez has brilliantly demonstrated, our debt is held two thirds by foreign interests, which poses an undeniable problem of sovereignty. This panorama is not brilliant. We did, however, set him up, month after month, to warn you. Our German neighbours are once again a good student and their management of public finances before and during the crisis must lead us to reflect. Because our neighbour across the Rhine has been able to cut public spending, he has been able to inject money into his economy in order to support it without being threatened by the over-indebtedness that France is likely to experience in the months and years to come. The German economy was thus able to benefit from a financial effort of 1000 billion euros, about 30% of its GDP, when France, in comparison, injected only 460 or 470 billion, or 19% of its GDP. The Minister for Economic Affairs mentioned a few moments ago a risk of a lag with Germany: yes, this risk is real. We are at the bottom of the pack at European level in view of the economic management of the crisis: we have been hit harder and we are recovering – or will recover – more slowly. In the first quarter, the French recession was the worst in the whole euro area, with a 5.8% fall in GDP. Germany lost only 2% of its GDP over the same period, followed closely by Austria at 2.5%. Spain and Italy, despite being severely affected by the crisis, fell by 5.2% and 4.7% of their GDP respectively. This state of affairs and these comparisons must warn us, as we are about to vote, this afternoon, for final reading, on a third amending finance bill. The support measures deployed since the beginning of the crisis were obviously necessary and we have all voted for them in a spirit of responsibility. But they cannot exempt us from designing an ambitious and effective recovery plan as soon as possible. On August 24th, it will be too late! On the other hand, this recovery will not be sustainable if we continue to rely on the endless increase in public debt. The outlook for the coming years has been disrupted by the crisis and the direction to be given to our public finances will be directly affected. First of all, debt cannot contribute sustainably to the financing of operating expenses, whether it is the payment of civil servants or social transfers. Debt financing – magic money! – is extremely risky in the long term, because if interest rates are currently playing in our favour, there is absolutely no guarantee that they will remain so low for as long as possible. Perpetual debt is an illusion; It would actually be a disaster by making us lose the confidence of our investors on a lasting basis. And relying on the uncertain recovery of growth to finance it would be a mistake, as the Court of Auditors pointed out. On our long-term situation, the Court of Auditors unfortunately recalls that, apart from interest charges, the structural deficit has not fallen since 2015. This crisis must therefore at all costs trigger an awareness: public spending must be reduced, as we repeat, and greater efforts must be made to clean up French public finances. Each new expenditure in one sector should and should be balanced and offset by a decrease in expenditure in another area. Finally, the fall in public spending will certainly no longer be possible through increases in compulsory levies which already stifle the French so much, as I mentioned a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u212	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u213	The surge must take place now, otherwise our economy may not recover. That is why the Members of the Group of the European People's Party The Republicans proposed stimulus packages as early as June, most of which were rejected by the Government and the majority. A stimulus and investment plan to start sustainable growth and get our country back on track: that's what we need. The announcement of a stimulus plan integrated into the 2021 Finance Bill is cause for concern. It means that our economy will still have to wait long months before concrete measures are taken to save it. Thousands of French people will suffer from this decision. Germany and Britain have already begun their recovery, and we will have to wait until the beginning of 2021!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u214	It's all right, Marquise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u215	And what about the reforms announced? The health crisis has halted consideration of the draft law establishing a universal pension scheme. Will the Government maintain an age measure, which is essential to preserve the retirement pensions of the French? Not a word about this in the context of this public finance policy debate. You promise that, despite the crisis, there will be no increase in compulsory levies. But the extension until 2024 of the contribution to the repayment of the social debt raises fears of a disguised co-vid tax. It is imperative that the Government assure us that crisis management will be temporary, that spending will be targeted and that the measures taken will not extend over time, so as not to have a lasting impact on our public finances. The crisis has, I hope, opened your eyes to the dangers of poorly managed public finances, a debt and a deficit that is allowed to run and public expenditure that is not being reduced. The effort will have to be thought over time, over the long term, as a work in depth based on a radical change of mind. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We are currently engaged in a race against time to accelerate recovery and ensure recovery. We need only rely on a rapid awareness by the Government of the immense task that awaits us all in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u216	All right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u217	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u218	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u219	This budgetary policy debate is special. First, it is based on a preparatory report from a government that is no longer. Secondly, it concerns the last budget which the majority will have to bear fully. Finally, the finance bill for 2021 will have to meet more than ever the social, environmental and economic demands after the yellow vest movement but especially after the health crisis of the Covid-19, with its economic and social consequences that hit our ultramarine territories, structurally more fragile than the hexagon. We could have a budgetary policy debate up to the situation if you finally stopped considering overseas as a budgetary variable for Bercy. Beyond their political affiliations, the French in our territories are very much disappointed by the treatment they have received over the past three years. They are disappointed by a comprehensive reform of economic aid to rushed and unconcerned enterprises, and by accounting tricks announcing false credit increases and transforming national solidarity into an ultramarine solidarity that brings about equalization towards the poorest of the least wealthy. What to say about the significant decrease in the appropriations of the single budget line dedicated to housing, the LBU, which has plunged – hastened! – the construction and public works sector, a major provider of jobs, in the worst situation in a decade? In the first quarter, in La Réunion, consultations for work were down 41 per cent after having already decreased 31 per cent in 2019. Yet there is a real need for housing in numbers. As everyone knows, decent housing is the minimum condition for the development of our families and equal opportunities from an early age. While in recent years, our ultramarine territories have experienced the highest rates of growth, in 2018 as in 2019 the growth and creation of wage-earning jobs have unfortunately declined. How can we not be questioned when the Court of Auditors points out, with regard to the implementation of the 2019 overseas budget, that if we compare the appropriations consumed and the appropriations opened, the differences are 272 million euros in commitment authorisations and 285 million euros in payment appropriations? In order to revive our long-suffering economies, we must act quickly and forcefully, there is an urgent need! The overseas housing plan presented last autumn must be implemented in all its parameters, as quickly as possible. We must support our agricultural sectors by maintaining and honouring the budgets dedicated to their diversification, in accordance with the announcements made by the President of the Republic last autumn, during his visit to La Réunion. I am referring to the programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity and to the fund of the Interdepartmental Committee on Overseas Affairs. It is essential to sustain our models. Despite the warnings, the various governments remain on promises of credit movements that no one sees coming. The crises associated with the movement of the yellow vests and then the covid-19 proved, however, that we could rely on our local producers, both in normal times and in the event of failure of food imports. We must speed up the deployment of the convergence and transformation plans signed last year. I regret, like most of my ultramarine colleagues, that they do not live up to the ambitions of the law on real equality overseas, resembling more an addition of objectives of the various ministries than projects that allow real convergence. It is also necessary to provide for the support of seniors in the overseas regions, who will experience demographic transitions much faster and more important than hexagon. In this respect, our territories must be examples for the whole country and must, of course, benefit from adaptations. Finally, while support for the economy is essential, many more battles have to be waged to face the chronic difficulties that, thousands of kilometres away, are still more glaring than in the hexagon. The fight against violence against women and the fight against alcohol abuse require more resources. Reimbursement on succession of the solidarity allowance for the elderly is no longer acceptable. The criteria for calculating survivors' pensions today make it very difficult for already socially vulnerable spouses. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Ministers, once again, your remarks do not seem to respond to the structural difficulties already experienced or to the crises which have aggravated the precariousness of the most fragile in our territories – I have a particular thought for our compatriots in Guyana and Mayotte. To live up to our values, Budget 2021 will have to respond to the challenges of the twenty-first century: social issues, those of the ecological transition and the blue economy. The ultramarine French, spread all over the world, ask only to be actors: it is up to you to finally take us into consideration next autumn. More than a stimulus plan, it is an emergency plan that the members of the Socialist and Related Group are waiting for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u221	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u222	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] My colleague Patricia Lemoine has presented with great accuracy the issues of the direction of public finances, the reasons for satisfaction and also the questions raised by the review of the policy report on public finances. I would also like to welcome, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, the historic European agreement reached by the President of the Republic following complicated negotiations. Whatever the populists say on all sides, this agreement is a real success for the European Union, which regains its full meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u223	Was it necessary to talk about populists?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u224	As has been said, the Members of the Group of the European People's Party welcome the main points on which the 2021 budget will be built and will be the basis for a proposal to draw up the recovery plan to be presented to us at the start of the year. Allow me to convey to you some simple but strong ideas which, in our view, are indispensable for the proper use of the EUR 100 billion announced. Our first conviction is that the recovery plan will have to deploy according to a clearly defined temporality: simple and immediate measures, on the one hand, to support our fellow citizens and to protect them from the great insecurity that threatens them in the short term; More structural measures, on the other hand, to transform our economic model and create wealth over time. I would point out that all simplification measures must be implemented immediately: it is a question of removing administrative blockages, irritants, these small standards and procedures which poison the lives of companies and which the PACTE law has not sufficiently targeted. This approach, based on two different levels of temporality, will allow us to re-create a bond of trust with our fellow citizens while reforming our productive apparatus in depth. Our second conviction, shared, as we know, by the Prime Minister and the Government, is that recovery will go through the territories. The desire to put the local level back at the heart of our economic and social policy must not be limited to declarations of intent. To translate it into action as quickly as possible, local and regional authorities will need to be given greater flexibility in the exercise of their competences and to improve the tools that have already proved their worth. I welcome the "bounce pack" presented on Monday by the Minister responsible for industry, Agnes Pannier-Runacher, to allow the development of 148 industrial territories throughout the national territory. This pack also has the added value of preserving skills, which brings me to our third conviction. The recovery plan should allow for the preservation of skills and encourage training, in particular for future jobs. In this sense, the strengthening of the budgets of the Regalian ministries is a welcome refocusing of State action: a strong and modern State is a prerequisite for the resumption of economic activity. Moreover, innovation, the modernization of our productive apparatus, the accumulation of scientific, technical, academic and cultural capital can only be promoted by strengthening certain pillars: transport, energy and communication networks, education, and health and safety systems. It is at the cost of reallocating public resources, in order to better target them, that we will be able to get on the path of innovation and wealth creation. Our fourth conviction is that we must see this crisis as an opportunity to modernise the productive apparatus and invest in tomorrow's economy. However, this modernization must be done intelligently: in the same way as forcible greening, which does not take into account the realities of the terrain and the globalized economic world, is dangerous for the survival of our enterprises, the modernization of the productive apparatus must be thought from the ground. We need to think from the point of view of the value chain so that the decarbonization of our economy does not take place for the benefit of China or India, the world's two largest polluters. As such, the Agir Group welcomes the announcement by the Government of the massive reduction in production taxes: it will give French companies new investment capacities. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. and several benches of the LaREM group]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is our road map for the recovery plan presented at the beginning of the year to contain tomorrow's economy while preserving today's economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u225	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u226	The phrase that I hear most often, at this time, in my constituency, is: "We're counting on you. The discussions on the street, the appointments in my permanence, the emails I receive all end with this hope, this exhortation, this message: "We rely on you. » Also, speaking this morning in this public finance policy debate for 2021 is bringing the voices of the thousands of people who rely on me, who rely on us. The moment is new: an economic crisis follows a health crisis, which unfortunately seems not to have said its last word; A new government team is set up, and I welcome the first steps. Behind the phrase "We rely on you", it is a need for course, protection, shield that is expressed in response to the orientation set out by the Prime Minister in his general policy statement: "We will not return to unity without greater attention to the most vulnerable of us. Clearly, the number one issue in the state budget for 2021 is to protect French and French people and restore confidence. The epidemic of covid-19 resulted in a heavy, perhaps not definitive, but already dizzying bill: - 11% of GDP, 10% unemployed, 110 billion additional public spending. The budget which we have to prepare must allow both to accompany the recovery and to anticipate any resurgence of a health crisis with very uncertain contours. For this, several caps can guide us. The first is the employment of French and French. The use of partial unemployment was massive and healthy during the health crisis: €30 billion was spent on it. Its extension to the strategic sectors, which are slow to recover, is essential. At this stage, EUR 8 billion is foreseen in the budget documents for this French-language security system: they are, in my view, indispensable for the preservation of everyone's employment and safety. However, the crisis has worsened the findings we have made over the past three years on the evolution of work, the skills society and the transformation of trades. I therefore welcome the Government's willingness to commit an additional $1.5 billion in training to create an additional 200,000 places in 2021, and I would like to draw its attention to the capacity of the public employment service to implement this dynamic, which cannot be slowed down due to the lack of an inoperative or too slow system – the means of employment, in particular, must be up to date. We're counting on you. The second course is for young people: they are the top priority. At the start of the year, 700000 of them will enter the labour market. We must mobilize collectively to open the door to employment and to remove the reluctance to hire because of the uncertain economic context. The effort made by the Government is massive: 4000 euros per year for the hiring of a young person under 25 years of age, 5000 euros for apprentices under age, 8000 euros for apprentices under age. Those who pick up and stay away from the labour market must be, more than others, in our viewer – this is the case with the 300,000 integration routes planned for 2021. We're counting on you. There are other issues that feed into the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, including health sport, on which I want to say a few words. He's not a gadget, he's not a lubi. The crisis of the covid-19 showed how peripheral pathologies could worsen the spread of the virus. Similarly, confinement revealed how committed the French were to the practice of physical activity. I repeat, therefore, that spending part of the money from health insurance and the supplementary mutuals to encourage adapted physical activity is not an additional expense, but rather, because of the reduction in certain diseases and their effects, an economy for future expenditure. The post-cancer support package adopted under the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020 was a first step, but it is essential to go much further. We're counting on you. A word of method, to conclude. In the face of the turbulence we are experiencing, the strength of the budget is based on co-production between the executive and Parliament. The Prime Minister called for her in her general policy speech. We'll answer here! A majority is measured by its action: the French will remember that it is under our leadership that the salaries of hospital staff have been increased by 200 euros net per month and that 15,000 posts have been created. This is a historic effort, which I welcome. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Minister Delegate, on behalf of the La République Group on the move, on behalf of those who are counting on me, who are counting on us, I call on the Government to prepare a budget for 2021 to match the challenges of this complicated period and the profound transformations of French society, which we must accompany and protect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u227	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u228	In exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures. In order to cope with an unprecedented health crisis, the Government had to implement new measures, including their scale, in order to cushion the shock of the health crisis for the French economy. The fall in public finances gives rise to vertigo: debt rises to 121% of GDP; public expenditure increases by more than 6% to 63.6% of GDP; The government deficit is now expected to reach 11.4% of GDP. Our agreement, however, stops with these findings, because the two documents that inform this parliamentary debate, the report prepared by the Government in preparation for the public finance policy debate, and the Court of Auditors' report of June 2020 on the state and outlook for public finances, lead to very different conclusions. For the Government, it's all right, Mrs. Marquise! Everything's been handled perfectly. He agreed on an indecent satisfaction with the state of public finances and the management of the crisis, and was optimistic for the coming months. He's in his role and I'm in mine bringing a few nuances to this idyllic postcard. The Government believes that France has entered into a well-prepared health crisis – although it has considerably degraded public accounts – thanks to the rigorous and sincere management that preceded it and which, in its view, allowed an immediate response. He tells us that French growth was 1.5% in 2019, driven by domestic demand but limited by the trade balance, far from the initial forecasts. He said that the purchasing power of households had also increased by 2.1 per cent, resulting in an increase in consumption. The feeling of our fellow citizens is quite different, believe me! He is satisfied with his deficit results by pointing out that the deficit remained the same in 2018 and 2019 – but this shows that no structural effort has been made: the debt is stabilized, but its repayment has not begun. He points out that public spending reached 53.7% of GDP in 2019, but he fails to say that his pace of growth was 1.8% in 2019. This double speech is confirmed by the Court of Auditors, which is obviously more objective and harsher on the situation. It regrets, in fact, a largely unfinished recovery of public accounts in 2019 and maintains, unlike the Government, that "France did not address this crisis with restored public finances":
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u229	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u230	Debt has increased continuously over the past forty years; The adjustments undertaken since the 2000s have mainly consisted of tax increases and public expenditure has never really declined despite the favourable environment of low rates; the structural deficit has not been reduced and remains at a distance from the medium-term target of -0.4 percentage point of GDP set by the Public Finance Programming Act for the years 2018 to 2022; public expenditure has accelerated in parallel with a drop in levies of almost EUR 10 billion – which is contrary to high-cycle heterodox fiscal policies. Thus, according to the Court of Auditors, France has approached the crisis with insufficiently restored margins of action. It stresses the challenge of debt sustainability in the years to come and stresses that the government's recovery scenario, based on a preserved potential GDP, is – as usual – "optimistic". As a result of the destruction of productive potential, the spontaneous rebalancing of public accounts will in fact be only very partial. The Court also solemnly warns: "France cannot let its debt flow without being exposed to major difficulties in the medium and long term"; "Reducing debt is [...] necessary in order to restore policy space and to mitigate divergences in course of action between euro area countries". Finally, building a true public finance strategy seems fundamental to him: we must, in a word, get out of the constant reaction and be part of a long cycle. A recovery plan is needed, but the speech must be clear. For three years, you explained to the French that the funds were empty, but you did not undertake any of the structural reforms that were essential. In a few weeks, you have proved to our fellow citizens that state funds can be filled miraculously, without reminding us – which is essential – that public money is not free and that it involves us for several generations. This is a profound mistake, which you have to measure quickly given the likelihood of a second wave, because our margin of manoeuvre is drastically shrinking. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The State lives on more credit every day. The illusionists who propose unlimited public spending lie to the French by making them lose their sense of reality. The Republican Group believes that we must abandon this conception of a state that can and must do everything, because it weighs on our future: which father of a family is not, someday or another, obliged to repay his debt? The French State will not be able to escape it. It is up to you, who are in charge, to remind the French, without false appearances or excuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u231	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u232	The health crisis we have experienced, its economic, social and societal consequences have and will have a significant impact on our social finances. From the beginning of the crisis, the working Republic Group welcomed the first steps taken by the Government. In order to respond quickly to the expectations of the affected employees and companies, the latter has chosen to make extensive use of the financing of partial unemployment corresponding to 84% of the net wage. Additional responses were provided to beneficiaries of active solidarity income and the specific solidarity allowance, who received €150 in aid, plus €100 per dependent child, also accessible to families receiving personalized housing assistance. These mechanisms have helped to protect our economy and jobs, and to avoid breaches of rights, especially for the most vulnerable audiences. The period also provided us with an opportunity to measure the commitment of our caregivers; It obliges us to give us the means to demonstrate to them the recognition of the nation, in particular by revalorizing their remuneration. Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, has therefore wished to open a rapid consultation with all the trade union organisations, but also with the actors concerned and the citizens, in order to identify the advantages and limits of our care system. The conclusions of the Ségur de la santé have been made. They have made considerable progress: 1.8 million professionals will benefit from an increase in their remuneration; the salary of all paramedical staff – hospital staff and employees of residential establishments for dependent elderly, EHPADs – will increase by 200 euros net per month. These agreements represent a great promise: they will give the health professions a new attraction and transform health facilities in the service of patients. In order to further this progress, the Assembly will need to be seized of additional measures in favour of old age and autonomy. Under the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020, a budget of EUR 500 million for the period 2020-2021 had already been allocated in order to support EHPADs, in particular promoting 5200 hirings. The home help sector had also benefited from an additional EUR 50 million. It must remain at the heart of our priorities in view of the announced ageing of our population. According to projections for 2030, 2.6 million people will then be over 85 years of age, 1.6 million of whom will lose their autonomy. As a result, reform of our system and the provision of new funding are essential. It will also be necessary to plan and anticipate the renovation of the reception facilities. According to the latest surveys, a quarter of EHPADs have not been renovated in 25 years. Investments in digital and technological equipment should also be seen as essential. In order to meet the first identified needs and secure the related funding, this afternoon the National Assembly will vote for the creation of the fifth branch of social security. This historic provision will, I am sure, be up to the challenges of ageing well in France. It will improve the training of caregivers, the level of supervision, the way in which they receive care, as well as the medical presence, as well as the link with the care system. Public investment must be based on a rethought of national solidarity and on the recognition of the role of the territories. This model change must allow our EHPADs to become real places of life. As the Deputy Minister for Self-Government pointed out in the last questions to the Government, the aim will be to promote the development of shared habitats in order to make them human-sized living units with mutual support. Our reflection on the next PLFSS will also have to take into account the work to be carried out alongside local and regional authorities in favour of the home care and accompaniment sectors. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – The president and the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs also applaud]] In this way, the public health of tomorrow will have to take into account the aspirations of all French people, including our elders, the full citizens of our nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u233	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u234	I thank all the speakers for the richness of their comments. The divergence of views is the strength of the democratic debate: each of the positions expressed will be useful for the preparation of the PLF for 2021 and for the final arbitrations that we must render on this subject. I was asked about the timetable, specifically the relationship between the PLFRs – the ones you have adopted, the one on which you will vote this afternoon – and the recovery plan, which will be presented on 24 August and whose financial and tax provisions will be contained in the PLF for 2021. I wish to reassure those who fear that the date of 24 August is too late: the revival is now; Recovery is also the PLFR. This has been pointed out on several occasions, in particular by Mrs Louwagie, according to which we have only released and delivered 470 billion euros, including 330 guarantees, 60 credits and 77 carry-overs of contributions or deadlines, to accompany the economic sector. In addition, the PLFR3, on which you will have to decide one last time this afternoon, guarantees the financing of sectoral plans, for 45 billion, and of schemes to help the most fragile as well as help to hire young people, to the tune of 4000 euros per job – the Prime Minister is currently detailing this last mechanism as part of his trip to Besançon. In total, all the stimulus measures we need and will formally implement on 24 August can be financed from the 2020 financial year. Several schemes already allow this, including the fund allowing participation in companies, as well as the possibility of financing the industrial sectors of the future, opened by an amendment to the PLFR3 adopted by the Senate, by means of a call for projects – we have included more than EUR 500 million in appropriations for this purpose. Recovery and its tools are indeed funded. In an attempt to reassure those who would remain concerned, the end-of-management PLFR could also be used if additional funding were to prove necessary in 2020. Another set of questions focused on local communities, including the concerns of President Rabault. By the PLFR3, we have introduced an absolutely new revenue guarantee system: at no time in recent history has the state guaranteed tax and government revenues, in addition to maintaining the level of the endowments. To this support for own resources, we have added an additional $1 billion in support for local investment, which is also quite unprecedented. Through the recovery plan, we will strengthen the investment support tools. We are very committed to the reduction of compulsory levies. This is already a reality: we have honoured the presidential commitment by reducing the mandatory levy rate from 45.1 to 43.8 per cent. It is absolutely necessary to preserve this acquis: the recovery will not be financed by tax, but by the return of activity and by the creation of jobs and wealth, in order to guarantee a constant levy – at most – the return to balance and an acceptable trajectory for public finances. Some have also expressed concern that we have not found in the guidelines that we have presented to you the traces of the so-called Ségur measures – the EUR 8 billion of salary support, but also the investment measures. The most immediate investments will be able to find their place in the recovery plan; Above all, the salary adjustment announced by the Minister of Solidarity and Health will be included in the PLFSS, while the orientations we are discussing are mainly related to the PLF. I want to say to Mr Naillet, to whom I welcome you in the Chamber, that the overseas countries are not forgotten in the PLFR3: the guarantee of revenue I have just mentioned has been adapted to the ultramarine territories to cover the proceeds of the special consumption tax, but also of the right of granting of the sea, for a total of EUR 60 million. In the separate draw – which was distributed very late – you will be able to see that the appropriations for programme 123, "Conditions of living overseas", are increasing by 64 million, i.e. by 6 %, or two and a half times the rate of increase in government spending next year, reflecting the special attention we give to the overseas. This does not exempt us from remedying the more structural difficulties that you have reminded us of.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u235	We can do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u236	The goal of the PLF for 2021 is of course to start recovery and wealth creation, in order to regain the level of GDP reached at the end of 2019. In the eyes of some, this is not ambitious enough. Of course, we all want the recovery to be faster. In particular, I hope to reassure Mrs Lemoine that our assumption of an 11 per cent decline in growth in 2020 has been described as prudent by the High Council for Public Finance. It is one of the most severe ones that have been issued: only one forecaster is more pessimistic than the French state on this point, when six others anticipate a more favourable situation, notwithstanding – it is important – the risk of a rescission of the epidemic and a subsequent deterioration of health conditions. These are the reasons why we hope to find a level of deficit in 2021 that is half that of 2020, and then much more acceptable, even if it will take a few more years to reach the 3%, that we are aiming for by 2026-2027, as indicated by the documents we have provided to you. In addition, as I said in my opening remarks, our approach with regard to the conventional budget, apart from the recovery plan, is to stick as much as possible to the three-year budget, for two reasons. First, the credibility of the French signature on financial markets depends on respect for our economic agenda, in particular the choice of a policy of supply and competitiveness. Secondly, sticking to it as much as possible is the prerequisite for moving away from it somewhat in order to finance new priorities, including integration and employment. In this respect, Ms Dupont will find in the PLF for 2021 answers to her expectations regarding the financing and support of integration through economic activity, a good way of working. These priorities also concern national education, higher education and justice, with, as I said, an increase of 6 per cent, aimed at catching up with the slight slowdown observed in the last two years, due to a lack of implementation due to reasons that everyone knows and understands, in relation to the objectives of the Law on Programming and Reform for Justice. Finally, Bruno Le Maire and I pay particular attention to the nature of the recovery plan, which must be massive, rapid and effective: its measures must be cyclical. Once it has been implemented and we have regained the level of wealth at the end of 2019, the share of public expenditure in GDP should not be higher than it was then – on the contrary, since we must maintain the trend towards its relief. The expenditure of the recovery plan must therefore be reversible: it should be possible to examine it and steer it along the way, so that appropriations which it would appear cannot be committed in this context are redeployed, if necessary, or even cancelled. The prospect of cancellation is sometimes the best motivation to commit funds and to allocate them to projects that can be implemented. We will be vigilant on this point: the recovery plan must not trigger a cliquet effect that would put us in a more unfavourable situation than before the crisis. This is also the issue of the coming weeks and the budgetary debates that we will have from September onwards. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] The number of interventions and their wealth did not allow me to answer all – I was not able to say anything about the debt and competitiveness issues raised by Jean-Noël Barrot – and forced me to use a somewhat telegraphic style which I apologize for. But we will have sitting hours in the fall to dig into the points discussed, in order to be effective together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u237	The public finance policy debate for 2021 is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-07-23-E1017.u238	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Final reading of the draft organic law and the draft law on social debt and autonomy; Final reading of the 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill; Reading the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft amending finance law for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
