ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u1	The next item is the debate on employment policies. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. The latter will answer questions from the different groups in a second stage. Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u2	Since the beginning of the quinquennium we have been pursuing an employment policy which we can welcome, not only because it is already bearing fruit – unemployment has fallen by 2% over a year – but also and above all because it aims to enable people who are furthest from employment to return to work or to train. These measures take on a particular dimension when they apply to the employment of persons with disabilities. Starting in 2019, we have provided budget appropriations to allow the hiring by an adapted company of 10,000 people with additional disabilities. The Strategy for the Employment of Persons with Disabilities builds on the reform of apprenticeship and vocational training to improve the employment rate of persons with disabilities, promote their training, develop their skills and facilitate their administrative processes. The provisions on the reform of apprenticeship contained in the Act of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future are particularly suitable for persons with disabilities. The budget of EUR 20 million per year to improve the level of support for apprenticeship contracts for persons with disabilities, in order to secure the necessary adaptations to their journey, will achieve the objective of doubling the number of apprentices by 2022. The mandatory appointment of a disability referent in all apprenticeship training centres – CFA – as of January 1, 2019 demonstrates how much this reform was designed for the inclusion of all. We have placed the development of learning at the heart of the transformation of employment policy because this development must benefit all of us. The reform of vocational training also has a strong inclusive dimension. It provides for an increase in the personal training account – CPF – for persons recognised as disabled, including those working in an establishment and employment support service – ESAT – for an amount of 800 euros per year, up to a ceiling of 8000 euros, against 500 euros per year and a ceiling of 5000 euros for other assets. Measures relating to the skills investment plan – ICP – for people furthest from the labour market have also been designed as tools for building qualifying training pathways for employees of adapted enterprises benefiting from a "top-up CDD" or a mission or acting contract in suitable temporary work enterprises. At the same time, regional pacts are a real lever for developing vocational training for people with disabilities. The new training markets and the new accreditations of training bodies increase the consideration of the training needs of persons with disabilities. They include training on the prerequisites of a qualification course and take better account of the adaptations necessary for their accessibility: I am thinking in particular of the reception, the pedagogy, the rhythm, the training of trainers, among others. While encouraging the provision of jobs for persons with disabilities, the Act of 5 September 2018, which entered into force on 1 January 2020, also makes it possible to empower companies and to frame the supply of jobs by providing that the count of the obligation to work is carried out at the enterprise level rather than the establishment, and by making social responsibility a lever for the hiring of persons with disabilities, through an inclusive employment policy, which now takes into account all types of employment in the annual employment declaration. As you like to say, Minister of Labour, the transformation of our employment policy works on two legs: accompaniment and accountability. Our employment policy for people with disabilities is a significant example. The measures we have taken in areas such as equal pay for women and men also demonstrate this, since, for the first time in the history of labour law, this equality is now an obligation of result and not of means. It must be translated into equivalent remuneration rather than mere intentions. All these measures are in place, our positive law has incorporated them, but their implementation calls for vigilance. Indeed, these new and ambitious provisions deserve to be accompanied by a real change in attitudes, a new vision of employment and society. They must be accompanied by a more comprehensive overhaul of the human resources approach in our companies so that the employment of all employees continues to be protected and encouraged. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This vigilance must also be ours, as legislators, so that all categories of employees are affected by this transformation. I am thinking in particular of seniors, who are more exposed to long-term unemployment. In its reference on career ends, published on 10 October, the Court of Auditors states that the employment rate of French seniors – 52.3% – remains below the European average of 59%. In the wake of the pension reform we are preparing, this issue also deserves our full attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u3	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u4	We are now in a position to debate public action for employment. Let us say that public policies for employment are not like other public policies: they are essential, they are priority, they are decisive. They are the very basis for the resolution of many evils in our society. Long-term unemployment, occupational exclusion are the source of many individual difficulties and collective disorders. In countries with high levels of activity, social and societal problems are more easily resolved. We have to believe in the value of work. We must defend it as much as we must restore it. This value must be the cardinal point of the entire organization of our Republic and our economic and social system. We must be the spokespersons for so many of our fellow citizens who want to live from their jobs, and allow those who invest, who create to move forward and develop. We, the Republicans, believe that public employment policy must be based on the value of work. We also consider that the question of employment is based on enterprise. We have to believe in the company. The employment pillar is enterprise, in all its forms, in all sectors of activity. Enterprise must be at the heart of public employment policies. Many things have been done, especially by right-wing governments, so that businesses can respond to economic cycles, international competition, the new economy, in short, to the requirement of competitiveness. But the cost of work is still too high and remains a barrier to hiring. Although corrective measures, depending on the types and categories of employment, have been introduced in recent years, the weight of social security contributions is leading to the ability of companies to hire. The reduction of costs remains a necessity, and more generally the reduction of taxes and taxes related to production and economic activity. Without further developing for lack of time, I also recall the French anomaly, which is the excess of constraints, of coercive norms, of red tape, rightly denounced by the entrepreneurs. A real big bang is needed to profoundly correct the tax, legal and administrative environment of companies. A culture of trust in entrepreneurs needs to be developed as well. That is what a public employment policy must be in the 21st century! Finally, the real problem of skills remains. Despite your willingness to invest in skills, Madam Minister, how many large companies, SMEs and artisans are unable to recruit because of the lack of profiles tailored to their needs? Let us give strength to our entrepreneurs, to our artisans, to our independents, to our farmers, to all the Liberals who want to move forward because they are the creators of jobs and wealth in our country, which will ultimately help to solve the problem of employment in our country. Moreover, even if the stimulation of the labour market is necessary to promote access to or return to employment, the labour market alone cannot ensure employment for all. Flexibility measures have been taken by different governments, convinced that this was the solution. It had to be done, of course, but the persistent level of unemployment shows that this cannot be the only solution. Yes to a game of supply and demand energized, liberated, but also, and just as much, to the action of the public authorities. The State, in accordance with its political, moral, republican obligations or a concept of "France for all" has a major responsibility towards those who are far from the labour market. I say this clearly and firmly: a public employment policy is needed to combat long-term unemployment and to reactivate those women and men who suffer from barriers to employment, either intrinsically or as a result of their life course or economic changes. We have to spend public money on it. The State, with the support of local and regional authorities in particular, must offer tools for integration and never cease to innovate in this field. You know, Madam Minister, my convictions regarding integration through economic activity, but so much remains to be done! I regret, Madam Minister, that you are not determined to go further in this area. For the same reasons, a public policy for the employment of young people and seniors is needed. Access or return-to-use solutions have already been tested, but they have not been imposed, for various reasons, and existing schemes are ineffective. These two major categories of French are still often left behind today, sometimes in situations of great insecurity. It is not because France has not found the levers for the employment of young people or seniors that it must give up, quite the contrary. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That, Madam Minister, is the contribution that the LR Group is making to this debate on the issues of access to employment for all, to this challenge for employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u5	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u6	The year that had just ended had been marked by the achievement of many advances in labour and employment policy, under the leadership of the Government. This progress reflects the desire of the President of the Republic to restore its full dimension to the "labour society" by making employment a truly emancipatory tool, enabling everyone to live properly and reducing their cost to employers. It is thanks to work, a vehicle for individual but also collective emancipation, that we can live better and consume better, also enrich ourselves with new skills, find our place and evolve within society. The Government has worked from the beginning of the quinquennium to promote purchasing power and remuneration. In this connection, a number of measures can be welcomed, such as the increase in the net wages of the active population through the reduction of social contributions on wages, an increase in the working age premium, or a reduced cost for employers, in order to facilitate the hiring of the least qualified workers in particular. On behalf of the MODEM Group, I would like to welcome this assessment and reiterate our support for the many measures taken in this area, as they are bearing fruit: economic growth is up 1.3% in 2019 and 500,000 jobs have been created since 2017, including 260,000 in 2019. However, these efforts must be continued and scaled up. In fact, public policies on work and employment cannot stand in the way of the enormous challenge which is intrinsically linked to them, that of combating inequalities. As we have seen with the yellow vest crisis, and despite the measures taken to improve pay and facilitate hiring, the issues of purchasing power and the inequalities generated by labour income are the subject of a strong social challenge. Exceptional premium, upgrading of the activity premium by 90 euros, cancellation of the increase in the CSG – generalised social contribution – for pensioners earning less than 2000 euros per month, defiscalisation of overtime on 1 January 2019: the emergency measures taken in December 2018 have again borne fruit. Since 1 January 2019, the activity premium has benefited an additional 1.2 million people, of whom 500,000 could not claim it before. The direct effects of these measures on the purchasing power of modest and middle-class households have been demonstrated. We can be pleased that these mechanisms have reached their target and have produced positive results, especially in favour of the most modest ones. Beyond the value of work, another aspect is fundamental: the achievement of each person in his or her job, the acquisition of new skills, the valuing of qualities throughout working life. This dynamic starts from the outset of studies, with a view to preparing for entry into working life as best as possible. That is why the Government has undertaken a major reform of learning and training, with the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. The development of alternance, the involvement of the professional branches or the simplification of the conditions for the execution of the apprenticeship contract, both for apprentices and for employers, are all measures that will offer more flexibility and legibility to the actors of the apprenticeship – an indispensable vehicle to help many young people find their way as soon as possible. The development of skills must continue during working life for all employees who wish to do so. Support for employees, support for retraining and continuing training must also be strengthened, so that everyone can perform and flourish professionally. In conclusion, an effective employment policy can only be carried out with the participation of the key players, business and social partners. The ability to mobilize trade unions is currently very strong. We can welcome this, and we must take advantage of this momentum to ask ourselves collectively about pay for work, not only in the public sector but also in the private sector, whose voice has been scarcely heard in recent weeks. Beyond the many government measures I have just mentioned, which have significantly reduced the various burdens, it would be desirable for companies to review the distribution of the wealth they create. An evolution that would combine an increase in payroll with a reduction in dividends would be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u8	It is up to us to seize this fundamental subject in order to create a more just and egalitarian society, to bring together the French and thus contribute to the advent of a society with a human face.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u9	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u10	When we talk about employment, we talk regularly about the unemployed and the suffering endured by job seekers. While unemployment has fallen slightly, this decline has unfortunately been accompanied by an increase in the number of poor workers. According to the Observatoire des Inequalités, one million people are employed but have a standard of living below the poverty line. We cannot therefore be satisfied with the current situation, where poor workers – low-skilled workers, low-skilled workers, self-employed workers – constitute France's forgotten. "There is no dignity of work except in freely accepted work," said Albert Camus. But it is a model of work that you have been promoting since the "work orders" and the reform of unemployment insurance, a model that makes work lose its emancipatory vocation, especially for our less well-trained fellow citizens. I would also like to mention a regularly forgotten subject: the situation of the 3.7 million precarious workers in France, employed mainly in acting contracts or in fixed-term contracts – CSD. I am also thinking of inactive people who want to work but cannot find a job because of their living constraints, from mothers with single-parent families who do not have any form of care for their children to those with low skills and who are far from the employment areas. In the face of this observation, can we do better? Yeah, I think so. For example, we could amplify the experimentation of the long-term unemployed zero-territories, or increase the number of assisted contracts, so that associations and local and regional authorities step up integration through employment. We could also step up support for single-parent families, particularly with regard to childcare, so that women – who are most affected by part-time work and forced unemployment – can freely choose their working time and work under easier conditions. Finally, we could improve training during working life, the very one that you have seriously deteriorated by creating a personal training account in euros which, in fact, reduces the right to training for our citizens. For socialists, work is a central value. It is it that enables individual emancipation, but also the collective rise of society – because it is work that allows us to maintain a protective social model throughout life: I am of course thinking of unemployment insurance, health insurance and pension insurance. I would also like to draw your attention to the protection of workers. As soon as you came to power in 2017, you degraded the penitential account, an instrument that protected workers from work-related risks. Yet, Madam Minister, taking account of penitibility, both for assets and for retirees, is nothing more than compensation for the damage suffered. This central issue cannot be ignored. Yes, there are painful jobs in our country. Yes, some occupations use body and mind more than others. Yes, work can have adverse health consequences. Denying this, as you have done by degrading the penitibility account, is a serious mistake; It is neglecting the suffering of certain professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u12	[["But no! »on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] You have removed four criteria of penitibility to deprive a large number of workers of the just reparation of their harms, which had been made possible by the penitential account created by the socialists. Thus, occupations exposing to painful postures, mechanical vibrations, chemical hazards and the carrying of heavy loads are excluded from the recognition of penitibility. You exclude cashiers, housekeepers, construction workers, delivery workers and energy workers. Is this social progress, which you claim to defend? I don't believe it. And not only do you deny penitibility during working life, but you are also about to maintain this injustice during retirement – your pension reform is in fact silent on the issue. Again, you are moving away from a just and supportive society, in which work emancipates and protects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u13	Mr. Francis Vercamer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u14	With more than 260,000 jobs created in one year – measured in the third quarter – and an unemployment rate of 8.5%, our country seems to have returned to a positive employment trajectory in 2019. Being driven mainly by the dynamism of growth, this trajectory remains uncertain; Moreover, the Government is planning to slow down growth in 2020. At the same time, this overall situation hides many disparities. These disparities are first of all human: the sources of unemployment differ depending on whether you are young or old, graduate or low-skilled, executive or employed, or have been unemployed for a few months or for more than a year, or even two or three years. In addition, recruitment is still massive in terms of fixed-term contracts, with what this implies is uncertainty as to the sustainability of employment. Disparities are also occupational, as the sectors of activity participate in various ways in the dynamics. While the tertiary sector and services draw heavily from employment, other sectors are in tension and are struggling to recruit, revealing a continuing mismatch between supply and demand. How can we ignore that certain activities are experiencing major difficulties, such as large distribution, at a time when the Auchan group, born in the Roubaisian agglomeration, is about to announce a plan of massive voluntary departures? Finally, there are disparities at the territorial level, as opportunities for finding employment vary depending on whether you live in an agglomeration or a rural sector, a dynamic or deindustrialised employment pool. The situation is often even more complex: within the European metropolis of Lille, for example, the Lille employment pool has an unemployment rate of 8.9% in the second quarter of 2019, while the Roubaisian basin maintains a rate of 12.5% and neighbourhoods covered by city policy reach record levels. If economic unemployment falls, then structural unemployment remains deeply rooted in the social fabric of our country. For example, 48% of those registered with the Employment Centre have been registered for more than a year. We expect the State and the Government to take strong measures to reduce this structural unemployment, which affects job-seekers who need the most support. The IDU, Agir and Independent Group is convinced that this structural unemployment and these disparities must be addressed through a variety of responses. That is how we will win the long-term battle for employment. These answers go first and foremost through vocational training. It is still premature to take stock of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, and uncertainty remains as to the attitude of employees towards the personal training account. We can hope that the monetisation of the latter will not encourage employees to wait too long to get involved in training, and that the support provided, in particular by the professional development council, will contribute to the relevant use of the CPF. Both aspects deserve vigilance from the actors in vocational training and government services. Vigilance is also needed to ensure the smooth running of entry-level training courses, which are too often blocked on the ground due to lack of funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u15	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u16	Similarly, we need to hear from employers when they explain how high the cost of a professionalization contract is for their company, given the length of time the employee spends in their walls. The answers then go through the assisted contracts. Job entry skills – PEC – registered a sharp decrease in 2019: 78,153 contracts had been signed at the end of September, compared to just over 92000 in 2018. The figures seem to confirm the difficult rise of this system to replace assisted contracts. In this context, it is difficult to explain why, in recent weeks, structures have been denied their plans to hire or renew contracts in CEC due to the exhaustion or freezing of the appropriations intended to finance them. Finally, the success of employment policies depends to a large extent on innovation and confidence in the territories, as well as on the joint mobilisation of local authorities, local actors in the public employment service, the social partners in the employment areas and the vocational sectors. The report of the evaluation committee on the experimentation of frank jobs identifies among the factors of success the sustained mobilisation of all the parties involved. This is probably one of the areas where employment policies can still evolve: they must make tools available to communities and territories, and trust their ability to make the best use of them according to the specificities of the local labour market. Finally, whether it is with free jobs or with the experiment of the territories zero long-term unemployed, it is time to support the territorial innovations, which constitute one of the springs of the dynamics of employment in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u17	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u18	I wish you all the best, Madam Minister, and first of all a speedy recovery after your accident. Francis Vercamer has rightly explained that, despite massive job creations over the last two years, acknowledge this, and despite the initiatives you have taken under the labour orders, we are reaching a threshold, a structural mass of unemployed people against whom decision-makers and local actors have the greatest difficulty in fighting. Secondly, young people are not spared unemployment either. The numbers are calling us. They show that, contrary to words spoken many years ago, but that you all have in memory, it is not true that we have tried everything; There's still some leads to explore. In the Libertés et Territoires Group, we are committed to the idea that it is by working as closely as possible that we can be effective. In fact, if we look at what is happening in France, we see that some territories have an unemployment rate of 3%, while it is 13%, or even 25%, or even 40% in some suburbs. However, state policies are the same everywhere, and the texts drawn up in the National Assembly, the Senate and the government chambers apply everywhere. This means that there have been differences in responsiveness, varying efficiency depending on the location, and that this is to be put on the account of local elected officials. That is why we have advocated, in a document submitted to the President of the Republic, the regionalisation of employment policies as well as policies to accompany enterprises, with a view to developing in particular the very small and small and medium-sized enterprises or industries, our TPEs, SMEs and PMIs, all these great pools of enterprises. Give the keys to the regions – even if the regulatory framework must naturally be established by the state: you will see that efficiency will be at the right time! In any case, within the same region, there will be disparities and particularities depending on whether you are in a particular place. The same goes for rural poles of excellence and competitiveness poles: go ahead, give the keys to the regions! In fact, they are the first financiers of these devices. I have the chance to pilot a small start-up village, and I can tell you that it was following a local initiative that the local authorities and the state intervened in a second stage. Trust local actors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u20	With regard to training, skills and learning policies, it is true that thanks to the arrangements you have made, Madam Minister, the figures are encouraging. Of which, and I hope that this will continue. There is, however, a flat – but you are fully aware of it: it is that the branches tend to group the formations in the large urban centres. It will therefore be necessary to be vigilant with regard to the training map in a few years' time. A few words about pre-recruitment training – AFPR. It is a very nice tool, but I would ask you to specify the conditions of use in the Directorates of Pôle emploi. I myself found in my small community that Pôle Emploi's management did not fully control them when it was a particularly flexible tool. As for acting, which did not inspire confidence, it should be further facilitated. I believe that the commitments made by the sector have been met. Interim CDIs were created. Reduce the waiting times further, I am confident that this will allow us to go further. With the Libertés et territoires group, I had suggested to Olivier Dussopt, then sitting on the bench of the government, that the project contract for the public service be not a fixed-term contract, but an open-ended contract. This would make it possible to secure people's daily lives, for example in terms of borrowing, without posing difficulties for the territorial community, since one project can follow another and the same skills can be reused. I would also like to refer, after Francis Vercamer, to the digital transformation. The issue is closely linked to that of telework. The latter is a great tool – it is happening right now with the strikes in the transport sector – but which is unfortunately too often limited to this dimension of digital deployment. If this is not within your department's jurisdiction,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u21	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u22	... things are intimately connected. The battle we are fighting is dedicated to the most remote territories, which have the least public funding. Thus, despite the new mobile deal, 4G telephony is unfortunately not growing fast enough. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to two points. The first is that the bridges between the public service and private jobs are insufficiently used while they could open up tremendous opportunities for development through contrasting paths. The second is that it is imperative that you trust the territories, the local actors. In this context, you could use experiments to verify that the objectives have been met. Progress has been made. We can only welcome this, because in the face of unemployment, which we are too often deprived of, it is up to us to find appropriate tools. Let us not repeat the mistake made with the territories of industry, a tool invented a little more than a year ago: where are we today?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u23	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] This is a typical example of a system in which the State gives regions with one hand to take over from the other. And that's the guaranteed failure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u25	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u26	We have changed our year and, at the same time, our calendar, but the social reality remains. A chain of lead has as long as ever been installed in the country. Whether we know the precariousness or whether we are materially more preserved, no one feels really immune from anything. The fear of downgrading, the observation that children live less well than their parents, the fear of losing their job or of receiving such precarious employment that it does not allow to secure projects that mark a normal life, the fear of forced geographical mobility... It is far from the time when, when one was dissatisfied with his work, one could resign with the hope of finding another very quickly; it is far away when it was enough to "cross the street" to find a job. There is little more than presidential wishes that allow, like an advertising page, to dream of another reality. On 31 December, a little after twenty hours, I could not help but think of all those French people who have been suffering the spread of poverty or insecurity since the beginning of the quinquennium. They must have been delighted to learn from the President that France had "never experienced such an impulse"! Since the beginning of the quinquennium, you have called on us to welcome statistical findings which do not alter the country's deep social reality and which do not take account of the precarious nature of employment. You praise the dynamism of job creation and have recently said that we have never been so hired in the last 20 years. It's true, but at what cost? At the cost of a precarious employment situation which has considerably increased. To be exact, it would have to be said that there had never been so many contracts of employment in the last 20 years. But is this to be welcomed when we know that 87% of these contracts are short contracts, and that 83% of them last less than a month and a third less than a day? What life can be expected, Madam Minister, when work is so precarious? None! Absolutely none! As we produce more wealth than ever before, life cannot be reduced to a permanent war to provide for the most primary needs. It's neither bearable nor acceptable. You also say that the unemployment rate has been at its lowest level in ten years, but you forget to say that the Government has chosen not to publish quarterly statistics any more. It should therefore be added that the unemployed who have had a few hours of activity, the unemployed who have been prevented from working immediately, the discouraged who are withdrawing from the employment centre, where there is still about one job offer not available for every 100 unemployed available. In short, mass unemployment and job insecurity remain the background to the country's social situation. Is there less work to be done? Definitely not, especially if we want to project ourselves for a moment towards everything we should have begun for a long time now in order to meet the human and technical challenge ahead of us, climate change, in which we are wasting a lot of time because of your ideological blindness and the pursuit of old recipes. Let's think about it: with the energy transition, the agricultural transition, the relocation of our business, the economy of the sea, hundreds of thousands or even millions of new jobs are waiting to be created. Instead, the only path you propose to follow is competition, competition and cost reduction. Your employment policy holds on two legs, but it doesn't work. The first leg is the reduction of workers' rights: you see, despite common sense, that there is a link between the reduction of workers' rights in the company and the level of employment. We will have an opportunity to discuss this earlier when we discuss the results of the application of your labour code reform orders. The second leg is the uncompensated tax incentive and gifts to the largest capital holders, in the hope that they will almost magically be reflected on employment. You have thus removed the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – by promising us the revival of productive investments. But since this abolition, investment in SMEs has fallen by 70%! You have maintained the competitiveness employment tax credit – CICE – by transforming it into a reduction in social contributions, but it costs very much: 200000 euros on average the job created or maintained! On the employment front, therefore, if there is one thing to wish for this new year, it is for you to change your mind. [[Exclaims and laughs on the benches of the LaREM group]] Since I am sure of it, I am not going to silence him: if we were in business, our results would be much better than yours. We are not giving up full employment and, for that, the road map is all drawn up. We must share working time, not lengthen it, as you are about to do with pension reform. We must break with free trade, which you consolidate and continue to develop. Wages must be increased, as this is the condition for the necessary sharing of wealth and a guarantee for popular consumption. There is a need for massive investment and a radical shift in public policy towards ecological planning. But I may have spoken enough, rather troubled the party.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u27	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, It was fun!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I leave you to the joys of the self.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u29	Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u30	The current social crisis underlines that employment and retirement are centuries-old and interconnected pillars of our societies. However, although their centrality is accepted by all, there are still strong sectoral and territorial disparities. For example, in the third quarter of 2019, Martinique had 51,500 jobseekers in all categories, an increase of 0.6%. Taking into account category A alone, the increase is 0.3%; It is 0.2% for men and 0.4% for women; 0.9% for children under 25 years of age and 1% for those over 50 years of age. At the same time, and paradoxically, the island lost 15827 inhabitants between 2011 and 2016, mostly young people. I let you imagine how high the unemployment rate would be if all these young people had stayed there! This surreal situation stems from the fact that successive employment policies have, at all times, been completely disconnected from the constraints of our territories: among other things, an economic fabric composed of almost 90% of very small enterprises and self-employed workers, a record of creations but also of destruction of enterprises, territorial continuity which is nothing but a lever of migration, an average unemployment rate of 18%, inconceivable in hexagon. The dual crisis – the double penalty – economic and demographic therefore requires shock responses to stop the flight of the living forces, the chronicle of a programmed economic genocide. Our territories can no longer have a republican minimum service. In the hexagon, initiatives are increasing to reduce, at all costs, an unemployment rate of 8%, which is considered offensive. Eight percent! What to say then when this rate reaches 18%! Our populations aspire to live at home, refusing the worst of the exodus or the ultramarine fatality of unemployment. Objectively, national policies, of all times and of all political trends, have treated us as mere appendices, far away, too different, too cumbersome to hope for a better consideration. We therefore call for the right to positive discrimination, in order to counter the inequalities that affect us and the risk of social decohesion or even chaos that threatens us. Declare the priority cause of the right to employment is an emergency if people are to be allowed to project themselves in the future. A systemic, responsive and effective employment policy must be inclusive in order to respond effectively to current challenges, including demographic decline, based on a true policy of age and family, through the support of our seniors. With sufficient competence, priority must be given to local hiring. We must break with an eccentric vision of so-called republican equality. The effective integration of the West Indies into the Caribbean basin is a due, an inevitable natural process, which is a matter of common sense. Why do you want to upset this evolution? Air fares must be adjusted to meet the needs of our economy. The mobility policy must be a tool to get out of the exclusive colonial regime, decreed by Colbert and which continues today! It should encourage the development of business flows between the Caribbean Islands. A plane ticket from Fort-de-France to Pointe-à-Pitre or Cayenne now reaches disproportionate, exorbitant prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u31	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u32	A systemic, responsive and efficient employment policy must be innovative. We must act on the levers offered by our territories: they have the resources to build their future. A nomenclature adapted to our economic fabric can ensure the sustainability of our companies. These companies themselves must be sanctuated, protected against unfair winding-up, and also lead to the non-payment of their contributions and employer charges within the prescribed period, liquidations which very often result either from the boycott of the banks or from delays or even from defaults in the payment of State or exsangue authorities. A systemic, appropriate and efficient employment policy must be endogenous, in order to create a viable socio-economic model, integrating our particularities, based on the recognition of local actors and their legitimacy to live and flourish at home, as well as on the valuing of territorial expertise in the formulation of development policies. Stop believing that all the benefits, all the blessings will fall from Paris!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u33	Thank you for concluding...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr Boris Vallaud also applauds]] Yes, Mr. President. Emblem of a dominant schizophrenic model, copy and paste national policies is an absurdity in these resilient territories, which are able to take charge of their harmonious development. Let us keep in mind this quotation from an illustrious Martinique who preceded me on these benches, Aimé Césaire: "A civilization that cunning with its principles is a moribund civilization. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u35	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u36	Employment policy and thus the fight against mass unemployment are a major challenge for our country and one of the priorities of this five-year period, as the challenges we face are considerable. In addition to these challenges, there are economic, technological, digital and environmental changes that need to be anticipated, because that is how we will guarantee the jobs of tomorrow. We need to be responsive, and to live up to the expectations of our fellow citizens. We must therefore continue with the reforms that have imposed on us. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Reforming employment policy is above all to combat precariousness and therefore poverty, but above all to give everyone the chance to have access to a professional future where everyone can flourish fully. For more than two years now, the Government has carried out major reforms: I am thinking of the ordinances of the labour law, the reform of the social dialogue or the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises – the PACTE law – which has simplified the lives of businesses and contributed to the strengthening of growth. All these levers have enabled the creation of many jobs and the revitalization of the economy of our territories. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very clear observation today. The results are there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u37	Precariousness, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u38	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Over 500,000 jobs have been created in the last two years. The industry has been recruiting again, since 2018, after about 15 years of almost uninterrupted decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u39	And there's another 300,000 poor people. It's all right, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u40	Investments, contrary to what has been said, are increasing. Yes, they're growing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u41	It's all right, Mrs. Marquise! Anyway, there was nothing before you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u42	Happy New Year 2020!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u44	The unemployment rate reached its lowest point since the 2008 crisis in the second quarter of 2019. The employment rate in open-ended contracts – CDI – continues to rise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u45	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u46	Modesty stifles you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u47	A stable employment policy involves sustainable measures, with the objective of sustainable employment. That is why our majority has supported the Government in its reform of vocational training and apprenticeship, a true Copernician revolution that has placed the individual at the heart of his career path, giving everyone the opportunity and the means to choose their future. Investment in skills is a major lever for sustainable employment and contributes to the fight against mass unemployment. The resources deployed are unprecedented: I am thinking, among other things, of the skills investment plan, amounting to EUR 15 billion over five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u48	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u49	It would be indecent to get better!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u50	Investing in vocational training also means working for the most vulnerable and far from employment: that is social justice. It is also a solution to this paradox which has lasted too long: the coexistence of unemployment and of many occupations in tension, of thousands of jobs not filled, because of lack of adequate skills but also because of the mobility difficulties which we are trying to respond to thanks to the aid of the driver's licence for apprentices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u51	When there are no subways, you see the whole point of passing the driver's license...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u52	I therefore welcome the choices that have been made, particularly with regard to young people, whose unemployment rate is constantly falling. Again, it's a first.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u53	That's a provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u54	The number of apprentices has increased significantly, as has the number of CFAs. In addition, in order to strengthen the creation of sustainable jobs, we have provided important resources with the mechanisms that work, which produce results: the integration through economic activity, the schools of second chance, the guarantee of young people. This year's generalisation of open jobs is a strong signal to young people living in neighbourhoods, who must be admitted that people are still too often and unfortunately victims of discrimination. Yes, this majority supports the Government's policy, an ambitious and proactive, forward-looking policy that responds to the challenges of the current labour market. In view of their positive results, these measures and reforms will now require an in-depth evaluation, including the recent mobile application of the Personal Training Account. In conclusion, I would like to stress the crucial importance of strengthening the public employment service...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u55	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u56	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] ... as well as our accompanying policy, including through professional development advice. These are two essential conditions for the efficiency of the policy pursued for more than two years, and I hope that the Government will continue to commit itself to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u57	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will excuse me for speaking from my bench. Once it is not customary: while trying to do prevention, I have unfortunately increased the number of accidents at work in this country by one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u59	We've got to grab the CHSCT! It's true, there's no more...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u60	We wish you a speedy recovery, Minister. Very sincerely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u61	Thank you. I don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u62	In any case, the Government's policy is not going to work again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u63	I begin by wishing you all, as well as your collaborators, an excellent year 2020. I thank the groups La République en marche, La France insoumis et Socialistes et alliedes, thanks to which three debates on the field of work will follow this afternoon. This week of parliamentary scrutiny gives me the opportunity to highlight the first fruits of a policy in which the President of the Republic, the Government and the majority have committed themselves with vigour: a policy of fighting fatality. I remember very well that two and a half years ago we were told that 9% or 9.5% was the structural unemployment rate in France. We did not believe in this fatality, we did not resign and we prove it, step by step. These discussions also give me the opportunity to share with you the implementation of the measures. I only believe in what is coming to an end: we need laws, but above all we need to implement them, to bring something to our fellow citizens, on the ground. Once again, our convictions are well established: mass unemployment is not a fatality; no one is unemployable; private economic actors must be accompanied by vigorous and sometimes corrective public policies. This implies a certain method, which involves a lot of work on the ground – you have mentioned the question of the territories several times and I will come back to it – and a lot of dialogue with the actors, with the citizens. We can innovate. As part of the skills investment plan, for example, a group of concerned citizens – young people who have never worked, long-term unemployed, people in employment – evaluates the programmes that are being offered. New tools give companies, associations and trainers the means to move forward faster. Finally, I believe that experimentation and evaluation are essential. Where are we? The first results are positive, encouraging, but we have not reached the end of the road. As citizens, we can rejoice for the country's creation of net jobs: 540,000 jobs in two and a half years, as Fadila Khattabi pointed out, of which 258000 in 2019. This growth in employment is linked to the better health of economic actors, businesses, but also to the more favourable environment resulting from public policies, ordinances reforming the labour code, the CAPTE law, reductions in charges and taxes. What is interesting is that this job creation takes place in a context where economic growth is richer in jobs than in the past, according to experts. Our aim is, of course, to transform this growth into jobs. I agree with you that the unemployment rate is still far too high in our country, but it has risen from 9.6% to 8.6%, which is its lowest level in ten years. That is not enough, but it is encouraging and we do not intend to leave it there. Contrary to what some say, these are not just statistics: they are men and women, 300,000 job seekers who have returned to work, 300,000 families whose lives have changed. That is what we must salute. [[Smile]] Francis Vercamer and Stéphane Viry rightly pointed out this paradox: one in two companies has difficulty recruiting, either because the skills they are looking for are not available, because the supply does not match demand, or because of mobility, childcare or other issues. So there's still something to do, but if you allow me to express it, we still have it under our feet – the one I haven't broken. In terms of learning, I would like to stress, after Fadila Khattabi, Carole Grandjean and Patrick Loiseau, that we are in a historical dynamic: 458000 apprentices in June, this is the most important figure France has ever seen. I'm sure we have to and we can go even further.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u64	Some regions had still worked well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u65	Some regions had worked well; Others have seen their number of apprentices drop sharply. The results were very uneven across regions. For example, on 26 November last, I was in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques to meet the directors of the 150 CFA, who are very involved: the department saw the number of its apprentices increase by 19% in a year. This number is also increasing for rural family homes: we were told that we would kill learning in the rural sector, on the contrary, it is in full development. The same is true for companions of duty – 27% increase –, chambers of trade, industry – 10% increase. Unfortunately, this expansion takes place in spite of the regions: in 2019, almost all of them reduced their CFA subsidies, brutally, while learning was fully within their competence and they had more money than ever to spend on it. We have had to remedy a number of malfunctions due to this. As Carole Grandjean pointed out, we are opening even more the doors of learning to young people with disabilities. Much remains to be done, but we have been able to do so thanks to the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. Among the new features, let's mention the launch, on November 21, of the My Training Account app. This new public service offers for the first time a real right to training. Our citizens, without prior authorisation, will be able to exercise their right to training directly. This right is essential at a time when changes are constantly evolving. Some doubted the reaction of the French, but on 3 January, six weeks later, the application had already been downloaded 750,000 times and 58,000 people were enrolled in training cycles. This is a good thing for our country, and especially for our fellow citizens. These excellent figures invite us to continue our commitment. I would now like to develop a number of points which will allow me to begin to answer the questions asked, which we can then go into in depth during the question-and-answer session. First of all, we must consolidate and amplify the operational implementation of these transformations. Some subjects are of direct concern to citizens and territorial services pay particular attention on the ground to their implementation. Learning is one. The competence investment plan, Mrs Fadila Khattabi recalled, represents an unprecedented investment of EUR 15 billion, but it is above all its benefits for our citizens that matter. However, in 2019, 451000 people entered training, which is a strong increase, knowing that acquiring skills is an extremely important key to fighting unemployment. The unemployment rate is 6% for qualified people in France and 2.8% for managers. On the other hand, 18 per cent of those without qualifications are in precarious jobs, with the least paid and least likely. To fight for skills is to fight for employment, social promotion and the right of everyone to evolve in his or her working life. Francis Vercamer rightly stressed the importance of stepping up our work to develop skills to combat unemployment. Of course, this commitment must be linked to economic challenges in order to be effective. This is why the measures in the skills investment plan to accompany ecological transition, digital transition and social innovation are crucial. I am thinking of the "100% inclusion" program for the most vulnerable or for the cooking schools, which allows those who need it most to benefit from the benefits of innovation. We operate a territorial differentiation within the framework of the competence investment plan. Jean-Philippe Nilor rightly pointed out the greater need for skills in areas in great difficulty where the unemployment rate is extremely high. For example, we spend 1.1 per cent of the total funds in the competence investment plan on Martinique, which, however, accounts for only 0.6 per cent of the French population. The results are on track, moreover, since we count 7400 entries in training, which far exceeds the objectives. If only for Martinique, we are contributing EUR 69 million to this plan, which is in addition to the efforts made by the regions. Among the measures designed to achieve our objectives are frank employment, the index of occupational equality, which I shall return to, the measures for the unemployment insurance of resignations and self-employed persons, and all the actions we take with young people who are unemployed and without qualifications. We have deconcentrated many activities with prefects who, thanks to the Employment Inclusion Fund, can play on the range of schemes and adapt them to the needs of the territories. Our second focus is on the efforts we must make to make growth more inclusive. Patrick Loiseau recalled the many inequalities that persist and the progress that remains to be made. Public action is necessary because market rules will not be enough to bring those furthest from them back to employment. It is up to us to give them their chance. As part of the national strategy to prevent and combat poverty, we are implementing an ambition pact for the integration through economic activity in the service of an inclusive society, dear to many of you, which was presented to the President of the Republic on 10 September in Bonneuil-sur-Marne. It should also be remembered that the Finance Act for 2020 provides for a massive increase in the financing of postal aid in the structures of integration through economic activity – IAE. For the first time, it will exceed EUR 1 billion. It is essential: no one is unemployable, but it sometimes takes a footstool – in terms of training, support, employment situation – to gain access to employment. The results of integration by the economy are excellent since two in three people succeed in obtaining a qualification and finding their way back to employment. The nation is making a real social investment there, with good reason. With regard to inclusion, since 1 January, we have been reforming the employment obligation of disabled workers – OETH – and we are continuing our commitment to "Going towards inclusive business 2018-2022". Carole Grandjean spoke of this essential subject. The company is not inclusive enough today, especially for people with disabilities. On 12 July 2018, we signed with the National Union of Adapted Enterprises, APF France handicap and the Unapei – National Union of Associations of Parents, Persons with Mental Disabilities and Their Friends – an ambitious plan to increase the number of adapted jobs from 40000 to 80000. His execution will depend on our success. I shall return to the progress made in the field of free employment, which has been widespread since 1 January in all the priority areas of the city, as well as on the skills employment routes, in full speed, the youth guarantee or the increased efforts towards local missions, the schools of second chance, the EPIDE – Establishment for integration into employment – or the production schools, if you wish. Joël Aviragnet and others cited the experiment as "long-term zero-unemployed territories". My department's budget reflects our support for this approach, primarily funded by the Department of Labour. Credit increases sharply for 2020. The local mobilization of local elected officials and economic actors, as you pointed out, is particularly interesting. As with any experiment that is only midway through, we must take a step backwards to evaluate it, improve it, share the diagnosis. To this end, on 25 November I brought together the project's initiators and a scientific committee as well as inspectors of the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs. They conducted three evaluations that we faced. This is an unprecedented and interesting approach because we do not usually work this way. They are thinking about a diagnosis that I wish to share as much as possible in order to be able, within a few weeks, to propose ways of evolution and development of this experiment. Finally, in order to continue the fight against insecurity and remove barriers to employment, we must empower the actors. This morning were published 563912 job offers on Pôle Emploi. How can they be filled? This volume of offers is very large but many remain unfilled. Applications are just as important and do not always meet an offer. President Philippe Vigier highlighted the great differences between the territories in this area. In metropolitan France, the unemployment rate can rise from 6 per cent to 14 per cent from one department to another, exceeding 20 per cent in several overseas departments. In all cases, these figures double for young people. Beyond the actions we are taking in the territories, the reform of unemployment insurance will help to mobilise levers for action, in particular by offering much more tailor-made services to businesses and jobseekers. The experiments carried out in Nice in this respect, in terms of job offers, have proved successful and we will generalise them in the context of the reform of unemployment insurance. The process began on 1 January 2020 and we will continue throughout the year. Offers will be made in an earlier and more intensive manner to job seekers as well as to businesses, so that, if they have not found them after 30 days, they can benefit from increased aid. Since January 1st, the bonus-malus system on precarious jobs and half-times has been installed as well as the CDDU tax – so-called fixed-term contracts of use – that you voted in the finance law. These measures will enable us to better combat excessive insecurity. Indeed, it is abnormal and shocking that 87% of employment contracts are short or acting CSDs. We want to empower employers in this regard. Regarding the territorial approach, I will respond to Philippe Vigier and many of you whom I launched with Agnès Pannier-Runacher and Emmanuelle Wargon, under the auspices of the Prime Minister, a Tour de France des solutions. We have collected some 50 particularly innovative practices, involving all economic actors, local elected representatives, the employment sector and other actors in employment. This is important because the barriers to the recovery of employment vary from one territory to another. The problem of competence is recurrent in all territories, but mobility may be of particular importance in some, while others will be more affected by accommodation when employment is mostly seasonal, or childcare, which prevents many women from returning to work. The various solutions that emerge at the local level are valuable and are intended to be developed throughout the territory. I'm just going to work for the seniors. We will come back to this in a few moments but also in the coming weeks. This is an essential subject of our policies, particularly in terms of the skills investment plan and the plan for inclusion in employment. The unemployment rate among older people, of the order of 6%, is below average, but older people who find themselves unemployed face the greatest difficulties in finding a job. This is a cultural problem in France: employers exclude young people and older people. We must not accept this French specificity as a fatality and will, on the contrary, continue to fight it. I'll come back. We will have the opportunity to discuss the subject of penitibility in the third debate, on the ordinances of the labour law. In the progress report on employment and purchasing power, we must not forget the obligation to achieve results in the area of occupational equality, which is enshrined in the law on freedom to choose one's professional future. All companies with more than 250 employees must calculate and publish their index of occupational equality between women and men. This obligation will be extended to 40,000 companies with more than 50 employees on 1 March. We have an important mechanism in place to support SMEs. With regard to companies with more than 250 employees, the first assessment shows the relevance of the index as it highlights what was expected: out of 7,000 companies, only 167 have 99 or 100 points, i.e. practice equality, while 17% are in the red zone and do not comply at all with this obligation. We will soon see what the second, more ambitious stage gives. We remain mobilized, especially since the draft law for equality between men and women in the economy, led by Bruno Le Maire and Marlène Schiappa, will offer us the opportunity to propose measures to develop women's economic capacities. I will say a word about our very strong ambition for social Europe and our desire to strengthen our national action. The European Pillar of Social Rights is an excellent basis for accelerating social convergence, which is a factor in the cohesion, albeit fragile, of the European Union. The negotiation of the posted workers directive was a first step. It will enter into force on 1 July 2020. We want to go further and work with the European Commission to ensure that all states have a minimum wage and to move forward negotiations on the revision of European social security regulations. We must not be content with the objective of equal pay for equal work, which is the meaning of the directive on posted workers: we must also achieve the principle of equal pay for equal work, which is far from being the reality. Finally, we encourage Europe to invest heavily in education and vocational training because we believe in the skills society; We believe that skills depend on the future of companies, employees and job seekers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As you can see, we support Auguste Comte's formula: "Resolve the present from the future deduced from the past. Let us not forget the past, which is the starting point, but let us go further in realizing our ambition: to make France, with its values and history, an ambitious social model, renovated, in line with the stakes of our time – in part those of yesterday, in part new. Together, we must make progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u66	We come to the questions, the duration of which, as well as the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right of reply. Mr Patrice Anato has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u67	The question of purchasing power and the possibility of living through its work are at the heart of the concerns of our fellow citizens and of the democratic debate in our country. In the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy – QPV – employment is, as elsewhere, a concern, but the problem is all the more relevant as the number of jobseekers is twice the national average, up to 31.7% for those with a level below or equal to the baccalaureate. In addition to these difficulties, there is discrimination in hiring, which makes it more difficult for a person in the QPV population to enter the labour market than for another citizen on an equal degree, age and career path. It seems that the frank job scheme has found a favourable response, two years after it was introduced on an experimental basis, but without achieving its full effect. The upsurges indicate difficulties for associations and small structures as a result of the reduction in assisted contracts, which affects their ability to employ people who are often very far from employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u68	In other words, you got yelled! Welcome to real life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u69	Here's someone who cares about his riding!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u70	Although assisted jobs have had a measurable effect on unemployment and vocational training, these returns show that difficulties in accessing employment remain in these neighbourhoods. Minister, in view of these perfectable advances, what new steps should be expected in employment policy with regard to priority neighbourhoods and how can we monitor and direct employment policies directed towards the population of these neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u71	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u72	You are right, Mr. Anato: people living in the QPVs have an activity rate of 59%, compared to 72% for other neighbourhoods, and they often have a lower level of qualification and purchasing power, with less access to qualification. What levers have we operated? First of all, we have made a special effort under the Skills Investment Plan: 13.7% of training entries now involve people residing in QPV, as well as 7% of apprenticeship entries, which is one more point than before. We want to go further by developing an offer in the QPVs: this is the meaning of the mission that I entrusted to Patrick Toulmet, interdepartmental delegate for the development of learning in the priority areas of city policy. Youth from QPVs account for 30% of second chance school enrolment...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u73	They're 15 years old!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u74	... and 29% of young people accompanied by EPIDE. Free jobs were generalized to all QPVs and more than 18,000 contracts were signed as of December 31, 2019, of which 80% were CDI. Indeed, if there is real discrimination in hiring, conscious or unconscious, it is possible to unblock things by simply putting the company in contact with the people concerned. For this reason, we are working to establish clubs "France, a chance. Companies are committed! In all departments – they already exist in more than eighty of them and involve 7,000 companies. The particular effort we make towards the QPVs is to give these young people the opportunity to find an internship or an apprenticeship, which they often fail to get on their own because of a lack of network.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u75	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u76	The key is to shorten the circuit between the company and the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods, which gives them a real chance and makes city politics a real lever for employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u77	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u78	In equivalent positions and experience, women earn 12.8 per cent less than men. They are less likely to hold paid positions and are less represented than men in sectors of activity with the highest average wages. Fewer women are managers and their professional experience is less valued. In the context of the current pension reform, which aims to create a fairer and more equitable system, it seems to me important to recall that these wage inequalities are reflected in pensions at the time of retirement. There is currently a 42 per cent difference between the amount of a man's pension and that of a woman. The law of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future created an index of professional equality between women and men with the aim of eradicating gender inequalities in the world of work by 2022. Since last September, companies employing more than 250 employees have been required to publish their notes. Those who score less than 75 in 100 are subject to a financial penalty. But while companies with a score of 99 out of 100 are rare, there are also few companies outside the nails: only 17% of companies score less than 75 points. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister, the rapid state of the professional inequalities between women and men that I have just drawn up is eloquent. My question is: How do you explain that the marks obtained by the companies do not reflect this state of affairs? And how can this indicator be made more effective, in order to make it a real tool for equal pay for women and men?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u79	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u80	Let's be clear: equality is 100 out of 100. In fact, only 167 out of 7000 companies scored 99 or 100 points. So the others have not achieved equality. Therefore, contrary to what some claim, the index unfortunately reflects very well the reality of wage and career inequalities. I would point out that the index is based on five criteria: equal pay for equal work, the same opportunities for career progression, the same opportunities for pay increases, compliance with the law which requires the return of maternity leave to be increased by the average of increases over the period, and the number of women among the ten highest earnings. The 17% of companies you are talking about – which is already a very important figure – are on red alert and need to react urgently. But the others must also act: 167 good companies to keep up with and remain models, and all the others, who have to make progress. You're asking the question of means. First of all, the fact that the index has been included in the law, both internally and vis-à-vis the social partners and management, to whom detailed information is provided, as well as externally, has already produced effects. Some entrepreneurs have thus discovered the existence of discrimination which they did not want, but which they did not care about either. In addition, the publication of the index will have an impact on the attraction of talent: while one in two companies has difficulty recruiting, I assure you that the most unequal companies will quickly experience difficulties, especially since the best rated will make it an argument for recruitment. As far as smaller enterprises are concerned, the main challenge is to support companies with more than 50 employees, who will have to publish their index as of 1 March next. A total of 4.5 million women will see significant improvements in their wages or careers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u81	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u82	Madam Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the automation of supermarkets, particularly as part of an opening on Sundays. In my department, in Haute-Loire, the Casino group announced last month the establishment of an experiment aimed at opening the Giant hypermarket of Vals-near-le-Puy without staff, only with automatic caisses. This decision was strongly challenged by the hypermarket employees, who organised a demonstration last Sunday to denounce the impact on the future of their jobs. Let us not forget: a trade is also a social bond. Thanks to the local mobilization, as well as the valuable support of the president of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpe Laurent Wauquiez region, this decision was finally suspended. However, the Casino group does not question the principle of "automatic whole" experimentation. Minister, the sustainability of this decision would further weaken the local trade. It is clear that downtown and downtown businesses, the heart of local life, will suffer from this unfair competition. It is also a matter of responsibility for all of us, a duty as a citizen. The generalization of automatic funds in supermarkets dehumanizes the commercial relationship: an automatic fund replaces about 100 jobs, but it does not replace listening or human dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u84	At the same time, while the terrorist threat remains current, the reduction of security personnel is a problem. Minister, what is the Government's position on opening supermarkets on Sundays? How can we ensure that it does not make too much competition for local businesses and does not lead to the massive elimination of existing jobs? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Minister, what do you want to offer future generations: is it a dehumanized society in which the human being takes the lead? This society, the French do not want it; we see this every day through the need to return to the sources of the younger generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u85	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u86	The Sunday Labour Act is clear and I believe we share the meaning of it: it provides that, except for food businesses, which are allowed to open on Sunday mornings, and trades with special hardships, Sunday is a day when we do not work. The other shops cannot therefore be opened on Sundays, except within the framework of the twelve days granted by the mayor. The novelty of the subject you are referring to is the fact that some signs have decided to open Sunday afternoon without staff to the caisses – security personnel being allowed to work on Sundays, for obvious reasons. The first time this happened, the labour inspector went to see if anyone was working, not in the shelving, or in the crates. Indeed, in a large area, there are not just security guards and I assure you that we will be intractable on the respect of the law: a security guard is not a hostess, it does not have to answer the customers, nor to place the products fallen in the shelves. Other issues arise, such as the development of large-scale distribution, which has important employment implications. Since you have alluded to the positive policy pursued by the regional council of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, let me say that we must also be coherent. Thus, I regret that the region has reduced the number of training courses for job seekers by 64% since 2015: while it was the first region in France for the training of job seekers – Auvergne and Rhône-Alpes combined – it is now only the eleventh.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u87	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u88	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] While employment in supermarkets must be defended, the most vulnerable must also be defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u90	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u91	Madam Minister, for my part, I wish to warn you about what companies call the Pénicaud tax on the ground. It will not have escaped you that, since 1 January last, under an article of the Finance Law 2020, a fee of 10 euros must be paid at the signature of any CDD of use...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u92	That's really the minimum!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u93	... whatever the company – hotel, coffee, caterer, brewery, reception organizer... – and regardless of the duration of the contract – a few hours or a few days. For months, companies have been alerting you to the concrete consequences of this tax, relayed by members of the Republican Group and the UDI-Agir Group in particular. We fought the creation of this tax last fall in the debate on the finance bill, but, as often, unfortunately, you didn't want to hear anything. If I return to the burden today, it is because of a new element which has not, I think, completely escaped you: because of the unfortunate method which led the Government to propose a pseudo-reform of pensions, our country is experiencing a lot of blockages and strikes. For companies, it is therefore the double penalty: to the Pénicaud tax is added a considerable decrease in turnover, due to the blockages. As you will have understood, I call on you here to show common sense, to adapt this mechanism, to submit a bill to remove the tax or at least to change its date of entry into force. Thus, companies will no longer be subjected to double penalties, all the more absurd because they will not create any jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u94	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u95	No caterer, no restaurant will miraculously "send" an employee he hires today in extra contract! The Pénicaud tax illustrates the method followed by the Macron government: a technocratic method, disconnected from economic issues and from the ground. You look up to heaven, Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u96	We all look up to heaven!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u97	...it is a reality on the ground of which we are the spokesperson.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u98	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u99	Why the tax? I repeat: it is because the private sector does not do so on its own initiative that the public authorities regulate the massive use of precarious employment. The other European countries do not have such a high rate of precarious employment. It is therefore not an economic fatality. When 87% of hires are in very short or acting CSDs, when a third of the CSDs are concluded for a period of one day or less, when the number of usage CSDs explodes – they represented 8 million of the country's 37 million hires in 2017 – it is that something is not going wrong in the labour market. I regret that public authorities are obliged to regulate; Only when regulation does not set up itself, it is its role to bring about a change in the behaviour of the actors, by means of incentives and, sometimes, penalising measures. With regard to the usual CSD tax, the measure that we have included in the law provides that if there is a branch agreement that improves the situation of persons hired in the usual CSD – for example by granting bonuses, access to training or the possibility of being hired in the CDI after several contracts in the CSD – then companies can escape the tax. You like me, we cannot consider the situation normal when someone signs 54 or even 180 successive contracts! I think the labour market can be organized differently – and I have enough experience to say it pragmatically, without technocratism. I believe that we are really capable of acting on this issue. For example, since the movers' branch has signed an agreement, they will not be taxed on the usual CSDs. This tax therefore seems to me an incentive for social dialogue and accountability, two requirements on which we can all agree. On the other hand, like you, I deplore not the strike – it is an absolute right – but the blockages which, for several weeks, have endangered the activity of artisans and traders. My colleague Bruno Le Maire is taking important action on this subject. I would also like to remind companies that we can help them very quickly in the event of partial unemployment, in twenty-four or forty-eight hours, because we are obviously accompanying them at this extremely difficult time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u100	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u101	The Group of the Democratic Movement is very committed to training, especially for those furthest from employment, as it gives everyone access to the social elevator, thus ensuring the sustainability of our societal system. In recent years, statistical data on social reproduction in France have been worrisome. A report by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development published in June 2018 thus sounded the alarm: people at the bottom of the income scale are unlikely to climb the ranks, especially in France. After house arrest, it is the low-skilled and low-paid job assignment that must be addressed. In this context, training must be a priority. Although the absence of diplomas and training is certainly a handicap to access to the world of work, obtaining a general baccalaureate, unlike that of a CAP or a BEP, is in no way a guarantee of practical skills for obtaining a job. CAPs and BEPs are indeed qualifying training courses which give access to the skill investment plan, the CIP, which is not allowed by the baccalaureate, even though bachelors without qualifications have great difficulty in entering the labour market. It is a paradox of the labour law that we have adopted. That is why I would like, Madam Minister, to allow holders of a general baccalaureate without qualifications to have access to ICP training. Is it possible to expand the public benefiting from this fund?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u102	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u103	You are right: for two or three decades, the social elevator has largely broken down in our country. It takes about six generations for our fellow citizens among the poorest 10 per cent to reach the average income level. Therefore, skills are a key topic for them. To get out of poverty, the two main levers are initial training, which you mentioned, and continuing training. In a society in which trades evolve as long as one in two people change within 10 years and each will exercise four or five in his or her life, continuing training is as important as initial training, of which he or she is complementary. It is for this reason that we are putting the learning package, if you will allow me to express it. I would point out that two thirds of young apprentices find a job within six months and, among others, many continue their training at a higher level. The priority is to give a qualification to those who do not, regardless of their level of education. The levels below the ferry, which have often been abandoned – especially in some regions – are particularly affected. But the operational preparation for employment – POE – provided for in the ICP and provided by Pôle Emploi, is also open to holders of a general qualification without a vocational qualification because in this case it is indeed very difficult to find a job. Although, by way of derogation, some regions may assign an OEP, the demand is mainly from the Employment Department. In any case, it is open to holders of a general baccalaureate without qualifications.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u104	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u105	My question, which concerns the employment of seniors, is not unrelated to that of pensions. In our country, the employment rate for 60-64-year-olds is low: just over 33% in 2018, compared to 77% for 50-59-year-olds. In its reference on the career ends of employees, published in October 2019, the Court of Auditors is concerned about the risk of precariousness for older people, who are the most excluded from the labour market, causing an increasing cost for solidarity in benefits and social minimums. Today, more than 900000 people over the age of 50 are registered in Category A jobs, a figure which has more than doubled in ten years. Adding those in categories B and C who are in reduced employment, there are more than a million older people in employment. There are now more unemployed seniors: in their case, conventional breakdowns are often a disguised and wild way of putting them in early retirement. There are also more long-term unemployed seniors: the Directorate for Research, Studies and Statistics, DARES, indicates that seniors are proportionally more often in this situation than the rest of the population: 63 % of those over 55 have been unemployed for more than a year, whereas this rate is only 42 % for all unemployed. There is more precariousness among older people, who are proportionally those most often employed in part-time jobs: nearly a quarter of those over 55 are in part-time employment, compared with only 18.5% of workers. Finally, there is also more poverty among seniors. According to the latest presentation by the Pension Guidance Board, the poverty rate of unemployed people aged 50 to 69 is 41 per cent, compared with only 5 per cent for other pensioners. Thus, my question is simple: what are you going to do in practice to remedy this deteriorating situation and to keep older people in employment? What measures will you take to prevent work wear and tear and hardness at work? Can you also tell us, Madam Minister, how many employees benefited from the professional account of prevention, the "penitibility account", in 2018, after you changed the criteria of penitibility?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u106	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u107	The subject you mentioned was raised yesterday with the social partners at the Ministry of Labour, when the consultation on the penitibility and employment of older people was launched. Approximately two-thirds of the 55-59 age group is active. This is the European average and given the particular incapacity or conditions of employment of some, this rate can be considered to be relatively high. But you are right: it is quite different for the 60-64 year olds, whose participation rate is only one third. Similarly, it is true that the long-term unemployment rate is very high among seniors. If there is less risk of being unemployed at this stage of his career, it is extremely difficult to get out of it if this happens. This is therefore a real challenge, which we must integrate into our reflection on the employment of older people, whether it is employment policy or pension reform. Several actions have already been taken. Within the framework of ICP, 24% of training applications are for older job-seekers. Many of the people hired by a group of employers are seniors. The job path skills, a kind of improved assisted contract, accompanied by training and support, is followed by 34% of seniors, who are also very present in the integration schemes through economic activity. This is a very important issue, because it affects the level of poverty: in fact, older people are often part-time or in precarious jobs, and can therefore find themselves in poverty. That is why yesterday we opened consultations with the social partners on this subject. We will see each other throughout the week and discuss this priority topic next Tuesday. Beyond common law actions, which allow more older people to be welcomed, we must go further, towards structural change. There is also a need to change the behaviour of companies, which are still too far away. Our society must recognize the value of experience: we cannot at the same time exclude young people on the pretext that they would not have enough experience and seniors because they would have too many! Experienced people have a lot to contribute to society and businesses: this will be the subject of consultation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u108	Mr Stéphane Demilly has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u109	Minister, the debate on pension reform has sprung up in recent weeks – and it's not over! It has had an impact on our economic fabric and has greatly disrupted the French, especially in their travels for the end-of-year celebrations. The age of equilibrium at 64 is one of the blocking points crystallizing tensions. But it is still necessary to reach this age in employment! According to a recent report by the Court of Auditors, which my colleague Régis Juanico also mentioned, the employment rate of employees aged 55-64 was 52% in early 2019. Although it has progressed for twenty years, it remains one of the lowest in Europe – a sad record that we would do well. So far, the various mechanisms have not proved to be indisputably effective, and this, in fact, regardless of the governments that have established them. In the Chamber, we all have in mind the testimonies of older people who have left the job and who, despite active research, do not find employers ready to hire them after a few years of retirement. The Court of Auditors has alerted us to the risk of impoverishment of this population, whose number of jobseekers has tripled since 2008. In the course of the budget debates, our group was concerned that the budget for the "Work and Employment" mission only partially responds to the question of the employment of older people, because it is a challenge that we must face without delay. [[Mr. Francis Vercamer applauds]] Madam Minister, you just announced yesterday that broad guidelines on this matter would be included in the pension reform bill, which is expected to be presented to the Council of Ministers on January 24. Sophie Bellon's report on the employment of seniors, whose proposals are to be made public next week, is expected to lead to discussions. Madam Minister, do you think that two weeks will be enough to reach agreement on this matter and find a compromise? Can you already give us a detailed account of the Government's first lines of thought?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u110	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u111	Yesterday, we agreed with the social partners that three levers were needed on this issue. First of all, cultural change in companies. There is a need to change the approach to the employment of older people and to highlight what they can do in large companies, but also in SMEs and the community. Then, gradual retirement. If it only affects very few people in France because of several obstacles that we will seek to lift, it is the subject of a strong social aspiration. Finally, an employment policy based on more and more effective incentives and support for the employment of older people. We will receive Sophie Bellon's report next Tuesday. Once it was not customary, I proposed that it be handed over at the same time to the Government and the social partners. We will of course not solve everything in fifteen days, but with the social partners, we hope that the broad guidelines and the first lines of action can be drawn up quickly, so that the main themes will be integrated into the reflection from the beginning of the parliamentary debate. In the following weeks, we will refine and document them to give them a legal basis. There will still be work to be done, but within two or three weeks we should already have an overview of the most important steps we can take.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u112	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u113	Minister, I wish you a happy 2020 and a speedy recovery. Even if you have already partially answered the question, I would like to ask you about the long-term zero-unemployed territories. I stress that this is an effective means of combating structural unemployment. I would like to associate my two colleagues Yves Daniel and Gaël Le Bohec, also deputies of the country of Redon, where the municipalities of Pipriac and Saint-Ganton conduct a very interesting experiment. Their zero-unemployed territory works well because it is a project in which entrepreneurs, elected representatives, associations and institutions have been involved. So it's a real common project, and it works. This is a very positive experience: I have met people who have thus regained dignity, confidence in their abilities, but also the esteem of their children – because earning bread is something other than living on social assistance. It turns out that my constituency includes the community of communes of L'Oust in Broceliande, who submitted his candidacy to experiment with the zero-unemployed scheme. First of all, I would like to stress the conditions for success: it must really be a territorial project, which means allowing the territories to organize themselves in part by providing them with flexibility. I will then insist on the evaluation of the device. We have heard disturbing comments. On the one hand, some had conducted an erroneous estimate of the number of full-time equivalents – FTEs. On the other hand, not all territories had been assessed. I know, however, that the person in charge whom you have appointed has moved to Pipriac and Saint-Ganton for this purpose. My question is simple: are the first estimates of the results positive, as I hope? If that is the case, what schedule are you considering to respond to the 100 territories that have applied to become zero-unemployed territories in 2020 – or in 2021, if the process is lagging behind?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u114	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u115	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u116	This topic is of greatest interest because it focuses on real innovation, which is also rooted in local and territorial mobilization. As you know, I went to Pipriac myself – I don't just read reports, I go mostly to the field! This allowed me to see how essential it was to mobilize all partners by local elected officials. To date, we have received three evaluations: one conducted by the General Inspectorate of Finance – IGF – and the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – IGAS – the other by an independent firm of experts and the third by the association responsible for the project itself. I met Laurent Grandguillaume and Louis Gallois so that we could discuss them together. We first found that the heterogeneity of the territories led to very different situations, for example between a rural territory in which everyone knows each other and a priority area of city politics. This does not mean that the device is not relevant in both cases: it simply covers a different reality. This confirms that a great deal of organizational flexibility is needed – as you pointed out – and means that the project does not have the same nature depending on the territory. Secondly, field experiments reveal the relative difficulty of implementing the scheme. It is necessary to find activities which meet social needs which are not covered but do not compete with local activities, in particular craft or small business, in order not to destroy merchant employment. The peak line to be borrowed requires governance very close to the ground and very fine. The evaluation also informed us about the financial return of the scheme. The starting hypothesis was to transform expenditure on aid, considered passive, into so-called active expenditure. It is better to be paid for his work than to be assisted: it gives dignity, brings a higher income and improves the social bond. However, the current cost of the scheme amounts to EUR 18,000 per person per year for the Ministry of Labour, to which EUR 5000 should be added at start-up. The various evaluations refer to different amounts but, in any event, the scheme is far from achieving the expected return. This does not mean that such a social investment should not be made; However, this is important in view of a change in the scale of the scheme. That is why, under the 2020 budget, we decided to double the effort by extending the experiment, which concerns 900 FTEs today, to an additional 1000 FTEs. Above all, we work with the actors, drawing on experience, to determine the conditions for the success of the scheme and to broaden it with full knowledge of the cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u117	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u118	I wish you good health, minister. I confess that I was shocked to hear you use the term attendance; I don't like that vocabulary. There are no attendees in France, there are recipients of social assistance. Maybe there's some help elsewhere... I'm coming to my question. For several months now, the Government has been bragging at the fact that, I quote, it has significantly improved the labour market. The President of the Republic promised to reduce the unemployment rate to 7 per cent by the end of his term of office. As often, these elements of language hide a somewhat different reality. My colleagues will come back to this in the next debate on the policy to combat unemployment. These announcements often conceal very short contracts or training periods. No matter how much we read the figures published by INSEE or Pôle Emploi: no one can deny that unemployment remains at an abnormally high level in France. This observation, of which I am sure we all share, raises a question: why, while 6 million people are still unemployed in France, do you want to make the workers work longer? Why, by introducing a point pension with a pivotal age, do you want to force people to work up to 64, 65 or even 67 years or more, to receive a decent pension, while so many others, younger and available to work, simply do not find employment? Why postpone the age at which it is possible to receive a pension without discount, even though older people who are far from employment already face great difficulties in returning to work? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I will not repeat Mr Demilly's excellent question on this subject – to which I must say, Madam Minister, with all due respect, that your answer was singularly lacking in tone. You mentioned the need to change culture, but the problem remains. You seem to be very helpless in the face of the problem we face. These questions often come back and never find an answer in your ranks. Indeed, there is no honest answer other than that of recognizing that by extending the length of life at work, as you wish to do, you will mechanically increase the number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u119	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u120	I share a small part of your observation: the unemployment rate remains very high in France and we must, and can, succeed in bringing it down. However, you forgot to mention that he had already diminished well. The achievement of the lowest unemployment rate in the last ten years is certainly not a final victory that can be glorified; However, one can be satisfied with a step result for the 300,000 job seekers who have returned to work. You link the unemployment rate to working hours. This reminds me of the debates that took place when the 35-hour law was passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u121	Eight hundred thousand jobs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u122	Some think that work is a kind of cake that we share,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u123	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u124	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ... whose value remains constant. This is not economic reality. There is a dynamic which allows, beyond the sharing of existing ones, to create new jobs. The same applies to working hours. I am sure that the French fully understand that one cannot have earned fifteen years of additional life expectancy in twenty or thirty years, without spending proportionally more time at work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u125	The executives may be, but there's the problem of penitibility!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u126	It's a matter of common sense. What is needed is to determine how to work in good health, how to live properly with a decent level of income. These are the questions that our fellow citizens are rightly asking. Everyone must contribute, during their working life, and work long enough for us to achieve our goal of maintaining a system by distribution in which the assets pay retirement for pensioners – unless you propose that the system be abandoned by distribution, but it seems to me that this was not the meaning of your intervention. We are all attached to this rare system. Few countries have such a solidarity-based pension system. Most have either a pure capitalization system – each for itself – or a mixed system combining a very small share of the distribution with a large share of the capitalization. You have to have the courage to say it. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, I am demeaning your false statements about a retirement age that would be pushed back to 67 years. On the contrary, we want to reduce the full retirement age to 64 years. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u127	Did you read the Delevoye report?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u128	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u129	Yes, job creation increased in 2019, from 188,000 in 2018 to 260,000. However, in this system of supply law, the fixed-term contract remains largely privileged, as has been pointed out, and the precariousness is growing. Yes, unemployment has fallen significantly, but it remains above the European average. The creation of enterprises inflates these figures, but two thirds of them disappear within three years of their creation. The CICE, which now takes the form of reductions in social contributions, will have cost 142 billion euros in the course of the quinquennium, for a low return on employment, and without compensation. At the same time, large companies are putting pressure on them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u130	It's Emmanuel Macron's policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u131	Auchan called the unions at the beginning of the week to discuss the possible abolition of 1000 posts. In the midst of pension reform, the question of employment arises more than ever. And because of this: the French are asked to work ever longer, to hold a few more years to hope for a full retirement. But what kind of policy does it exist for seniors? Is the current labour market really suitable for older people? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] According to INSEE figures, the employment rate for the 50-64 age group has improved. However, it is only 30% for the 60-64 age group, well below the European average. Prejudice, penitence, discrimination in hiring, remuneration are all problems or pretexts encountered by senior job seekers, while many have real know-how. The French are asked to work longer, but the current conditions of access to employment are not adapted to the older workers, a category which is very affected by the precarious situation. Asking them for an extra effort seems totally disconnected from reality. So, what employment policy for all those forgotten?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u132	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u133	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] You're asking important questions. Mr. Corbière was surprised that I wasn't more specific about the employment of seniors. That's because I believe a lot in social and economic dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u134	But what have you done for two years?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u135	We started our work yesterday and have leads. For my part, I will not announce them until we have co-built them; I'm not gonna get them out of my hat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u136	[[Smile]] Even from your hat retreat?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u137	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Some avenues have been proposed by the social partners, others by the Government, others will be the result of our joint work. This is how social and economic dialogue takes place. That is why I can now speak of major themes but not yet operational ones. We will receive a report on the subject next Tuesday. We are working with the social partners and I am convinced that solutions will be more interesting if they are built jointly rather than unilaterally, wherever they come from. You are right to point out, as I did earlier, that the participation rate of people aged 60 to 64 does not exceed 30%. You are still right to say that to satisfy people aged 60 to 64, many who wish to work without being able to do so, or who encounter difficulties in keeping their jobs, it is also necessary to change the work – which is also relevant to the question of penitibility. Today, among the 650,000 people who retire every year, 100,000 are disabled or partially incapacitated; It's a high figure. In the case of work-related disability, this demonstrates that prevention needs to be strongly strengthened. In our discussion with the social partners on penitibility, we agreed yesterday to recognize the absolute priority to be given to prevention. This is the subject on which we are the worst in France today. This does not mean that there is nothing else to do about retraining and reparation, but prevention will be an essential part of the project. Changing work also means changing the approach to recruitment. While one in two companies encounters difficulties in recruiting, especially the smallest, a number of them are beginning to consider changing their outlook on seniors, as we see in inclusive business clubs. Some elements will be included in the bill, while others will be the subject of commitments from partners. It seems to me that by linking penitibility, employment of seniors and pension reform, we have the means to take advantage of this reform to make significant progress in employment policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u138	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u139	It is to the French affected by unemployment that I wish to express my wishes for solidarity and courage, while having a special thought for our ultramarine compatriots, forgotten or despised in view of the scandalously higher unemployment rate they suffer. According to the majority, everything is best on the employment front in the best of globalisation. If you let yourself be fooled by the numbers of your language elements, it would seem that 260,000 jobs were created in 2019 and that unemployment has been at its lowest level in ten years. Of course, except for you, no one believes in it! We know the reality behind these announcements: when ten unemployed leave the statistics, only two people returned to work. The remaining eight were erased by write-off, failure to update, or due to nebulous or short-term reasons. Listening to you, you might think that this glamour in the fall in unemployment is going to get worse. With your latest accounting reform – which we call unfair and cynical, one more! –, which entered into force on 1 November last, you have indeed tightened access to unemployment benefits. In this way, you plan to mechanically reduce the number of unemployed people in receipt of benefits by 11%, which is 236000 people. In fact, these men and women, who are not just statistics and abstract data, will not have found a job while crossing the street. They will simply have ceased to be compensated, as already half of the unemployed in France. Would it have been better to declare the war on the unemployment of the elderly rather than at any cost to delay the retirement age of the French, as shown by your obsession, still repeated today, to work without limits in time. I would remind you that 68% of 60-64-year-olds do not have a job when they retire. With your famous pivotal age, you will make more unemployed and, of course, more poor. Minister, when are you going to tackle unemployment rather than the unemployed?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u140	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u141	To find solutions, it is necessary to start from the state of the art. What shocked me in your question is not that you call on us to mobilize for the employment of seniors – we all agree on these benches – but that you deny evidence and realities. You do not believe the statistics of job creation, which come from the INSEE: in practice, you therefore think that the INSEE investigators are trading the figures. You think the ACOSS, the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies, is working on the figures on contributions paid by businesses. At that time, we cannot make much progress in our country. If you don't trust independent organizations that produce statistics on job creation...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u142	I don't trust you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u143	It is not me or my firm that produces these figures, but ACOSS and INSEE, which are independent bodies – ACOSS is equal. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In order to find solutions – this is the whole issue of the debates between the Government and parliamentarians – we must first accept the reality of the facts, not say that the statistics are false when provided by independent bodies and that they have an exhaustive value, as is the case with job creation, and not oppose statistics and people. The presidential majority and I are proud that 300,000 job seekers have returned to work: for these 300,000 people, life has changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u144	The debate on employment policies is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u145	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u146	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u147	The next item is the questions on unemployment policy. I would point out that the Conference of Presidents has set a maximum of two minutes for each question and each answer, without the right to reply. Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u148	Minister for Labour, the reform of unemployment insurance is a real social disaster. Thousands of people will see their compensation reduced. In the name of what? While it took four months out of twenty-eight to qualify for unemployment benefits, it will now be necessary to have worked six months out of the last twenty-four months. From the first 12 months of its implementation, this measure will affect more than 710000 people. You remove the fee recharging mechanism, which allowed an unemployed person who would work for about a month to extend the period during which he was compensated. To minimize the hardness of your action, you claim that with this reform of unemployment insurance, "we simply go back to what happened ten years ago, before the crisis." That's not true! For example, the mechanism for recharging unemployment insurance entitlements is not a provision emerging from the crisis: it was introduced in 2014. In fact, the figures show a small decrease in unemployment but a marked increase in the precariousness of workers. Your policy is much more effective in getting the unemployed out of the job register than in actually enabling them to find one. Despite the extreme dedication of its agents, Pôle Emploi has become more the place to check that job search is frantic than the place where you are offered one. Earlier, my colleague Alexis Corbière asked you a question about senior unemployment and pension reform. Indeed, one in two workers at the age of retirement is no longer in employment, while our country has more than 300,000 unemployed people over the age of 60, the majority of whom have all their years of contributions. You simply said that you had to promote cultural change and that you didn't have all the recipes in your hat. I note, however, that when it comes to living hard for the unemployed, you do not lack inspiration! [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Earlier, you deplored with us the extreme precariousness of employment and the fact that 87% of contracts signed are short contracts – one third of these contracts last less than a day. So I want to ask you two questions, minister. For you, is CDI still the rule? If so, apart from the bonus-malus, what solution do you still have under your feet – I repeat your expression – to combat the excessive use of short contracts? What do you think, for example, of quotas that can be adjusted according to the size of the company?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u149	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u150	The first of the two topics you are addressing, Mr. Member, is the rules governing eligibility for unemployment insurance. After our reform, these rules remain, and this is deliberate on the part of the Government, among the most generous in Europe. It was previously necessary to have worked for at least four months in the last 28 months in order to be able to receive unemployment benefit at full rates, and it will now be six months worked in the previous 24 months. I would point out that in Spain or Germany, for example, we must have worked 12 months in the last 24 months, that is, every other day, compared to every other day in France. The minimum four-month membership rule dates back to 2009, and it must be understood that it was then entirely logical to have a regime adapted to a crisis context where there were very few job offers in a sluggish labour market. Returning to what had been decided at the time would certainly be extremely protective, but also unincentive while the context has changed. With regard to the current rules for recharging entitlements in the event of reduced activity, they make it possible to remain indefinitely unemployed, since I would remind you that one day worked is postponed to the end of the compensation period and therefore entitles you to one additional day of compensation, which in this case leads to an extension of the potential duration of unemployment by two days. It is also for this reason that the reform of unemployment insurance has been carried out. But you are right to refer to employers' accountability for short-term jobs. Like me, you have heard some of your colleagues regret the introduction of a tax on fixed-term contracts or a bonus-malus. But their regret proves that these measures have some effectiveness since they will cause companies to change their behaviour. Thus, the tax on CDDUs is 10 euros per contract, therefore extremely little felt if the contract lasts six months or more, but strongly if it lasts only one hour or one day. And when it is renewed a hundred times, it has no social or economic meaning. But I consider that the CDI cannot be the rule, even if it must remain the point of reference. I recall that 75 per cent of the assets are now in CDI, and our goal is that this proportion remains the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u151	Before giving the floor to Mr Bernalicis, I would like to remind my colleagues and you, Madam Minister, that the maximum speaking time has been set at two minutes by the Conference of Presidents, for questions and answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u152	I'll take that into account, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u153	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u154	The pedagogy being a matter of repetition, I will repeat what the colleagues in my group, the minister, have said. Your government continues to systematically tackle and increase the number of the most vulnerable. In fact, since last September, the reform of unemployment insurance has been applied – past, let us recall, in catimi this summer by decree. Its application will take place in two stages, and will be completed on April 1st... it will unfortunately not be an April fish. But already this reform is, in all respects, a historic attack on unemployment protection, not a generous regime as you claim. The conditions for access to unemployment benefits are significantly reduced, as has been pointed out, since while four more months worked over a period of 28 months allowed for entitlement, six months will have to be worked over a period of 24 months. In addition, you remove the right to reload, so you will have to work again six months to extend your unemployment rights instead of a month before. Economists have alerted the Government that this reform is likely to plunge a little more into precariousness nearly half of the 2.6 million beneficiaries of unemployment insurance. Hence my first question: What do you think is going to be the case and the numbers you have? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] But it is especially on the second part of the unemployment insurance reform, scheduled for April, that I would like to ask you, Madam Minister. I would point out that a recast of the method of calculating the daily reference wage, the basis for the payment of unemployment benefits... and which obviously has very strong links with the reform of pensions, is being prepared. It has been well understood that the aim of the pension reform is to reduce pensions by taking into account all years of activity in the calculation of such pensions, including unemployed years. With regard to the reform of unemployment insurance, what do you think is the objective, if not that of reducing the amounts allocated to the unemployed as well? For from now on, the average income earned on days worked will no longer be taken into account, but the income earned on all 24 months, including periods not worked, which will mathematically draw the average downwards. Can you give me details of the impact of this reform, particularly by age group and by category of employment, according to the figures available to you? And I asked my question in less than two minutes, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u155	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u156	I will answer your main question, the question of "allowable" workers, i.e. employees who alternate short contracts and periods of unemployment. It should be borne in mind that under the current system, in force until 1 April, one in five jobseekers in such a situation received compensation in those first months of unemployment in excess of their average wage. This is not logical and does not encourage a return to work. Of course, the jobseekers concerned should not be accused of acting in accordance with the existing rules, since they do not now have an interest in returning to work while they will earn more for a few months by remaining in the unemployment insurance scheme. This system anomaly, which concerns one in five job seekers, will be corrected on April 1. On the other hand, the right capital does not change: all the unemployment rights will remain acquired and will give rise to longer compensation than in the general case, without however exceeding 100 % of the previously earned wage. This means, in practice, that all jobseekers will have unemployment benefits which cannot be less than 65% or more than 96% of their average monthly net wage. Furthermore, I stress that this reform of unemployment insurance is a triptych: one, the rules of compensation; Two, employers' accountability – bonus-malus, CDDU tax – three, the support of job seekers, which is extremely strengthened – I will probably have the opportunity to come back to it – which will give much more chance to find a job.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u157	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u158	Madam Minister, I would have sincerely wanted to ask you about these issues, namely your policy to combat unemployment. But I had to dig into the subject, unfortunately I did not find any evidence of such a struggle in your policy. I have found the traces of your many efforts to increase the precariousness, including work at work – with the increase in the turnover ceiling of self-employed people – of those intended to reduce the protection of employees by the law that bears your name, as well as a reform of pensions that requires everyone to work longer when there are already not enough jobs for all, but no, definitely no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no According to my two previous colleagues, I would point out that this reform will have had the effect, in one year, of reducing the allowances by more than one million French, and even of abolishing them for all those who have been able to accumulate only four and not six months of activity in two years. I understand that you find that the situation is better for them than elsewhere in Europe, but you obviously want to catch up! I would add that you have removed the possibility of recharging fees while the system had the dual advantage of encouraging a return to employment while being financially beneficial to the beneficiaries. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Not only push the unemployed into even greater precariousness, you also feed the aberrant phantasm according to which if they do not find a job, it is because they do not actively seek enough or not in the right way, in short they do not know how to cross the street quickly enough. However, if I believe your ministry's figures, the Pôle Emploi website offers only 700000 offers, five times less than the number of unemployed – let alone the fact that there may be duplicates and that these offers are rarely CDI or full-time. There is no doubt for me: it is not against unemployment that you are fighting, but against the unemployed, while excelling in the art of manipulating numbers. I would therefore like you to clarify the number of new poor and other precarious people you have planned to create through your reform of unemployment insurance, and therefore the number of fewer unemployed people you intend to announce because you have removed them from employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u159	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u160	Mr President, since you do not find any trace of my employment policy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u161	Fighting unemployment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u162	...I'll help you. For example, 300,000 job seekers who return to work, it seems to me to be significant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u163	And how many radiates?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u164	Also significant is the fact that 900000 jobseekers go to training, knowing that the lack of qualifications is the first indicator of unemployment – the unemployment rate among the persons concerned is 18%. The priority therefore is to enable them to acquire skills and thus a value in the labour market to help them find a job. Never had such an investment been made in this area. In addition, I would like to point out that the obligation to hire 4% of apprentices will allow a large number of young people leaving school without qualifications and without plans to project themselves into a professional future; This is also part of employment policy. Another important trace is the investment of EUR 1 billion in inclusion and integration through the economy so that the most vulnerable also have a chance to gain access to employment, knowing that two thirds of them are back on their way to employment. Therefore, you will allow me to tell you, Mr. Member, that to see, we still have to look.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u165	That's what I just did!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u166	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] One thing shocked me in what you said: I am surprised that France, like the National Rally, denies the reality of the figures of INSEE and ACOSS. This really shockes me a lot and I think it also shockes all the agents in these organizations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u167	You didn't answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u168	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u169	Minister, a few reminders: May 2016, Emmanuel Macron: "You're not gonna scare me with your T-shirt. The best way to afford a suit is to work. » February 2017, Emmanuel Macron: "The mass unemployment in France is because the workers are too protected. » June 2017, Emmanuel Macron: "A train station is a place where we meet people who succeed, and people who are nothing. » October 2017, Christophe Castaner: "Freedom is not to receive unemployment benefits to leave for two years on vacation. » November 2017, Damien Adam, MP The Republic on the move: "When you are an employee and you see some people who go on vacation in the Bahamas with unemployment insurance, it is legitimate to say that this system works on the head. » June 2018, Emmanuel Macron: "We put a crazy money in social minima. » September 2018, Emmanuel Macron: "I cross the street and I find you a job. » June 2019, your magnificent lapsus, Minister: "The reform of unemployment insurance: a reform resolutely oriented towards work, towards employment, against unemployment and for precariousness. » Your real face is that of contempt. The reality is that 14,000 people die each year as a result of long-term unemployment. The reality is that more than one out of every two unemployed people is not compensated and, in addition, your government is excluding hundreds of thousands of people from unemployment insurance and is going to make even more unemployment through its pension reform. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mr. Pierre Dharréville also applauds]] So my question is simple: when are you going to stop stigmatizing the unemployed and unemployed to finally tackle unemployment? Is it their fault that there are only 300,000 job offers not filled when our country has 6 million unemployed people, that 10 billion tax gifts have been offered to the richest, that you have destroyed the labour code by precarising even more and that the CICE is perpetuated, thus giving 20 billion public money a year to the big companies that destroy jobs, like Carrefour and Auchan at present? No, it's yours! So stop this contempt and admit that the lack of jobs in the country is the responsibility of the Government and not of the unemployed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u170	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u171	Madam Member, you mention a lot of small phases, you use a lot of slogans, but I would like to talk about actions and actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u172	We're listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u173	First, you confuse, sorry to tell you, unemployed and job seeker. Pôle emploi is a public employment service open to people seeking employment because they do not have one but also to those who have one and are looking for another – a better, a different or a complementary one. Contrary to what you say, therefore, there are not 6 million unemployed, but according to INSEE statistics, figures recognised by the International Labour Office, 2.8 million unemployed, people available and seeking employment. It is still too much, I agree, but we must also talk about the facts. All the surveys, all the work on the ground – I spent two days a week there, I had to visit more than 130 sites in France for two and a half years – show the same thing. The many data – qualitative or quantitative – available to us suggest that the problem, once in two, comes from competence. I can assure you that the first of the injustices lies in the lack of qualifications: this is what leads to unemployment, to precarious or poorly paid jobs, and to less prospects for the future. The first battle, therefore, is that of competence. I will not go back to the reforms in apprenticeship and vocational training that we have undertaken, nor to the creation of the My Training Account site or the plan for investing in the skills that we have launched. In the other half of the cases, the difficulties are different. Mobility issues are a real challenge. It happens that work is available, but because there is no public transport, it is not possible to get there. I am thinking of a group of women from the northern districts of Marseilles, where I was a few days ago: from this area, to get to the city centre, there are very few transport possibilities and extremely long journey times – you know this problem well. There are therefore subjects of mobility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u174	I can hear what you're talking about here, but where's the answer to the contempt you're showing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u175	Another issue is child care: many women – they are the first to be involved, even if men are also involved – cannot accept a job because first of all, in order to get a place in a nursery, you have to have a CDI. How can they start their professional life?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u176	Please conclude, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u177	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These are all those issues that we – the state, local authorities and economic actors – are attacking and on which we still need to make progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u178	Four questions asked by the La France group: no answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u179	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u180	Minister, with your reform of unemployment insurance, the new rule for calculating benefits will further weaken older jobseekers, as they will be subject to a longer reference period for calculating the daily reference wage. Thus, for jobseekers aged 53 or over, a short period of activity at the beginning of the reference period followed by a long period of inactivity may lead to a further drastic reduction in the daily reference wage. But we know that the ability to find a job at this age is less, and that it is not just a matter of looking – I will come back to that. The pension reform project adds vulnerability to this precariousness: it provides that we work longer, in a system aligned from the bottom, which pushes to work more to only hope to live dignifiedly. In the countries you cite as a model, pensioners living below the poverty line are much more numerous than in our current system. For half of the 60-year-old French, seeing the age at which they will be able to retire does not mean that they will have to stay longer in their post: many will still have to wait for unemployment – with meagre benefits – at the RSA, for sickness or disability, or even for themselves waiting for their pension, while being included in the unemployment halo. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] You were talking just now; But the extent of inequalities in health status and employability across socio-professional categories calls for action beyond the issue of look-ahead, and even beyond that of penitibility. Inequality between a manager and a maintenance agent depends largely on the choice of work organisation by the companies, over which you have the power to act. Will you use that power, and how?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u181	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u182	Madam Member, you are dealing with a number of related issues. First of all with regard to the elderly, I would like to point out that the maximum duration of unemployment compensation is not two years, but three years – and that is a very good thing, which must of course be retained, given the long-term unemployment which concerns people over the age of 60. I would also like to point out that unemployment insurance – in accordance with the decision of the social partners and the State – is the bridge between the period of unemployment benefit and retirement for some older people. We intend to maintain this system, because the opposite option would lead to the poverty of people close to retirement. You rest the question – already raised – of job seekers following short contracts. We agree on one observation: no one chooses to be precarious; precariousness is never a goal, it is suffered. On this point, the question of compensation arises, but also that of accompaniment. We have observed – I have seen it in many Pôle emploi agencies – that these people, who are often close to their telephones waiting for a contract to be offered for the afternoon, the next day or the following week, benefit relatively little from Pôle emploi services, because they are not accessible, or because they are obliged to cancel. We have therefore, as part of the reform of unemployment insurance, asked Pôle Emploi to launch a call for tenders – it is currently under way – in order to offer services adapted to the permitted persons, who provide short contracts. As of April 1st, the latter will be able to benefit from an additional offer in the evening and on the weekend. This is important to me: these people must be accompanied in order to find a more sustainable job and therefore have better prospects.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u183	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u184	Madam Minister, unemployment in France has reached a high level – and, in some territories, very high, as our colleague Jean-Philippe Nilor mentioned a few moments ago – and the precarious situation is galloping. In the face of this, work develops without status, without labour law, and uberized. This model is not sustainable. What do you intend to do not to see it develop? It is, in any case, because of this precarious situation that there is also a rise in the number of lost routes, which strike retirement pensions. Women and men, young people, the least young, are experiencing the suffering of not finding a job, which is compounded by destructive guilt. The reform of the unemployment insurance that you have imposed and which degrades the rights does not help. You said we were implementing a generous compensation system. I believe that this system was primarily aimed at ensuring justice: no question of generosity here, I do not share your view. In passing, I would point out that jobless organisations are always asking for recognition, because they have things to say about policies to combat unemployment. Among the unemployed, nearly a million people have been looking for work for at least a year. This phenomenon affects 40% of the unemployed in metropolitan France, i.e. 3.4% of the working population. What tools, what new ways can you propose to respond to them? Faced with this, the territorial experiment against long-term unemployment – which has already been discussed – was launched in January 2017 in ten territories between 5000 and 10,000 inhabitants. It demonstrated that no one is unemployable and that unemployment is not a choice of convenience for workers. According to the Observatoire des Inequalités, it is the long-term joblessness that poses the most problem: the consequences are far more serious on the level of compensation, the social relations and the psychological state of the persons concerned, which are thus far removed from their professional world. You have received three interim analysis reports. The first conclusions point to a significant improvement in the professional and personal situation of the beneficiaries of the scheme. If adjustments appear necessary, a second experimental phase is recommended. Do you intend to prolong this experiment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u185	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u186	Mr President, you are dealing with a number of issues, all related to the fight against unemployment. We will have the opportunity, I believe, to talk again about the uberisation of the economy, in response to which we obviously need to find ways of social regulation. Every age sees the emergence of new forms of employment, and public authorities – in this case, both the Government and Parliament – must intervene on this subject. You then talk about the provision of services and how we can better help the long-term unemployed – because unemployment is difficult, but long-term unemployment is a real pain, with the elements of health and desocialisation that it can bring: it is, more than just a loss of employment and income, a loss of social link, and it often has a rather destructive effect. First of all, as I mentioned earlier, we are making a more massive effort than in the past as part of the competence investment plan. We must not believe, in fact, that one only forms when one is young: one can evolve his whole life – this is the fruit of a change in society. It is interesting to note that, in the application My training account, many people are asking for retraining, either because they anticipate difficulties in their employment or because they want to learn a profession they have never worked: this can be true at any age. As for the experiment of the territories zero long-term unemployed, on which you ask me more precisely, my history and my experience encourage me to believe in the virtues of territorial mobilization. I believe, more broadly, in mobilisation: when actors of good will commit themselves, they find solutions on the ground that did not exist in the texts alone. They must help their action – they must not prevent it – but, in reality, it is mobilization that counts. As I indicated earlier, in a few weeks we will have drawn up, with the association TZCLD, which conducts the experiment, a fully shared diagnosis concerning these territories. We are ready to go further in the experiment, based on the teachings of the first phase. We have a decline of two years. This remains short for a relatively innovative approach, but we can already learn from it first.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u187	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u188	Madam Minister, as a member of the Committee on Finance and Special Rapporteur on Labour, Employment, Vocational Training and Apprenticeship, I am particularly aware of the success of our joint project: reducing unemployment and returning to full employment. Whatever the oppositions say, the results are already there, and they see each other. At the same time, we must continue our efforts. The reform of apprenticeship and vocational training has been an essential response to a French paradox: the persistence of mass unemployment while many companies are struggling to recruit because they do not find the skills they need. As you know, the 2019 employment ceiling for France Skills has been set in the 2019 Finance Act at 70 ETPT – full-time equivalents worked. This ceiling is the result of an estimate made with regard to the legal tasks of an establishment which did not yet exist: it seems obvious that the State did not have the necessary elements for a proper estimate of the workload corresponding to their exercise. However, France's missions are not exactly the same as those of the three structures which this institution is to replace. While the main less important task concerns calls for projects from the Joint Fund for the Safeguarding of Professional Pathways, there are also new regulatory tasks – outside the registration of certifications – as well as other burdens such as the award and management of the professionally evolving consultancy market. At the same time, an increase in the scope of existing missions, such as the processing of registration files in the specific directory, is noteworthy. With the hindsight that we have today, is it possible to adjust France's employment ceiling to allow for a better match between the staff of this institution and the tasks it carries out, and which are essential to achieve our objectives?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u189	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u190	Thank you, Madam Member, for your strong support for the reforms we have undertaken and for the creation of France's skills. This institution is indeed a pillar of the new system of vocational training and apprenticeship: it is a sort of regulatory authority, led by the State, the regions and the social partners, i.e. by all the actors involved in this regulation. I believe that its creation has been a great step forward. On this occasion, I would like to acknowledge the tremendous work that France's teams and board of directors have done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u191	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u192	This organization, created in February 2019, was immediately operational, and particularly fast in carrying out its new missions. For example, it has enabled the implementation of apprenticeship contracts and new certification. [[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] Its tasks correspond well to the combined tasks of the four bodies that have been merged. The grouping under one direction of these organizations, between which many interactions were previously necessary, saves time. That is why we estimated that the 70 FTEs in the 2019 Finance Act, which correspond exactly to the sum of the four existing jurisdictions, were sufficient at this stage. We will obviously have to be vigilant in the future: if the missions increase, they will have to be taken into account. At the moment, however, it seems to me good to consider that the synergies created by the merger of the four bodies allow them to function properly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u193	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u194	Madam Minister, in France, thanks to government policies that have been in place for two years, and which are bearing fruit, unemployment has reached its lowest level in ten years, reaching 8.5% of the working population at the end of 2019. In my Jura department, we are pleased that the unemployment rate has fallen to 6.1% – a historic performance. However, the age group 55 and over is still too affected by unemployment: 27% of jobseekers in categories A, B and C are seniors. The increase is 0.5% year-on-year. These persons receive unemployment benefits, end-of-law benefits, or social minima. But this part of the population, which is permanently excluded from the professional world, is inactive. Seniors looking for jobs face the reluctance of companies to recruit older employees because of age-related stereotypes, lack of confidence in health status, resistance and adaptability, or fear of having to pay higher wages. The precariousness of older people excluded from the labour market represents an increasing cost to the community, which is a cause for concern if we take into account the sharp decline in the prospects for returning to employment after 52 years. On the eve of the review of pension reform, I would like to know, Madam Minister, what active policies and specific arrangements for the employment of older people are you planning to pursue or implement. Finally, job-retirement cumulation is increasingly necessary to improve an insufficient pension. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Do you not consider, Madam Minister, that pension reform cannot take place without a thorough reflection on the employment of older people?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u195	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u196	Madam Member, like you, I welcome the very good results of the Jura. More and more departments, like yours, are approaching the 6% figure and this is an encouraging sign that there is no fatality. I am sure that the inhabitants of the Jura are aware of this, even if, on some benches, some here deny the reality. The employment of older people is, as you rightly recall, an essential element of employment policy and must also be taken into account in pension reform. That is why yesterday the Prime Minister and I initiated this consultation with the social partners. In particular, the question of how to value the experience of older, more experienced people was raised on this occasion. Many speakers referred to tutoring, which is still poorly recognized in France when we will have a huge need for skills transfer, making it an opportunity. SMEs, which are sorely lacking in skills, are sometimes less affected by the stereotypes surrounding the hiring of seniors, but they find it difficult to access highly qualified skills and we need to see how to help them. The same applies to the voluntary sector. We also want to work with the social partners to improve gradual retirement and cumulative employment-retirement. There are many who aspire, not to a binary opposition between work and retirement, but to a more progressive system, which is humanly more balanced and more interesting, because it allows the people concerned to have a social benefit and an impact on economic life, in parallel with a gradual evolution in their quantity of work. This seems to me to correspond to a very strong aspiration of our citizens and to have an economic sense if we find the right outline for this scheme, which we therefore want to encourage in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u197	Mrs. Sophie Panonacle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u198	Minister, to think of the fight against unemployment is also to think of strengthening the attractiveness of the sectors of the future. On the occasion of the Assises de l'économie de la mer last December, the President of the Republic affirmed that the 21st century would be maritime. The maritime sector employs 400,000 people in hundreds of different trades and weighs around 70 billion euros in annual production value. These figures could reach 1 million jobs and 150 billion euros by 2030. The growth of the blue economy's activity will necessarily be accompanied by a transformation of the various sectors to a sustainable model. Renewable marine energy, decarbonized marine transport and the boat of the future are promising. Sectors as diverse as connected ports, blue biotechnology or coastal ecological engineering will create new jobs. Hundreds of thousands of new recruits are expected in these expanding sectors. They will, of course, be in addition to the many jobs that are currently essential to the operation of the main sectors, in particular shipyards, which concentrate a wide variety of trades. However, this sector suffers from a real problem of attractiveness, recruitment and training. Lack of knowledge of the sea trades and the difficult conditions of certain trades are the cause of this lack of attractiveness. Professional immersions in marine companies or pre-recruitment training actions have already been suggested by Pôle Emploi in order to maximize the hiring of the relevant profiles. The maritime sectors undoubtedly have an important role to play in the fight against unemployment. Minister, what measures are you considering to "maritalize" the skills of job seekers and thus serve the dual objective of combating unemployment and accompanying the blue economy in sustainable growth?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u199	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u200	[[Smile]] Thank you, Member, for your question. The 15th Assises de l'économie de la mer, last December, allowed us to share these ambitious objectives, all the more so since it is not only the development of the blue economy, but also, as you pointed out, a great transformation, with the development of renewable energies and the "greening" of maritime transport – which, if I dare say, comes back to greening the blue. In this sector, very strong recruitment needs are to be expected by 2025, but, as you have pointed out, marine professionals are still facing a large labour shortage. This is one of the opportunities I mentioned earlier when I said that we were underfoot. Indeed, many sectors are seeking and struggling to recruit. The maritime sector is experiencing specific problems, with levels of initial technical training that need to be advanced. It is unreadable and fragmented, with a lack of attractiveness, and potential candidates ignore the level and interest of these sea trades. In fact, the proportion of young graduates hired is decreasing, while needs are increasing. Faced with this situation, marine professionals are mobilizing and, in October 2018, under the auspices of the National Council of Industry, the marine industry sector has developed and signed an ambitious action plan. The Ministry of Labour supports this approach and, in 2019, the Ministry of Labour, the UIMM – the Union of Metallurgy Industries and Trades – and the Naval Industries Campus, as well as the trade unions in the metallurgy sector, have signed a commitment to the forward management of employment and skills, or GPEC, in the industry of the sea, which is part of the question. We work on several axes: training engineering by skill blocks, improvement of the attractiveness of the sector and consolidation of the GPEC sector. What is true of the marine industry is also true of other sectors, such as the processing of food or cosmetics linked to the blue economy, or of new tourism elements. There is a general need to develop this forward-looking approach to managing jobs and skills. That is what we are going to do in the context of the productive pact. We have opportunities to do so, but we must seize them, and seize them together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u201	Mr Nicolas Demoulin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u202	Minister, the level of unemployment in France has never been so low in ten years. We need to step up our efforts, but we can agree that the measures put in place since the beginning of the quinquennium have been effective. The reduction in labour costs alone is not sufficient. Indeed, for having lived it personally, I know that an optimistic entrepreneur is an entrepreneur who hires. With modest economic growth, optimism is the key to fighting unemployment effectively. This is even more true for SMEs, which are responsible for the majority of job creation in France. This return to trust is there, and we must rejoice, but there are still obstacles to hiring, often linked to the age of the candidate: seniors are too experienced, and young people are not enough. This is a very French paradox, against which we must fight by changing attitudes. This fight has been fought for two and a half years and is beginning to bear fruit. Indeed, the fall in youth unemployment has begun: in 2019, it is more than 2.3 points. This is an encouraging figure for young French and French people, which is due to measures taken by the majority in favour of apprenticeship and alternation with the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. It seems to me that it is possible to increase the ambitions for vocational training for young people, for example by promoting the structuring of professional markets, with mobility centred around companies in the same sector, giving an important place to learning. Minister, can you give us more details on the Government's road map to combat youth unemployment, especially those furthest from employment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u203	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u204	Mr President, thank you for this question. Indeed, unemployment among young people is, from every blind angle of the labour market, the one that concerns me the most. It is not acceptable that more than one million young people in our country will not project themselves in the future. This is aberrant from the social, economic or citizen point of view. It is not possible for young people to feel that they do not need it – that's not true, but that's what some people perceive. We are progressing, indeed. The unemployment rate, which was 21.7% when we arrived, is now 19.1%, but there is still so much work to be done in this area! The first thing to do is to go to the young people who escape the radars. Several hundred thousand so-called "NEET" young people, i.e. neither in employment nor in training nor in education, do not even go to a local mission or employment centre, nor to any integration structure, and already consider that they are not offered a place in the labour market. We have to go to them and find them where they are. That is why, within the framework of the ICP, we have launched a call for tenders for the mobilization of these so-called "invisible" young people. Three projects have been selected in your Hérault department, out of 210 that have been selected at national level, for an amount of more than 60 million euros. These young dropouts need to be hung up by giving them the real hope of finding a solution. Learning, in which we invest heavily, is obviously a particularly effective solution, but we must also mention the well-functioning skills investment programme and the young guarantee. We have also increased by 17%, bringing the total to 330,000 young people, the number of contractualised entry routes to employment and autonomy – CAPEA – with the help of local missions, which receive additional resources in this area. Finally, there is the offer of services from EPIDE's second chance schools. All these structures must be mobilized even more. We have made this possible in the 2020 budget, so that hundreds of thousands more young people can have access to employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u205	Mr Gaël Le Bohec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u206	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Government for its action, which has given employment a real and unprecedented dynamic in our country: several hundred thousand jobs were created at the beginning of the quinquennium. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the officials who are building these figures and working with a great professional conscience, but who have unfortunately been questioned earlier by some and some of those who have spoken before me, which is very unfortunate. Unemployment has indeed evolved in a positive direction. However, some areas of shadow remain, and unemployment remains too high, particularly among women, the elderly and the long-term unemployed. In this regard, the electoral district of which I am elected has a long-term zero-unemployed territory: that of Pipriac and Saint-Ganton, which you came to visit on October 4, 2018. This experiment closer to the territories has proved its worth and demonstrates this fundamental truth that no one is unemployable. I insist on the words "closest to the territories" for two reasons. First of all, the territory I have just mentioned lies in the heart of the Loire-Bretagne intermetropolitan alliance, represented here by the constituencies of Paul Molac and Yves Daniel, and in the gold triangle Nantes-Rennes-Vannes. This metropolitan area carries – and as far as Angers itself – many projects. The territorial approach has undeniable advantages for jobseekers as well as for all local populations. The scheme favours the creation of new services, such as the resumption of local businesses. It has created a dynamic between all local actors, elected representatives from all sides, associations, companies and institutions. Finally, the ecological benefit is also important, with the creation of recycling and sorting services that would not be economically profitable in conventional models. The system needs several improvements. In particular, adequate own funds should be provided and its organisation strengthened, for example for better management. [[Paul Molac applauds]] Madam Minister, can you please give us the timetable and outline of the mechanism provided for in the new legislation that is being announced? Let me stress the timetable, on which you have already answered a great deal. On this point, I would like to receive specific information from you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u207	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u208	Mr President, we have already had the opportunity to raise this point earlier, and I believe we have the same conviction: when elected representatives mobilize and find new solutions with local actors, it is good that national public arrangements support these steps to make them possible on a large scale. That is the spirit of my support for this experiment. I will make two remarks. First of all, with the initiators of this approach and the bodies of expertise, which have carried out audits, we are in the process of identifying the brakes and levers, the necessary improvements and the essential aspects – such as, of course, the role of elected officials in governance. All this will be refined in the coming weeks. The law of 2016 which inaugurated this experiment set it a five-year horizon, so that the next law on this subject should, in principle, take place in 2021. However, the law provided for only ten experiments: in order to multiply them, a new legislative vehicle is needed, but it is not necessarily necessary to wait for 2021 for this. Similarly, we do not necessarily need an ad hoc law: the desired mechanism, whose content remains to be defined, can borrow another legislative vehicle – I will propose one or two in the course of this year. We will therefore be quite pragmatic in this area, the important thing being to agree on what needs to be corrected and improved to allow the amplification of the experiment. I would also like, through you, to appeal to the elected representatives: we must not oppose the arrangements. We need everyone and we have the means, in terms of integration through the economy, to create construction sites and integration enterprises, in particular, as you said, with resourcing or recycling facilities, or with suitable companies. If the elected representatives ask, we will.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u209	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u210	I would like to ask you four questions about measures to be explored in the fight against unemployment. The first concerns territorial employment initiatives, which are already widely mentioned on these banks. I know what your position is about employment houses, something that has sometimes led to exceptional results. In some sectors, in some economic sectors, it may be appropriate to bring together public and private representatives and researchers around the table, and this can even produce very good results. I know you don't share that view. Would you, however, be prepared to allow, on a case-by-case basis, depending on the potential of each of the territories, the use of such a mechanism, in a new version, in order to promote employment in those territories? My second question concerns integration through economic activity – IAE. I am convinced that we can go further in this area. Do you consider that vocational training should now be integrated into the structures of integration through economic activity – SIAE – as long as their pattern is similar to alternation, with measures on the ground and training? To date, some of the brakes have prevented EAIS from including vocational training structures. I'd like to hear your opinion. And, as far as EAIS is concerned, do you think that it is possible to be more restrictive with regard to public orders and insertion clauses, in order to mobilise certain public prescribers and to give employment to men and women? My third question concerns associative employment, a subject which I have already mentioned to you. I believe that jobs can be created in associations, especially for first jobs. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] My last question is about self-employed people. Of course, the mobility guidance law – LOM – offers clarification and promotes, through the adoption of a charter, the use of self-employment. I am convinced that this is a way of giving work to men and women, but it seems to me that there is a cultural blockage on this issue. What do you think?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u211	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u212	You've been able to ask all these questions in two minutes, and I'll try to meet the challenge. As far as employment houses are concerned, the approach has evolved. Today, they stand for election as a result of a fairly large number of invitations to tender and call for proposals from the department, such as job management, which can be local. We are rather in a logic of projects because, as you said, the name covers, from one site to another, very different situations. The idea is therefore, rather than adopting a national policy on this subject, to ensure that employment centres are able to benefit from funding under the common law arrangements, which include many calls for projects. They also benefit from funding from the European Social Fund. On the subject of the IAE, a question arises. We all agree that the winning triptych when looking for work is to be placed in a real job situation, to obtain training and to benefit from social support. The second part of the triptych is often the one lacking in the IAE sector. Does the sector, therefore, have an interest in partnering with training professionals, or should it itself also become a training organisation? It is not at a time when I allow everyone to be on the initiative in terms of learning that I will prevent the same from happening in terms of training. It is up to the sector to structure itself on this issue. With regard to the insertion clauses, I agree with you that we can go much further. As part of the Olympic Games, we have planned, together with the Organizing Committee and its President Tony Estanguet, that 10% of the hours worked will be hours of insertion. This requires appropriate arrangements. That's why the clubs "France, a chance. Companies are committed! ", which I mentioned earlier, will be involved in this project. Adapted integration enterprises need to be able to invest. Beyond the Olympics, I believe that this is a way forward for public and private order. One way of engaging companies may be to reserve part of their subcontracting work for integration. Associative employment, which you quote in your third question, is dynamic. Finally, with regard to self-employment, the adoption of the Charter is a step forward. Work on platforms can be a first chance for employment, but we need to go further in social regulation and increase opportunities for these people to be promoted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u213	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u214	In the face of the current situation, and in particular the construction of tomorrow's pension system, which we are going to discuss in the Chamber, I would like to reaffirm that the mother of the battles remains, as you know, the fight against mass unemployment and for employment for all. How can you imagine your retirement when you're unemployed? What good is it to hope for a system of decent pensions if we are not able to get out of mass unemployment? Your government has become embittered in the labour market over the past few months, building on the overall figures. But, as you know, the devil hides in detail. If I were to mention only one, I would sum it up in one figure: 18%. This is the unemployment rate among people with disabilities, and it has not changed for ten years. You have announced some measures, for example the grooming of certain devices in the law for the freedom to choose his professional future, which comes into force this month. However, far from sufficient, they will not significantly reduce unemployment among persons with disabilities. Among these, the first victims are women, whose unemployment rate is 50% – an increase of three points in one year – and seniors, for whom the rate is 44%, or those with a low level of qualification, the rate being 37%. No real specific measures have been taken for these audiences. Supported contracts are declining, hiring growth is three times lower, the average number of days unemployed for persons with disabilities is 824. The obligation to employ disabled workers is an advance of the law of 2005 adopted under the chairmanship of Jacques Chirac. It is now necessary to go further to really include these people in the world of work: to multiply experiments, such as the territories zero long-term unemployed, and the accompanying solutions, to facilitate access to information so that everyone knows from which agency – Pôle Emploi, Cap Emploi – start the right steps. Today, this research is similar to a second journey of the combatant for those people who already have to lead one, that of their lives. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I ask you two specific questions, minister. Are you ready to take prompt steps to promote the employability of women, seniors and low-skilled persons with disabilities? Can we introduce simplification in the support of these people in search of employment, including the accompanying window?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u215	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u216	We start from the same point: in France, we are not good at the employment of people with disabilities. Thirty-two years after the adoption of the law obliging businesses to employ at least 6 per cent of persons with disabilities, the rate is only 3.5 per cent in the private sector and is no longer increasing significantly. That is why, together with Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, we have worked extensively on this issue within the framework of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. We have had a long consultation with the social partners and the bodies concerned, which has already enabled us to take five measures. The first is the reform of the OETH, in order to encourage companies to hire rather than pay a contribution to get out of their obligations. The second is the obligation for any CFA to have a reference apprenticeship to discuss the issue with the family, young people and businesses. Today, only 1% of young apprentices are disabled, while they should be 6% or 7%, as is the case with their share of the population. Moreover, it is well known that the persons concerned often cumulate the prejudice caused by stereotypes caused by their disability with a lower than average level of qualification. The third is the launch of the Skills Investment Plan, of which 8.4% of beneficiaries are disabled – but more needs to be done. The fourth is the increase in supply in adapted enterprises. In our fiscal trajectory, we provide the means to increase from 40,000 places to 80000 places, as part of the inclusive Tour de France that we organise with the Union nationale des entreprises adaptés, the UNAPEI and APF France handicap. The last is the rapprochement between Pôle Emploi and Cap Emploi, which now work closely together, thus avoiding the journey of the combatant you mentioned. Our goal is to make them live together in the same premises so that every person can access the entire offer. For her part, Sophie Cluzel is working on a rapprochement of the Houses of the inhabitants and of Pôle emploi. The idea is for everyone to put themselves at the service of the people concerned to facilitate their journey. There is still work to be done. It is the quality of enforcement that will make the difference, but we have given ourselves the legislative and financial means to make progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u217	Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u218	At the end of 2019, France had 3.3 million unemployed. While we should welcome the fact that almost 200000 category A unemployed have returned to work, we note that the number of jobseekers aged 50 and over has increased since May 2017 and stagnates among women in categories A, B and C. Let us also remember that the French unemployment rate remains still above the average for both the euro area and the European Union as a whole. French growth in 2019 could have given hope for a change, but it must be noted that the current social climate does not augur well for an improvement in 2020. However, according to your ministry, in the third quarter of 2019, more than 185,000 jobs were still vacant in France, due to lack of candidates – for reasons of lack of qualifications, sometimes distance, or perhaps remuneration, but also because the relationship to work has changed and many are satisfied with intermittent or temporary work. Professional zapping exists, as you may have seen and as the representatives of Pôle emploi in the regions point out. This problem, which is difficult to solve, deserves to be stopped: attention must be paid to the persistence of an increasing mismatch between labour supply and demand. I want to point out that 60% of companies with more than 10 employees have recently expressed difficulties in recruiting. The unfilled employment rate continues to rise to a record level of 1.4 per cent. In the context of unemployment, which remains high in our country, it is essential to conduct employment policies that bring the expectations of companies closer to the profile of candidates for recruitment. However, this is the time you are choosing, Madam Minister, to further reduce the resources of Pôle emploi, which is one of the missions – a decrease of 136 million euros in 2020, I would remind you. Let me be astonished at this somewhat erratic management and ask you whether the strategy pursued to bring the qualifications and needs of companies closer together is not a missed opportunity, especially for the regions, which are historical players in this field, to which you have taken out of power during the discussion on the labour law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u219	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u220	First of all, Mrs Kuster, I would like to correct a number, because I am an obsessed with the indisputable figures. We have increased from 2.8 million to 2.5 million unemployed available to work in 2017. These figures do not come out of my hat: I always refer to the same barometer, published quarterly and these are the INSEE figures, recognized by the International Labour Office. All figures are questionable, but the same reference must always be used to compare what is comparable. As far as the subjects you are referring to are concerned, you are right, the causes are multiple. I agree with you: it is certain that at least one in two companies is experiencing difficulties in finding the skills they are looking for, which is a huge proportion. If we succeed in reducing it, it is actually a chance, but if we fail to do so it will be a serious problem, because it is a social and economic issue at the same time. The reasons for these difficulties are known, and I believe in an employment policy that uses all the levers. The first, which I have already mentioned, is competence. There is a very large gap between the skills requested and those available. The Investment Plan for Skills and Learning Measures is there to address this. On the other hand, some occupations are not attractive enough or sometimes, simply, not well known enough. The case of Boilermakers is famous: tens of thousands of jobs are to be filled, it is a well paid job, the conditions of exercise have improved and it is very rewarding to work on the wings of an Airbus, nevertheless the trade remains little known. But sometimes too, some branches have to think about improvements in working conditions, wages or the share of precarious jobs. If they offer only precarious jobs and never a prospect of sustainable employment, they are not attractive! We must therefore work on all these issues. I can also mention the question of mobility, transport, which you have mentioned, and which requires an increasingly close partnership between the employment centre and the local and regional authorities responsible for this. The same applies to the issue of childcare, which, as we have seen, gives rise to measures within the framework of local employment initiatives. As far as the regions are concerned, I object to your comments: within the framework of the ICP, we are transferring EUR 6 billion to the regions to help them strengthen themselves. This broad partnership is going very well in most of the 16 regions that have established it. On this subject, the regions are active and we are helping them to be even more active. Finally, with regard to learning, the results speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u221	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u222	Minister, when I was a business manager, I tended to say that the numbers are more telling than the fine ones. As far as the fight against unemployment is concerned, it must be noted objectively that you yourself, the policies you have infused and therefore the country are now achieving fcurrently positive results. Above all, we are all aware that, behind these figures, there are men and women who are rebuilding life projects and regaining momentum and hope: that is what motivates us to continue the process. However, as the situation improves, we must choose between a policy of continuity or an approach of experimentation and rupture, at least in certain areas. Decentralisation of employment policies to the regions is one of the possible breaks. Indeed, two major assets play a role in favour of the regional actor. On the one hand, there is his knowledge of the economic fabric because of his proximity – since the regions have economic competence, they have created strong links with the companies. On the other hand, the regions have the capacity to spread and test the innovations that you have effectively mentioned on the ground. Experiments in my constituency are a good example. I am thinking about youth unemployment at Café contact emploi, an associative initiative that has been deployed and is now working on integration. I am also thinking of the experience of sponsoring thirty young people from hard-to-unemployed neighbourhoods by business executives. In view of the positive results, the region proposed to increase their number by ten by working with the employment house through a call for "100% inclusion" state projects. [[Ms. Justine Benin and Ms. Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applaud]] Is the State ready to consider a real experiment in decentralisation of employment actors, including employment, to the regions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u223	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u224	In my youth, I was a territorial administrator. So I know a little about local authorities: I have been working with them for decades, including from the inside. By definition, decentralization allows differentiation, but as far as employment is concerned, it is difficult to answer your question with a yes or no. So I will stick to a "yes but". Experience has shown that the training of jobseekers is very uneven in the regions. Some of them are doing a great job, but I have already mentioned the case of the Regional Council of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, which has abolished 65% of the training for jobseekers, including all low-skilled training, because it is not its role to make solidarity and help the most vulnerable. While most regions have abolished training for the reintegration of prisoners, or training to combat illiteracy, it is up to the State to ensure that the most vulnerable are taken into account throughout the country. Some regions are playing their part, as I said, but, because not all of them are, today we cannot delegate to them the entire competence of employment. I also note that, for these same reasons, this is not the case in any other European country, including in very federal countries such as Germany. Nevertheless, we are ready to go further with the regions. At the Congress of the Regions of France, the Prime Minister proposed an experiment on a regional governance body of Pôle Emploi. We have also demonstrated our goodwill, through the additional €6 billion provided by the Skills Investment Plan – the "100% inclusion" you mentioned – and our employment action. The experiment, which will start in a few voluntary regions in 2020, will see the establishment of a new governance body, chaired by the Regional Council, with an operational role concerning the main objectives of the Employment Centre in the field of vocational training, experiments, in particular for the paths of jobseekers and their training, or the coordination of the supervision of training bodies. This experiment will allow us to see how it is possible to work with the regions that wish to do so and who are committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u225	Mrs Justine Benin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u226	In 2018, the number of job creations increased by 2.4% in Guadeloupe, making it the third most job-creating territory in France. However, much remains to be done to meet the challenge of employment in the overseas regions, particularly in Guadeloupe, where the unemployment rate still stands at 23%. More than a year ago, we voted on the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, which established France competences, a public institution responsible for regulating, financing and organising vocational training and apprenticeship throughout the national territory. Knowing that the overseas territories have very specific characteristics and characteristics, linked to the insularity, remoteness and narrowness of the markets, I would like to hear from you, Madam Minister, about the opportunity to create French branches of competence in each ocean basin, and especially in the Caribbean-Guyane. This would address a need for proximity and the need for professionalisation of on-the-spot training bodies. This evolution is now indispensable because of the ageing of our population, in Guadeloupe and Martinique, ageing due to the exodus of our youth, going to work in the hexagon or abroad because of the lack of professional proposals on the spot. What can we do to create jobs so that our young people can flourish professionally in all the territories of Guadeloupe, Martinique, La Réunion or Guyana? In addition, Madam Minister, I was with you in March 2019 in Cachan, in Val-de-Marne, to launch the free jobs scheme in the overseas departments. This innovative and incentive approach allows companies that recruit young job seekers living in priority areas to benefit from recruitment premiums, amounting to EUR 5000 for three years for an indefinite contract and EUR 2500 for two years for a fixed-term contract. What's your first assessment? Above all, how can we simplify access to this system so that it can fully benefit associations?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u227	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u228	We share the same convictions, Mrs. Benin. We discussed this during my visit to Guadeloupe, but also during all our debates on the order to adapt to the overseas law for the freedom to choose his professional future. I would also like to point out that this work has been done by Members of Parliament and senators from all political groups, which I would like to welcome. Like you, I welcome the employment dynamics that Guadeloupe is experiencing today. I also share your feeling that the local unemployment rate is still very high and that, as a result, as far as employment is concerned, there is a need to strengthen the attractiveness of the territory for young people. That is why we are ready to experiment with innovative forms of learning, types of Erasmus Caribbean. It is necessary to move forward in this area because the eyes cannot be turned to the metropolis alone: they must also focus on the natural economic basin of the Caribbean. France has no direct role with operators: its task of financial and administrative regulation is of a general nature. As a result, it does not have a regional antenna anywhere. On the other hand, we could look together at how CREFOP – the Regional Committee on Employment, Training and Career Guidance – and CARIF – the centre for animation and information resources on training – could grow in power, perhaps playing specific and reinforced roles for overseas. As you have pointed out, there is, overseas, an issue of increasing professionalisation which concerns in particular the supply of training and perhaps also the offer of support for integration. On these issues, there is a need for engineering and perhaps we could strengthen the engineering capabilities of CREFOP and CARIF. As far as free jobs are concerned, we were together last year, when the extension of the scheme was launched, as you pointed out. As of April 1st, all priority areas of the city can benefit from it. There are now 18,000 free jobs. We will continue and I agree, of course, that the experiment is working well, but for the time being, things seem to be going well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u229	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u230	Minister, I want to ask you about senior unemployment. The situation in this area is worrying, as has already been pointed out on several occasions by the Court of Auditors. I am thinking in particular of a reference dated 23 July 2019, made public on 10 October 2019. This document is a staggering observation. The employment rate for employees aged 55-64 is 52% in the first quarter of 2019, seven points below the European average. The periods of unemployment of this population are also much longer than those of all jobseekers, and their level of qualification is lower. Above all, the situation is even more alarming for the unemployed aged 60-64, whose employment rate is only 32%. The periods of unemployment, which are harmful to all, are particularly difficult for older people, who find themselves in a kind of transitional period which is quite difficult to live between employment and retirement, with disastrous consequences. I was particularly shocked by the increase in the amounts paid to the unemployed aged 60 to 64 under the RSA-socle – this is the last of the protections – an increase of 157 % over the last 10 years. These few figures have brought me deeply to my attention. They seem to me to call, Madam Minister, some insight into the ongoing action in this area. These periods of unemployment can be true traps to poverty for some. What about the establishment of the personal training account? In my view, this is a real opportunity to accompany accelerated transitions from the age of 55. What actions could Pôle Emploi take to improve access to training for our seniors? In response to the Court of Auditors' referral, the Prime Minister referred to the creation of a mission to draw up proposals. Can we say more today? You yourself, the minister, have mentioned last year, by answering a written question, the deployment of computer tools for raising awareness and informing seniors and businesses. What information can you give us about this?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u231	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u232	Madam Member, we have read the same document from the Court of Auditors, and all the analyses available on the subject converge. As you said, the situation is worrying. On the one hand, the participation rate of older people is lower than the European average, especially that of 60-64 year olds – there is a real subject here. On the other hand, the long-term unemployment rate is very high. While the overall unemployment rate among older people is lower than the national rate, it is extremely difficult for those affected to return to employment. Unemployment is less frequent, but its effects are more serious. Moreover, in this intermediate position between employment and retirement, if two thirds of the persons concerned derive their income from unemployment insurance, another third lives thanks to the social minima, in situations of precariousness that are imagined. It is a human waste and an economic loss for the nation, because the people in question are often experienced and have things to bring. It was in this context that we entrusted three people, including Sophie Bellon, Chair of the Board of Directors of SODEXO, with a mission on the employment of seniors. Next Tuesday, they will submit their report to the Government and the social partners, which will feed into the work begun yesterday with the Prime Minister and the social partners on the one hand on the employment of older people and on the other on penitibility, subjects which are obviously intrigued. The personal training account is indeed an opportunity. Today, in companies, we do not train seniors: we simply find that their knowledge is no longer up-to-date. But we can train at 50, 55 or 60! It is too early to say this, but I think that the application My training account will also reopen the right to training for seniors. On the part of Pôle Emploi, for a long period of time, seniors were somewhat forgotten: very few job offers were intended for them. Today, while one in two companies is looking for skills, we need to remobilize the employment offices on this subject. Other avenues will be the subject of ongoing consultation with the social partners – we will be able to discuss them together very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u233	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u234	While unemployment is a scourge for our country and especially for the French who suffer it, it has been one of the major challenges facing every government for several decades. Today there is a bold project, which bears fruit on the front line of the fight against unemployment: the initiative "territories zero long-term unemployed", born from a bill tabled by our former colleague Laurent Grandguillaume, adopted unanimously in this Chamber and in the Senate in 2016. On the basis of the observation that no one is unemployable, this initiative aims to make effective a "right to employment" by leaving people from a situation of deprivation of employment and preparing them for reintegration into the world of work. We can now consider this to be a success. Several interim reports have been published: three years after the start of the experiment in ten territories, 900 people in long-term unemployment were hired in CDI. It is clear that this initiative restores confidence, that it restores the link between individuals and between the individual and society. It succeeds because, unlike conventional policies to combat unemployment, it leaves the territories, it adheres to their needs by deploying itself only for useful and unsatisfied needs. Madam Minister, you have indicated that the Government will communicate the follow-up it wishes to give to the project in January. So the time has come. The reports of IGAS, IGF and the Scientific Evaluation Board set out the positive elements I have just mentioned, but they are critical of the mechanism's zero impact on public finances. These reports are part of a management vision, which I regret, and focus more on the savings achieved than on the benefits to the territories and the human benefit, yet at the centre of the project. This mechanism deserves to be pursued, encouraged and deployed. Are we planning to extend it by means of a new law? You have partly answered this question: it seems that the Government does not wish to generalize the experience. Can you confirm this direction and specify the criteria that will allow new territories to benefit from the scheme? I am thinking in particular of the Trièves, in my constituency, which has done a lot of work in this direction for several years and is very voluntary. Finally, how can we respond to the need for training in the context of ongoing experiments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u236	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u237	Mrs Battistel, as I have already had the opportunity to say several times, I find this experiment interesting. Under the 2016 law, the experiment was to last five years and cover ten sites; It has been carried out in the territories concerned, benefiting 900 people, 750 of whom are currently employed. As part of the Finance Act for 2020, I have planned, without changing the law or the number of sites, to double the effort to increase it to an additional 1000 full-time equivalents. At the request of the project's initiators, Laurent Grandguillaume and Louis Gallois, we decided, rather than waiting five years, to evaluate the scheme at mid-term. Three evaluations were carried out. The first was carried out by the IGF and IGAS, which mainly sought to establish whether the starting hypothesis – the transformation of passive expenditure into active expenditure – was true, i.e. whether social investment was in the economy. I would point out that under this scheme, the Ministry of Labour allocates 18,000 euros per person in the form of wages, and another 5,000 euros of start-up aid. Another, more qualitative evaluation was carried out by independent experts. Finally, the project proponents conducted a self-assessment. These three evaluations overlap partly, and partly diverge. We have decided, in an innovative way, to put everyone in the same room to explain themselves and understand these differences: are they due to the fact that the evaluators did not take into account the same elements? An attempt is made to arrive at a common diagnosis to identify together the conditions of an extension of the device. This can happen without waiting for the end of the five years, but it is necessary to determine the elements that work well and that need to be strengthened – for example, local governance, an essential element at the origin of the project – and the elements that need to be improved, to be specified according to the local context – rural or urban... In a few weeks' time, we will have a shared assessment and convergent proposals, which will allow the extension of the experiment to a bill in 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u238	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u239	Madam Minister, you said earlier that you liked the INSEE figures. I'll mention two of them, too. Two days ago, on January 6, INSEE published a study on the number of employed and self-employed jobs by department, and its evolution between 2017 and 2018. There are thirty-eight departments – a very significant number! – posted in 2018 a decrease in the number of their jobs, employees and self-employed. These departments include many rural departments in central France. You will no doubt answer to me that this development is the result of a demographic decline in these departments. But in most of them – I am thinking in particular of the Tarn-et-Garonne, which my colleague Sylvia Pinel here is well aware of – the population has continued to grow as the number of jobs has declined. Minister, the policies you have launched over the past two years lead to a weakening of the employment situation in some departments. The reform of unemployment insurance, which you have imposed on the social partners, also contributes to this imbalance. So, what do you intend to do to prevent the social and territorial divides from getting worse, since the distortions are now very important? My second question concerns staffing in the hospital public service. The study published by the INSEE on December 17, 2019 reveals that "in the hospital public service, the number of staff decreased slightly in 2018 [...], after a near-stability in 2017 [...]. Here too, the decrease is the result of the reduction in the number of contracts assisted. [...] The drop in staff includes hospitals (– 0.4% including aided contracts)." As you can see, Minister, your policy on assisted contracts has had a negative impact on hospitals, some of which have been under strike since June 2019 – a first, both in terms of scope and duration. When you removed the assisted jobs, you said you wanted to provide alternatives. We didn't see any for hospitals. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u240	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u241	Mrs Rabault, you are asking several important questions. One of the risks of economic development is the increase in territorial differentiation which has been observed for the last 20 years in terms of unemployment. Employment goes to employment, economic activity goes to economic activity. Jobs are concentrated in metropolitan areas, while rural areas are experiencing desertification. For example, in some 20 departments the unemployment rate is 7 per cent, while in others it is 10 per cent, 14 per cent or 23 per cent in the overseas regions. This differentiation requires corrections, which can involve action on infrastructure – mobility and access to 4G are essential elements in the fight against job loss in the territories – action of an inter-ministerial nature, but also, in the field of employment policies, selective discrimination aimed at supporting the populations and territories most in need. We have taken this into account in our contracts with the regions for skill investment plans. As far as assisted contracts are concerned, they have not been abolished – the legal basis still exists – but transformed into career paths skills, for reasons that we have already explained for a long time. We have added accompaniment and training, and it can be seen that after the new career paths skills, sustainable hiring rates are higher. Indeed, the aim of the aided contracts is not to give free labour to employers, they were public, but to allow people in difficulty to return to employment. Hospitals can benefit from this, provided they offer support and training. But the hospital public service also suffers from a lack of attractiveness and many positions remain vacant. This is a subject on which my colleague Minister for Solidarity and Health is working with professionals in the sector to improve working conditions and sometimes pay in hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u242	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u243	Minister, to ask the Government about the policy to combat unemployment is obviously to ask it about the means it is using to accompany job seekers. During the discussions on the 2020 budget for the "Work and Employment" mission, we had already been a few to ask you about the place of the employment initiatives launched by the territories, and how to support them. These initiatives include employment centres: they were set up in 2004 at the initiative of Jean-Louis Borloo, in order to be entrusted, as closely as possible to the realities of the employment basins, with a coordinating role of the various actors in employment: the public employment service, but also local authorities, businesses, professional organisations, social partners and associations. Thus, the employment houses, in a close partnership with the State, defined by their specifications, orchestrated territorial initiatives in order to better respond to the specificities of the employment areas in the face of unemployment. In recent years, however, the State has made the choice to withdraw from it financially. Last November, during the budget debate, some colleagues proposed the creation of an experimental fund for territorial initiatives. We suggested launching an experiment in the neighbourhoods of the city's policy aimed at opening up the work of local employment actors, drawing on the experience of a working group set up last year within the European Metropole in Lille. This experience has led to the joint work of organizations that, although involved in the fight against unemployment, are not used to acting in partnership. Thus, in general, territorial employment initiatives are developing, territories are places of innovation, and the state should support and encourage these initiatives. So, Madam Minister, what place do you intend to give to territorial employment initiatives? What tools and devices do you intend to go to give these initiatives the means to develop?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u244	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u245	Mr Christophe, many territorial initiatives can be supported and supported by my ministry. This is true of the long-term zero-unemployed-territories scheme, which we have mentioned, of integration through economic activity, of adapted enterprises and of local initiatives. As far as employment houses are concerned, I have decided to maintain their funding at the same level as last year, at EUR 5 million. These organizations work closely with the Alliance villes emploi association, which coordinates them; It believes that further development of the network is needed. Indeed, when the system was created – and that was a very good idea – there was no public service of today's employment. Most actors understand that there is a need to act in complementarity and intelligence with others: this work is under way. But employment centres can also benefit from the funding opportunities represented by calls for projects in the area of forward-looking management of employment and skills – many of them at local level –, digital training or green jobs, and innovation in general. One example: the Employment House of the Grand Périgueux responded to the call for projects "Professional integration of refugees" and was selected; It will receive 450,000 euros over three years to be part of the innovative actors in the field of integration and training of refugees, and will hire people who will take care of them on a full-time basis. Thus, we can also act on a contractual basis, by project: this gives everyone their freedom of initiative, but allows us to develop better solutions together in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u246	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u247	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the unemployment of persons with disabilities and more specifically about the mechanism for degressivity of the adult disability benefit – AAH – provided for in the event that the beneficiary has a job. The AAH is a conditional assistance to persons with disabilities in order to guarantee a minimum income. Although we welcome its increase, decided by the Government, the degressive nature of this aid, in proportion to the resources received from work, does not encourage research and employment. Indeed, many people with disabilities and who are motivated to find a job have no advantage in doing so, since if they remain unemployed they will receive at least as much. I had this particular case in my constituency of the Vosges, where the person, very motivated, was dismayed by this state of affairs. The degression of the AAH therefore does not favour the fight against unemployment: it is even a clear obstacle to the incentive to find a job. Minister, the AHA mechanism should be calibrated to provide incentives for persons with disabilities who wish to develop in the workplace, that is, simply to favour a person who works in relation to a person who is unemployed. It seems fair and sensible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u248	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u249	Mr President, the question you are asking applies not only to people with disabilities, but more generally to our public policies. The inevitable partitioning of these – resource policies for people with difficulties or disabilities, employment support policies... – creates situations where people are not encouraged to return to employment, and you have described one. The Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, Sophie Cluzel, is working on this smoothing problem. It was in the same spirit that we increased the activity premium under the Act on Economic and Social Emergency Measures, because for some people it was not interesting to take a job. The activity premium has allowed us to cross this bar: not only has it increased the purchasing power of our most precarious fellow citizens, with the lowest income, but it has also ensured that we earn more and more by choosing to work. In any case, our philosophy is clear: we must always earn more by working than by receiving an unemployment benefit or insurance. So it is in this state of mind – work must always pay more than inactivity – that we must deal with Sophie Cluzel the problem you raise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u251	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u252	Many areas such as my department, Tarn-et-Garonne, warrant a particular effort in training and combating unemployment. Despite the obvious need for proximity to effectively combat unemployment and respond to the different territorial dynamics, the regions have been removed from the regulation of the opening of apprenticeship training centres by law for the freedom to choose their professional future. This competence has been entrusted to the professional branches, which develop a private apprenticeship market, financed at a cost to the contract which they fix uniformly. This new funding model threatens former CFAs, particularly those in rural areas or those in rare occupations. Minister, how can you justify this choice when the Government welcomed the record number of apprentices trained in our country in June 2019, the result of the persistent efforts of regional elected officials? Would it not be wise to trust the regions and local and regional authorities, which have real expertise in this area? I am convinced that only strong regional governance will bring together the various actors through partnerships involving the State, the professional branches, training bodies and businesses. I wanted to ask you about a second subject: the need, in order to facilitate the return to employment, to strengthen the attractiveness of certain occupations, particularly in sectors where many jobs are not filled. The Tarn-et-Garonne tree growers, for example, have struggled this year to recruit seasonal workers, so much so that the fruits of some orchards could not be picked up, resulting in a clear loss of earnings for the producers. However, old-age or building occupations face the same recruitment difficulties, particularly as a result of their persistence. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] How do you intend to invest in the upgrading of these professions, which is an essential step in directing the unemployed towards the sectors in tension? How can we better recognize the persistence of these trades?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u253	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u254	Mrs Pinel, you are asking two important questions. As far as learning is concerned, I have nothing against decentralisation, on the contrary. We are also demonstrating our belief in decentralisation, since, under the Skills Investment Plan, we are transferring an additional €6 billion to the regions for the training of jobseekers. However, it must be recognized that learning has been stagnating for years. In fact, it increased for exits with a level of higher education but decreased for the others, especially for exits with a level 4 or 5. For months, we have held consultations with the social partners, the regions, the CFA directors and the actors on the ground. Once identified, all brakes were lifted. As we believe in freedom of initiative, we have thus authorized the development of CFA without administrative authorization. We did so despite the disagreement between the regions because we felt that it was in the general interest. What do we see? Thanks to this freedom given by the law, the number of apprentices has increased by 8.4%; Several dozen training places have already been created out of the 500 projects announced. Meters are exploding everywhere, whether in chambers of commerce and industry, in chambers of commerce and crafts, in the Companions of Duty or in rural family homes, thanks to the dynamics that we have allowed in the actors. Moreover, after having been concerned, the CFA directors are now very satisfied with the reform. Now we have to move on to the next step. We have left the regions with the competence to invest while strengthening their prerogatives in the field of guidance. We work hand in hand with many regions. Everyone has a role to play: businesses, branches, regions, the state. We did not recentralize, but we freed the players' game and provided funding. Learning mobilizes much more money and actors, which we can rejoice at for the young people of our country and for businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u255	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u256	Last October, the Court of Auditors alerted us to the employment situation of our compatriots over 50 years of age. It is clear: in our country, the employment rate for the 55-64 age group is 52.3%, which is six points below the European average. Even more problematic is the fact that a senior remains twice as unemployed as all other jobseekers. According to this report, companies are particularly reluctant to hire employees over 52 years of age, who are considered too old for the world of work. Personally, I believe that this must lead us to question our social conception of age. Where some see a tare, I see the guarantee of a certain experience. In this context, while waiting to retire, our citizens often resolve to live with unemployment benefit, a specific solidarity benefit – ASS – when they have exhausted their rights, or other social minimums, because they are without any prospect of employment. This support by national solidarity and unemployment insurance amounts to EUR 1.5 billion per year. Minister, at a time when we are talking about the reform of our pension system and the possible creation of an age of balance, this reality is unacceptable. In this regard, let me quote a proverb from my home, from Cantal: bread of old age knelt during youth! [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] How does the Government intend to promote the employment of older persons and facilitate their transition to retirement? How do you intend to combat the exclusion and insecurity that affect them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u257	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u258	Mr El Guerrab, we are making the same observation. The employment rate of people up to 59 years of age corresponds to the European average and is quite high, but it collapses for older people: only one in three people work after 60 years. And while the unemployment rate among seniors is only 6%, long-term unemployment is more important in this category than in others. It's a trap hatch that's hard to get out of. In the context of the reform of our pension system, it is impossible not to address this issue. This reform is even an opportunity to take even bolder action than we already do, in order to enable the elderly, the experienced, to make their contribution to society and the economy. That is why yesterday we held a meeting at the Ministry of Labour with the Prime Minister and Laurent Pietraszewski, Secretary of State for Pensions, in order to launch a consultation on the employment of seniors and another on penitibility, the two topics being linked since the prevention of penitibility plays a role in the employability of seniors. It is also necessary to prevent the obsolescence of skills. The reform of vocational training will enable older people to have greater access to the right to training, from which they are often excluded, when they have the same skills and needs as others in this field. Consideration must also be given to adapting working conditions and improving the system of progressive retirement and of cumulation of employment and retirement, which corresponds to a great social aspiration. We're also going to have to change recruitment software, mentality. While one in two companies is struggling to recruit, we cannot continue to exclude young people, some of them women, seniors, people with disabilities, refugees and people in reintegration! We need everyone. No one is unemployable, provided that they have the means to do so, which will be the subject of future debates in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u259	The last question in this debate is Mr Sébastien Chenu's.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u260	Forty-one years ago, on 12 December 1978, the Usinor-Denain plant was closed. France knew the most dramatic plan of layoffs in its history: 12,000 jobs sacrificed, including 5000 in the only city of Denain of which I am the deputy. At the time, French workers were already victims of globalization and wild competition with Chinese steel. The closure of the Usinor-Denain plant is unfortunately only an episode of the long list of social plans and factory closures abandoned by the State in the name of the sacrosanct principle of the free opening of borders and free trade. Since then, the process has accelerated further. Since 1980, 1.5 million industrial jobs have been destroyed in our country. The litany of the factory closures blazes endlessly: Michelin, Moulinex, Danone, Alstom... The state that could not do everything, to use a well-known expression, multiplied the effects of useless sleeves and, too often, left the French industry alone in the face of unfair competition. Last September, SNCF, for the purchase of twenty-eight electric power trainsets from intercity trains, preferred to place an order from a Spanish manufacturer instead of using Alstom. Last episode in date: the General Directorate of Armaments has just ordered 44 million euros of pistols from Austrian and Czech companies, the ammunition market having been taken away by an American company. The last French gun manufacturer, Verney-Carron, was dismissed from the tender in a questionable manner. We had tremendous expertise in the field of small arms and light weapons, which has been scuttled. If French leaders had been concerned about France's strategic interests, then the French industries and their jobs would never have disappeared. How can you, Madam Minister, say that you are implementing an effective employment policy when you refuse to apply real economic patriotism, which the National Rally is the only one to defend?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u261	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u262	Mr President, you are making two assertions with which I do not agree. In fact, we agree only on one point: industry is important in one country, because every industrial job generates four jobs around it, especially in services. That is why we are leading a vigorous policy through the Territories of Industry programme and the future productive pact. We work with all industry professionals, because we need to anticipate the future. We can't stop technological progress and evolution, we can't stop the internet. Our industry will be profoundly transformed by digital technology and ecology. In the framework of the productive pact, we will help companies to evolve. Last year, and for the first time in a long time, the industry re-created net jobs after losing a lot of jobs. But these are not necessarily the same as in the past: therefore, employees must be trained in these new jobs. I totally disagree with you when you imagine that closing the borders would protect employment. All the experiments prove the opposite. A Spanish or German company can indeed win a call for projects. Nevertheless, in many cases French companies benefit from this market opening, regulated by Europe and international treaties, which has a positive impact on employment in France. Let us remember that, on our soil, 6 million jobs in the private sector are the result of our international opening: 2 million are the result of foreign investment and 4 million produce for export. We must continue to transform the industry to create more jobs in the future. This is one of our top priorities. We will succeed not by trying to protect ourselves by closing but by being better, competitive, thanks to well-trained employees who see their future in the industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u263	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u264	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u265	The next item is the debate on the implementation of labour law orders. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Conference of Presidents has decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to the traditional question-and-answer session. Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u266	Two years after the enactment of the enabling law to take measures to strengthen social dialogue, it is clear that the promises have not been fulfilled. According to all the actors I have had the opportunity to audition as co-rapporteur on the application of the text, you have lost your bet. You have damaged the social dialogue – basically, isn't it the trademark of this executive? You also promised that the flexibilisation of the labour market through the ordinances would respond to the security of workers through the reform of unemployment insurance. As a result, 40 per cent of unemployed people who were compensated losers. But this second unfulfilled promise is another debate. The reforms undertaken by the Government were not requested by the social partners: they did not respond enthusiastically and the companies even dragged their feet. The new conventional architecture has not given rise to any agreement and the soft notion of "guarantees at least equivalent" remains an object of academic speculation. In the last two years that it has been applied in companies with less than fifty employees, the mechanism of negotiation without a mandate has failed to convince employees' trade unions of the virtues that you gave it. No more enthusiasm for employees or business leaders! The increase in referendum agreements since the beginning of 2019 is very modest and cyclical as it is linked to the exceptional purchasing power premium. For the rest, the agreements only validate business practices. The balance sheet is therefore not very glorious, especially since, in principle, the approval by referendum of a draft agreement by the employer is the antithesis of negotiation. This measure, which exposes employees who are insufficiently trained and protected, continues to give rise to the unanimous condemnation of trade union organisations, which see it as one of the most questionable provisions of the ordinances, as it weakens social dialogue. Not content with bypassing trade union organizations, labour orders weaken them. This is the case with the conditions for the implementation of the new Social and Economic Committee – SEC – which replaces the Works Council – EC – and the Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions – CHSCT. Many companies are seeing a decline in their resources. This is particularly the case for enterprises with at least 50 employees: regardless of the number of employees in question, the number of members of the SSC varies from 27% to 50% in relation to the combined number of delegates of the staff members of the EC and the CHSCT. The decrease is particularly marked for small and medium-sized enterprises with a workforce of between fifty and one hundred and twenty-four employees, each losing 50% of the incumbents compared to the previous situation. The monthly number of hours of delegation is also decreasing, by an average of 48%, compared to the cumulative hours of EC and CHSCT staff delegates. According to the data published on 30 September by DARES in the framework of the evaluations conducted by the Labour Orders Evaluation Committee, there is considerable delay in the implementation of the SSCs, despite an acceleration in the second half of the year. As of that date, only 50% of companies with more than 11 employees had complied with the law. Where social dialogue was of good quality, it remained so; where it was lacking, it did not improve. The Government's orders did not allow the promised momentum for social dialogue to be initiated. Worse still, they have sometimes contributed to weakening it when it was fragile by reducing the resources and prerogatives of staff representatives. The findings are shared by the three Co-Chairs of the Work Orders Evaluation Committee, who have also noted in many negotiated agreements the willingness not to change existing balances. This trend has most often resulted in a lack of shared diagnosis and in-depth reflection on what the social dialogue of tomorrow in the company could be. Among those interviewed – I am thinking in particular of representatives of consulting firms – many even consider that the negotiations on the SSC have helped to cripple relations between employee representatives and employers, including in companies where social dialogue was previously of good quality. The unions of employees, as well as the representatives of several consulting firms, insist on the unequal balance of power between management and employee representatives in the negotiation of the establishment of the SSC. Therefore, for future staff representatives, negotiations focus primarily on defence of resources, to the point that they are sometimes willing to give up some of their prerogatives, which obviously cannot be regarded as progress. In many cases, in the absence of sufficient counterweight to allow them to demand more compensation from the employer, the staff representatives sign the agreements reluctantly, aware that they undertake a regression from the point of view of means and prerogatives in relation to the previous situation. I am short of time, Madam Minister of Labour, to complete this minimal control exercise, but the question-and-answer session will allow us to begin the discussion. I hope that in your answers you will not be content to pronounce a satisfecite on your policy and that you will agree to reconsider it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u267	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u268	The enabling law to take measures to strengthen social dialogue by ordinance has now been applied for nearly two years. It was the first act of the Government, as soon as it came to power, in its undertaking to demolish the collective rights of employees. Abolition of the CHSCT, reversal of the hierarchy of standards, recourse to the project contract, source of precarisation: we witness a real deterioration of the working conditions and of the work itself, as an act of production, place of relations, gesture of emancipation. [[Smile. – Mr Boris Vallaud applauds]] To feed into the debate on the implementation of labour orders, it would have been very interesting to rely on the evaluation report of the co-rapporteurs Boris Vallaud and Laurent Pietraszewski, but he was called upon to put his experience at the service of the destruction of our solidarity pension system, this report will not come to light. We deeply regret that. Today we are experiencing a violent social and economic crisis. As with pensions, the Government is wrong in its diagnosis: those responsible for the crisis are not the employees who would have too much rights or too much wages, but the big owners of finance. As soon as we first announced the Labour Orders Bill, we had alerted you, Madam Minister, about the danger to millions of employees. We must admit that we were right. The implementation of labour orders results in fewer discussions, fewer negotiations between workers' trade unions and employers, and thus reduced rights. The MEDEF thanks you once again for these measures! The law of authorization to take measures to strengthen social dialogue by ordinance does not bear its name well. You wanted more freedom and security for both the employer and the employee, but what you gave first, you took second. The law for the freedom to choose one's professional future had to ensure the protection of employees, but it obviously did not escape your logic of deregulation and liberalisation. There are already several elements that confirm my remarks. As noted by the Labour Orders Evaluation Committee in June 2018, the directors of human resources "are few in number to consider that the orders make it easier to recruit, but largely majority in order to say that they simplify dismissal procedures. He further notes that a large majority of leaders do not consider resorting to negotiation more often. All is said: the main ambition of labour orders was to weaken bargaining, simplify redundancies and, by removing certain standards, modify the balance of power for the benefit of employers. Reducing the powers and rights of employees in the company to give more power to the owners of the means of production and exchange: this is the heart of your reform. For the Government, there are too many trade unionists, too many means of intervention, too much power for the bodies representing the staff! In enterprises with at least 50 employees, the number of full members of the SSC decreases from 27% to 50% compared to the combined number of staff delegates, ECs and CHSCTs. When it comes to the renewal of the social dialogue, we will come back! As for the suppression of CHSCT, the fears it raises are still so acute. Workers' trade unions fear the lack of responsiveness, attention and competence of the SSC on issues related to workers' health and safety. The SSC, which emerged from the consolidation of the two previous bodies, will indeed have less time and skills to work and alert on these specific and essential issues. However, gains in productivity, profitability and competitiveness are all too often at the expense of the health of those who work. Many choices, behaviours and rights remain to be conquered in order to better prevent, recognize and cure occupational diseases. The freezing of the tables of occupational diseases is proof that the social dialogue has broken down in our country! Industrial accidents – I am of course thinking of the recent fire at the Lubrizol plant – also underline the need for bodies to act in practice, on a daily basis, on safety issues, particularly in the Seveso listed sites: that they are like the others subject to labour orders is a real problem. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] As Boris Vallaud has just pointed out, the logic of these ordinances has led, in some companies, to blackmail in employment. Minister, your theory of milling grain has led to social dialogue and ground rights! It is therefore a poor assessment that you are now showing in view of the objectives that you have set yourself. There is an urgent need to set in motion new social and economic dynamics in our country, and to restore meaning to work in life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u269	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u270	Like last year, a week of National Assembly control provides us with an opportunity to take stock of the orders ratified and signed in September 2017. The purpose of these orders was to define a new articulation of the company agreement and the branch agreement, while extending the scope of collective bargaining in a secure manner; simplify and strengthen economic and social dialogue and its actors by transforming the landscape of staff representative institutions; Finally, to make the rules applicable to the employment relationship more predictable and more secure for both employers and employees. It is therefore the whole of the Labour Code on collective bargaining – branch and company – that has been amended by these ordinances, which have made it possible to define new ways of negotiating and validating agreements. They have thus brought a panel of solutions to problems which have been posed for many years in companies and which overcomplicate their functioning or sclerosis their development. At the time, the MODEM group had fully supported this project, the aim of which was to achieve a better recognition of each other's particular situation and a better distribution of the contribution of all to new societal balances. Minister, we knew two years ago that it would take time for such a project to have its full effect. Last April, you told us that a positive dynamic was beginning to start. Our group will therefore be very attentive to the second progress report that you will be presenting to us in a few moments. There is already a higher proportion of open-ended contracts, certainly linked to the introduction of the labour scale; Moreover, the number of disputes to the workers has decreased. We are particularly interested in the situation of very small enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises, which make up the vast majority of the French entrepreneurial fabric: 96% of our enterprises employ less than 20 employees. The main measures contained in the ordinances were intended to focus on social dialogue within these structures, where the collective bargaining rate was just over 20% in 2016. Another topic is the installation of social and economic committees, or SSCs, which normally have to be completed. Of the 40,000 companies affected by this obligation, you told us last year that 23000 had complied with it. What about today? Have the difficulties encountered, particularly in terms of information, been overcome? Have the departmental economic and social observatories that have gradually been established made possible the link between these small enterprises and the state? As far as collective performance agreements are concerned, have companies, particularly the smallest of them, seized the scheme, and to what extent? I am also thinking of the mechanism for companies with one to twenty employees without elected representatives to negotiate with employees on all matters through a simple consultation in which a two-thirds majority is required. With regard to the agreements actually signed, do you have any concrete examples of the negotiations concluded on these new bases within TPEs and SMEs that have combined economic performance with social performance? Finally, I come to the task of grouping around the branch, which was only in its infancy last year. In this regard, companies do not seem to have fully grasped the perimeters and areas of negotiation that we have opened up to them. What are the Government's proposals in the face of this pitfall? Is company support, for example, on the agenda? To conclude this absolutely necessary control exercise, especially with regard to orders, we would like, Madam Minister, to reaffirm our full support for the transformation that you have been conducting since 2017. We must continue, collectively, to make every effort to structurally renew our social dialogue and to restore the confidence that is so lacking in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u271	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u272	This debate has not come better, Madam Minister: we will discuss the consequences of the application of labour orders at a time when the country is experiencing a historic social mobilization against your pension reform, which aims to introduce the famous point-by-point system. In every reform of the quinquennium its elements of language. The work ordinances, we remember, were going to "liberate the energies"; They even invited us to make the "betting of trust in social dialogue". That was great! The reform of point-based retirement, which will force the French to work more to earn less, is "just", it is "simple", it is "for all". But it is not because we repeat it infinitely that this becomes true! You are simply preparing the raffle retreat: we know the purchase price of the ticket, but not the value of the lot, which we are not sure to win. Above all, to contain at its present level the share of wealth devoted to pensions although, according to demographic projections, the proportion of seniors in the population must, it, continue to increase, you will make people's lives a variable of accounting adjustment by pushing them to work ever longer, beyond healthy life expectancy – unless they have put enough money aside, in pension funds and capitalized retirement savings products, to be able to go to the legal age, maintained at 62 years. By the way, you'll make the much-awaited gift of a beautiful stock of Smarties boxes to insurers, banks and other managers like BlackRock. This is unacceptable, and that is why a majority of French people want this reform to be withdrawn. So you tried to make up reality by coming to talk to us – still elements of language – about universality, in particular to call for the end of special regimes. Universality, what a beautiful goal! Universality, as it is with variable geometry since the strike began! Universality, what a beautiful alibi! Universality among the objectives of the Republic on the move is just a bad joke. That brings us back to work orders – rest assured, I have not forgotten the subject of our discussion. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you who, together with the Government, claim to put an end to the special schemes, you are the biggest creators of them: the work orders have come precisely to detriculate, destroy, crush a common rule that applied to all – the labour code – to create as many different rules as there are of companies through the negotiation undertaken by company. And the irony of the fate, the funniest part of the case, is that it is the rapporteur of the enabling bill that allowed the work orders, Mr Laurent Pietraszewski, who has worked to create this multitude of special schemes with you, that is entrusted today with the task of bringing to fruition the creation of a universal pension scheme. It has such a good back, universality! In fact, you will create as many special pension plans as there will be generations. Like your uncompromising gifts to the rich, like your reform of unemployment insurance which suggests that, in your opinion, it is the unemployed themselves who are responsible for unemployment rather than your policy, your work orders, another pillar of your action, have come to increase the precariousness of employment, already large in France. Indeed, by promoting the CDD as you have done and by generalizing the famous CDI of construction, which has no CDI but the name, you yourself have contributed to aggravating this precariousness which you have started complaining about in recent months. But you did not stop there: you have also considerably simplified the dismissal and weakened the means available to trade unions within the company by merging previously independent bodies. For what results? We have just spent the afternoon commenting on them: a situation from which you are not able to leave the country, a mass unemployment which you have renounced to really fight, preferring to rejoice at some statistics obtained at the cost of a worsening of the precariousness. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] While waiting for an effective policy to combat unemployment by sharing working time, breaking up with free trade, rising wages and ecological planning, we still have work – work to finish by identifying all the social plans disguised as a collective conventional break, which appear under the title "Smile, you are fired! » on the website https://docpenicaud.fr!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u273	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u274	The aim of the work orders was to provide predictability and security for businesses, boost growth and create more jobs. They have undeniably provided solutions, in addition to other legislative instruments such as the so-called PACTE law on business growth and transformation, in particular on the issue of thresholds, which overcomplicate the operation of enterprises and constitute obstacles to growth. The majority of the IDU, Agir and Independent Group had accordingly authorized the Government to make an order and then to ratify the work orders. However, the implementation of the latter is not yet fully effective and faces real difficulties. The question of the capping of compensation for unfair dismissal is quite a good illustration. Our group had supported the measure in the name of the principle of greater predictability for employers, although we were concerned that the scale might be circumvented quickly. The proliferation of decisions calling into question its conformity with the law has undeniably represented a setback with regard to the legal certainty covered by the orders. The recognition by the Court of Cassation in July 2019 of the contractuality of the scale did not put an end to all the polemics, since the Court's opinions remained of general scope and did not bind the judges on the merits. The evidence is that the Reims Court of Appeal held last September that the scale, in some cases, could constitute a "disproportionate infringement" of the employee's right to adequate compensation in the event of unjustified dismissal. The application of the scale could therefore, on a case-by-case basis, be excluded despite its conformity with international texts. Similar uncertainties accompany the establishment of social and economic committees. The merger of employee representative bodies was to give rise, in companies with more than 11 employees, to this new single body. However, according to estimates, between 15 and 30 % of these companies have not yet formed a social and economic committee, although this was to be done on 1 January 2020. In detail, 50,000 SSCs have been created for two years and 21,000 are being installed, but at least 15% would be missing from the call. At the same time, the reform of the ordinances was aimed at facilitating social dialogue within the TPEs and SMEs, by allowing companies with fewer than fifty employees to negotiate directly with an elected staff member on all matters. Could you give us an update, Madam Minister? Let me turn to one last point: the reform of the penitential account. Since its inception in the previous pension reform in 2014, there have been significant obstacles to its implementation, and the scheme has not contributed to a genuine recognition of the difficulties faced by employees at work. One of the main demands of the social partners is the reintroduction of the criterion of penitibility for those who carry heavy loads, who are exposed to vibrations, dangerous chemical agents or painful postures. These factors, considered too difficult to assess by companies, have not been sufficiently taken into account. They are nevertheless recognized as early retirement for permanent incapacity when the employee is a victim of a permanent partial incapacity of at least 10 %. Minister, what are the Government's orientations on this subject in the context of the ongoing consultation?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u275	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u276	As rapporteur of the "Work and Employment" mission of the Finance Bill, I am particularly honoured to participate in this debate on the implementation of the Labour Law Orders, a series of texts that are often wrongly reduced to the replacement of staff representative bodies by the Social and Economic Committee. Wrongly, because the philosophy of these ordinances is much broader. It corresponds to a shared conviction among the majority: that tomorrow's labour standard must be co-developed by the social partners, first and foremost within the company, in order to be more flexible, more specific, more concrete, more responsive to the expectations of both employees and businesses. It seems necessary to recall the background to these orders in order to better understand how they were required and where we are now. On the employment front, the labour market situation in France was characterized by an unemployment rate that had remained above 9% over the last ten years. Within hirings, the proportion of CSDs increased from 76% in 1993 to 87% in 2017. And it was the establishments with fewer than ten employees and the construction sector that most often indicated that they would recruit in CSDs to avoid the weight of the rules applicable to CDIs. On the social bargaining front, 15% of companies with ten or more employees in the non-agricultural trading sector engaged in at least collective bargaining in all themes in 2016. Finally and more broadly, labour law, which was largely built after the Second World War for and by large companies, was no longer suitable for international competition or for TPEs and SMEs. The stated objectives of these ordinances were therefore threefold, and it is only with these objectives that the French must judge the effectiveness of these ordinances two years after their implementation. With regard to securing labour relations and reducing uncertainty as to the legal cost of redundancies, three mechanisms have contributed to this objective: the introduction of the compensation scheme for unfair dismissals without real and serious cause, the simplification of the legal regime for economic redundancies and the introduction of collective contractual breakdown. INSEE figures show that the share of companies citing the risks associated with layoffs as a barrier to hiring decreased significantly in all sectors of activity, from 10% in September 2017 to 4% in September 2019 for service companies, for example. The scale also changed the behaviour of employees. A recent qualitative study by the Directorate of Research, Studies and Statistics, DARES, shows that employees tend to make more use of the transaction and that their claim for compensation is more appropriate. Baremisation has strengthened bargaining between employees and employers. With regard to the enlargement of collective bargaining, particularly for very small and medium-sized enterprises, the enterprise referendum was widely used – its use has increased by 161% – as a form of direct democracy in companies with up to 20 employees and as a means of stabilising consensual arrangements. Finally, on the simplification and strengthening of economic and social dialogue, collective performance agreements have fully met their objective. As the December 2019 DARES report points out, the PCAs have responded to the business needs. However, challenges remain. Firstly, the establishment of social and economic committees is currently part of a rather quantitative and minimalist approach to the application of legal provisions. Secondly, the merger of all the bodies into one raises the question of a representativeness that respects proximity. The third challenge concerns the paths of elected officials and their concrete work in the face of the new burdens that arise from this logic of concentration. It can be more intense but also more complex. What we must remember, however, is that the ordinances of 22 September 2017 made the bet of a profound change in the rules of social dialogue by promoting a culture of negotiation and compromise. This cultural change, which makes negotiation an opportunity to create a lever of progress and innovation, will only produce all its effects over a long period of time. However, the number of net job creations, the resumption of recruitment in industry, the current fall in the unemployment rate, the record rise in the CDI employment rate are the results of a policy aimed at decentralising negotiation at the enterprise level and giving confidence to employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u277	Tones of applause on the benches of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u278	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u279	The reform of the Labour Code intended by the President of the Republic and implemented by the Government as early as July 2017 had two clearly stated objectives in the draft law, the title of which was unambiguous: "Bill to strengthen social dialogue". Strengthening social dialogue and simplifying the labour code: these are two areas that the Group of the Republicans wanted, which therefore supported this commitment by voting for the bill, which was intended to allow a return to the development of enterprises and employment. It is regrettable that, by not building on the strong links between parliamentarians, territories and businesses, Parliament has become a mere chamber of recording executive texts, while co-construction of texts with all partners guaranteed the quality and acceptance of projects by all. Thus the hopes he had created were disappointed. Today, the regional daily press quotes elements communicated by INSEE and which are unappealable: after a slight fall of which one can only rejoice, unemployment has gone up again in nine of the ten departments of the Greater East region. This seems to be in contradiction with the nearly 10% increase in the number of start-ups, also reported by INSEE. In fact, these creations are mostly micro-enterprises, created by self-entrepreneurs, often too little prepared – you have unfortunately! Removed the obligation to take a training course – their survival rate is low. Many of them are coming in our permanence to seek advice and support, while in the Vosges the representative of the State remains very much in retreat with regard to economic and social problems. I would like to give an example of your department's procrastination with respect to SSCs. While the objective of simplification was commendable, implementation showed its limitations. Indeed, in December 2019, between 15% and 20% of CSE were not yet in place. While you announced at the beginning of last month that 50000 single bodies were now installed, 21000 deficiency reports were sent to the Ministry of Labour. In fact, the social partners wanted a postponement of application for a few months, but you refused to do so. What would happen to these companies, Madam Minister, if the offence of obstruction were to be retained? The consequences would then be catastrophic! On the other hand, the document entitled "Questions/Responses on the SSC", released on December 18 by the Ministry of Labour, makes a notable step backwards by restricting the right of access to training "health, safety and working conditions", which lasts three or five days depending on the size of the enterprises, to the members of the SSCT commission only and excluding all other members of the SSC. This position is incomprehensible and contrary to the will of the legislator. Indeed, your ministry cites as justification an old version of Article L. 2315-18 of the Labour Code when Parliament has opened the right to training to all members of the SSC, although fewer since the reform. This provision is all the more incomprehensible since, in the context of pension reform, the so-called "penitibility" aspects are finally at the centre of the debate. However, who more than companies, SSCs, social partners and branches can determine what tasks are difficult with occupational health services? This is a responsible social dialogue, which requires the training of all actors. So do you intend to go back to this measure? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the business side, many projects have been opened, as they wish, but the contradictory evolution of the texts and the difficulty in applying them make them more cautious and prudent in the realization of their projects, and this is felt on growth. For the social partners, management paritarianism did not survive the unemployment insurance decree, becoming a guarantee paritarianism. The consequence is distrust, when social progress, like economic progress, requires trust and stability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u280	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u281	The Government has put the quinquennium under the sign of reform. The President of the Republic had already attacked several projects before that of pensions, in particular that of the reform of the labour code, which you defended, Madam Minister, an expected reform, the evolution of our society must be accompanied by a necessary transition to adapt the labour market to the challenges of a changing world and modernise our social model while preserving it and giving priority to dialogue and joint work. The Government seemed to have understood this when it made the strengthening of social dialogue one of its priorities. However, as has too often been the case since the beginning of the legislature, the reform of the Labour Code has been carried out by ordinances and without genuine parliamentary consultation being organised upstream, which we can only regret. With regard to such a structuring subject for our society, the choice of ordinances was not wise, especially in a social context in which the intermediate bodies were constantly weakening. After an initial assessment in April, we are again given the opportunity to assess the effects of these orders. Some of these measures were needed and expected by businesses, particularly small and very small enterprises. To combat persistent unemployment, adapt to an increasingly open world of trade, economic and technological upheavals, but also to meet the new aspirations of some employees, our labour market needed more flexibility. I haveten to point out that greater flexibility does not mean less security. Our labour code also had to accompany developments in employment and secure new practices. We welcome certain measures which we consider to be progress, such as the easier use of telework, or the increase in the statutory redundancy benefit, which is increased by 25 % up to 10 years of service. The strengthening of social dialogue has been placed at the heart of this reform. Yet his balance sheet is half-tinted. It should be remembered that these orders should benefit each of the players, in particular the TPEs and SMEs. As of September 2017, at the time of the reform, 96% of TPEs had no unions. There was therefore an urgent need to empower small businesses in order to foster dialogue within their structures. But companies are struggling to seize the opportunities offered by the ordinances. I would like to point out the example of the Economic Social Committee, which is the result of the merger of the bodies representing the staff, and which companies with more than 11 employees have had to set up since 1 January. This measure is interesting in that it removes the thresholds that discourage certain companies from hiring when they are about to cross them. However, it takes time for the movement to get started: in November 2018, only 10500 companies had set up a CSE, instead of the 50 to 60000 expected – my colleague M'Jid El Guerrab will return to this point. Similarly, the effect of the prud'homal scale governing the amount of damages in the event of damage caused by a dismissal without real and serious cause, which was intended to provide more predictability for employees and businesses, is diminished due to legal uncertainties related to the legal context. The same applies to the new link between branch and company negotiations. This measure should make the company the preferred place for the creation of the social norm, in order to provide tailored responses to the specific needs of employees and enterprises as close to the field as possible. It is clear, however, that employee representatives continue to consider sectoral bargaining as more protective and that the derogation by company agreement is generally dictated by economic needs, not by the desire to improve the overall working environment within the company. Two years after the implementation of these ordinances, the record is therefore mixed. The strengthening of social dialogue, at the heart of this reform, has not yet reached the level expected. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Minister, given the limited impact of these orders, both in terms of numerical results and changes in corporate culture, it is essential to continue the work, to improve the arrangements. Our companies certainly need efficiency, but in a ruthless global context of social de-escalation, we also have to respond to the legitimate demand for protection expressed in the world of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u282	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u283	The implementation of labour orders, the subject of this debate called for by the Socialist and related groups, has raised several concerns on the part of the trade unions. I want to go back to four of them. The first concerns the creation of the Social and Economic Committee, which is compulsory in companies with at least 11 employees for 12 consecutive months. The SSCs are the result of the merger of the three former staff representative bodies: staff delegates, works council and health, safety and working conditions committee. Their elected representatives must now simultaneously exercise the powers previously assigned to three separate bodies, and must therefore show an increased requirement in the control of cases. While the Government's objective was to expand the skills of staff representatives in order to give them an overall view of the company's stakes, it seems, on the contrary, that the concentration of their responsibilities has the effect of discouraging many employees from running for office, which could ultimately slow down the pace of work of the SSCs. In addition, while you are asking elected officials for an increased investment in the SSC, you are making the choice, Minister, to reduce the resources allocated to this body in terms of hours of delegation, use of expertise and timing of information-consultation, as well as preventing alternates from attending SSC meetings in the presence of their incumbents. All these factors constitute obstacles to the rise of the competences of the elected representatives of the SSC. The second concern concerns occupational health and safety. While staff representation bodies have been merged within the SSC, the Ordinances provide for the possibility of setting up one or more health, safety and working conditions committees, to which the SSC may delegate its responsibilities in this area. Although it is premature to take stock of the work of these committees, the trade unions nevertheless express concerns about them. First of all, one can regret the disappearance of the CHSCT, which causes staff representatives to lose their ability to react immediately in the event of a danger to the safety or health of employees. In addition, the orders refer to collective bargaining in establishing the rules for the composition and operation of these commissions: number of members, manner of exercise, etc. It is therefore to be feared that certain agreements will comply with the legal minimum and lead to a step backwards from the existing one. In the event of disagreement, these rules shall be laid down in the rules of procedure, without any minimum provision. Thirdly, with regard to penitibility, and as we pointed out yesterday in questions to the Government, the rules that existed in 2017 allowed 800,000 employees to benefit from early retirement due to the length of their function, while the current rules only apply to 180,000 employees – hence a considerable reduction in the rights of employees. Fourthly, we also express a number of concerns about collective performance agreements, designed to adjust working hours, remuneration and the conditions for occupational mobility, in particular because of the legal flexibility with which they were designed. In fact, contrary to the agreements for the preservation and development of employment and the agreements for the maintenance of employment which they replace, collective performance agreements may be concluded by undertakings which do not necessarily encounter economic difficulties. This leads to the fear of a hijacking of the scheme in order to avoid the obligations of economic dismissal and the search for a successor. In addition, the employer is not required to include in collective performance agreements a return to better fortune clause. In fact, almost three-quarters of the agreements concluded so far are of indefinite duration, which does not require the employer to return to them at a later date, even in the event of an improvement in the company's economic situation – unless otherwise stated in the agreement. Such legal uncertainty can be particularly problematic, particularly in very small enterprises. [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] Finally, concerns have been raised about the possible diversion of certain collective performance agreements in undertakings within the same industry, which would adopt identical measures, in particular with regard to increasing working time, in order to collectively circumvent the collective agreement to which they belong. Since these agreements have not been made public, I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u284	We are done with the speakers in the groups. The Minister for Labour now has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u285	I will begin with a few general comments in response to your interventions. With regard to methodology, first of all, the work orders implement a commitment made by the President of the Republic during his campaign. What would you have said if this commitment had not been fulfilled? The drafting of the ordinances has been the subject of a close and unprecedented link between social democracy and political democracy, since they are the result of more than 300 hours of consultation with the social partners, an enabling law and a ratification law. What was the nature of our commitment? The aim was to create the conditions for a structured, readable and decentralised social dialogue, providing greater agility and security for employers as well as for employees and their representatives. Two years later, a new question arises: how does this potential cultural revolution, which we announced at the outset, would take years and would require a period of ownership by the actors, infuse our economy, in general and positively, especially the TPEs and SMEs, which it mainly targets, as long as they lack structured social dialogue?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u286	Today, they don't have any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u287	It must be noted that labour orders have, among other factors, helped to stimulate job creation in an uncertain context. For meeting close to 10,000 business leaders, mainly from TPE and SME, I can testify that they have only one remark in their mouth: "We are no longer afraid to hire." In fact, 540,000 net jobs have been created over two years, the unemployment rate has fallen by 1 per cent and CDI hirings are on the rise. As far as social dialogue is concerned, the positive dynamics are confirmed quantitatively and qualitatively. It's not finished, it's committed. Quantitative dynamics can be assessed in the light of the number of SSCs created, new agreements concluded – collective performance agreements and collective contractual breaks – and conventional practice, especially in enterprises with fewer than fifty and fewer than eleven employees, where it was rare. As of January 6, 2020, there are 53,700 SSCs, compared to 12,000 at December 31, 2018. Above all, 45% of them concern enterprises with less than fifty employees. While there is still a long way to go, the dynamics are nevertheless significant in small businesses. Since the Auroux Acts of 1982, there has never been such a clear evolution. Some of you have considered the process too slow, knowing that an acceleration occurred at the end of the two-year period. If the rhythm had been precipitated, you would have shouted at the passage in force! Above all, in many companies, the social partners and employers have decided to take their time and use these two years to completely redesign the architecture of their bodies. That seems positive to me. We trust the social dialogue on the ground and let it adopt its rhythm. Note that the number of 53700 SSCs is undervalued, as more than 19,000 minutes were sent in December and are pending processing. In any case, the momentum is on. I come to the collective conventional breakdowns, which are quite distinct from the plans to safeguard employment. As of 1 January 2020, 200 companies had seized the new scheme, and 140 agreements had been validated by the DIRECCTE – Regional Directorates of Enterprise, Competition, Consumption, Labour and Employment. Even more interesting, 40% of collective contractual breaks involved SMEs and ITEs. We are improving social dialogue in large companies, but we are also making it emerge in the TPEs and SMEs, in line with one of the ambitions of the law. All trade unions sign collective conventional breaks, as well as 80% of trade union delegates. In the event of a serious difficulty, this means that contracts can be broken down so as to be calmed. The same dynamic is at work for collective performance agreements, 256 of which have been signed – an average of ten per month – much higher than the level of competitiveness agreements concluded during the previous five-year period as a whole. This new modality is therefore very successful. Of the 256 collective performance agreements, 158 concern SMEs, 90% are signed with one or two trade union delegates and almost 60% are signed unanimously. Most of them deal with working time and pay. We either trust the social dialogue and we welcome the fact that the social partners find relevant agreements, or we do not believe in the social dialogue on the ground and we necessarily express a negative opinion on this dynamic. Conventional activity is dynamic in TPEs and SMEs. Wage savings remains its first reason, with 34,000 agreements concluded in 2018, a level that is growing. In addition, nearly 4700 agreements were signed in enterprises with fewer than fifty employees, including some 1500 in enterprises with fewer than ten employees. Finally, 2600 such agreements were ratified by referendum in 2018. The pace is even stronger in 2019, since in the first nine months, 7800 agreements were signed in companies with fewer than fifty employees, including 2700 by referendum. The new practice of EPTs and SMEs signing and ratifying agreements by referendum is therefore on the rise. In addition to working time, the theme they most often address is the exceptional purchasing power premium. Labour orders therefore provide employees of companies with less than fifty employees with real access to bargaining, as we wanted. And again, we're only at the beginning of the movement. With regard to the new grounds for negotiation at the branch level – CDD, acting and construction contracts – nineteen branches have taken up these issues and have concluded agreements establishing the CDI of construction sites, sixteen agreements providing for provisions relating to the CDD or the interim, and these branches cover more than 3 million employees. Finally, nine agreements deal with the worksite CDI – i.e. 2 million employees concerned – by adapting the contract to the trades, sectors and working environments, while providing for staff compensation in terms of training and remuneration. In metallurgy, the CDI at the site thus gives the right to a salary increase of more than 10%. Telework also opens up new opportunities, and the number of agreements devoted to telework is increasing. Many of you have emphasized the qualitative assessment of the deployment of work orders. The SSC has established occupational health as one of the strategic directions of the company. Previously, this subject was entrusted to a commission made up of persons not elected but simply appointed, sometimes disconnected from the works council. Today, health is being discussed at strategic level, between the head of the company and the trade union representatives, as in all countries where social dialogue is highly structured – I am thinking of the Nordic countries or Germany. This is a unique opportunity to strengthen the link between economic orientations, organisation and health at work, which we can agree are closely linked. The SSC fully takes over the responsibilities of the CHSCT, and can draw on the technical expertise of the Committee on Health, Safety and Working Conditions. I would like to reassure you, Mr. Cherpion: the members of the SSC have a comprehensive mission covering all subjects, including health and safety, and therefore have the full right to be trained in these areas. Also qualitatively, a team from the University of Montpellier reviewed 450 SSC agreements and drew the following conclusions: a quarter provide for the presence of community representatives – not mandatory, but deemed useful and necessary by both parties – and 56% provide for the establishment of a health, safety and working conditions commission, of which almost 30% are in companies with less than 300 employees who are not obliged to do so. I would also like to remind Mr Dharréville that all companies and establishments classified as Seveso, like all sectors at risk, have an obligation to set up such a commission. In addition, one quarter of the SSC agreements provide for the appointment of community representatives and assign them hours of delegation. Discussions on the establishment of an SSC often focus on the role of alternates and the means given to the proceeding. Recall that the minimum number of legal hours has not been changed, since the decree recognized the full minimum hours of previous commissions. Nevertheless – and some of you have rightly stressed this – the parties are aware of the need to professionalise the actors in the social dialogue and to value the paths of trade union representation. In this regard, the law guarantees means, whether they are enhanced training for staff representatives or certification of their skills, which we have created. However, much remains to be done to enhance the skills of staff representatives. Innovative experiments and agreements explore these avenues: for example, Matmut intends to create a school of social dialogue within it, allowing elected officials to engage in an official system of recognition of their skills. To this will be added a competence repository developed with the University Paris-Dauphine. We must encourage such initiatives. With regard to penitibility, in no case did we consider that the four criteria cited by several of you – painful postures, heavy loads, mechanical vibrations, exposure to chemicals – did not reflect penitence. On the other hand, we found that they could not be measured by a daily timing for each employee, thereby depriving them of recognition of their penitibility. That is why we have transformed these criteria into a right to early retirement, linked to a 10% recognition of incapacity. As part of the dialogue on the sustainability that we opened yesterday with the social partners, we will also consider ways to strengthen the mobilisation of the branches. I am surprised, however, that you do not recognize that, thanks to this provision on the 10% incapacity rate, employees have already been able to retire two years earlier, whereas in the previous system this could not have been possible before 2033. For some, this is a clear step forward. You also addressed the issue of the compensation scale for dismissal without real and serious cause. The continuing decrease in the number of litigations at the labour councils – 10% less between 2017 and 2018 – shows that there are more mediations and less conflict. In the end, it is faster compensation for the employee and legal security for both the employee and the company. As you have indicated, a number of labour councils have refused to apply the new scale, although the Council of State and the Constitutional Council have validated it. The Court of Cassation was referred to the Court by two boards of labour. It delivered its opinion on 17 July 2019 and found, on the one hand, that the new scale was in conformity with Convention No 158 of the International Labour Organisation, on the other hand, that the European Social Charter had no effect in a dispute between an employer and an employee. Since then, the three courts of appeal that have ruled – Reims, Paris and Chambéry – have rendered judgments in accordance with the opinion of the Court of Cassation. In summary, the implementation of SSCs is taking place in an active and positive manner. Conventional dynamics are progressing, particularly in SMEs. Efforts still need to be made to support the actors, to recognise the paths and to train the elected representatives. This cultural change, which is only at its very beginning, should be encouraged.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, it is twenty hours and I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the decisions taken by the Conference of Presidents, we will extend the sitting until the end of this debate. So we come to the questions. I would remind you that the duration of these, like that of the replies, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. I would point out that I will be much stricter in terms of speaking time than I have been so far. Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u289	In addition to the reduction in the number of staff representatives, applicable in the absence of agreement, two features of the SSC change the proximity link between staff representatives and employees of the company as it existed with staff delegates, the works council and the committee on hygiene, safety and working conditions: on the one hand, the arrangements for defining the boundaries of separate establishments, and on the other hand, the possibility of appointing community representatives. A risk of excessive centralisation of the SSC appears, in particular when the boundaries of the separate establishments selected are wider than those previously used, when no agreement has been reached on the establishment of community representatives, or when the latter have insufficient resources in relation to their prerogatives. The bias of orders to leave collective bargaining to decide whether or not to include community representatives, as well as, where appropriate, to define the scope of their prerogatives and the means available to them, is particularly contested by trade unions. In the event of a failure to negotiate, the presence of local representatives is de facto excluded, whereas it is often considered essential to maintain employee expression relays as close to the field as possible in companies with several sites. When negotiations are successful, few are satisfied with the means given to community representatives. Under the Labour Code, these representatives are not necessarily members of the SSC. Therefore, the volume of delegation hours and their prerogatives depend directly on negotiation. However, the absence of instructions for use and of supplementary provisions all too often leads to minimalist negotiations and the means granted are insufficient in relation to the prerogatives entrusted to them. A number of trade unions deplored the fact that, apart from a reference to health, safety and working conditions, the Ordinance did not define in article L. 2313-7 of the Labour Code the tasks of community representatives. Thus, the agreements that reach the unions would tend to make proximity representatives more "n+1" integrated into the company hierarchy rather than real staff representatives accountable to the SSC or commissions. In short, the relaxation of the criteria for defining separate establishments and the indetermining legal framework applicable to community representatives lead to an excessive centralisation of the social dialogue in multi-entrepreneurial enterprises, which could lead to a lack of central awareness of the problems encountered on the ground. How, Madam Minister, do you intend to remedy this further weakening of the social dialogue produced by your reform?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u290	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u291	Mr Vallaud, we disagree on the following point: while you are advocating centralisation through a labour code which would describe in detail what companies must do, whatever their size and context, we have chosen, within the framework of these orders, to give greater freedom of negotiation to the company and to the representatives of the staff with regard to the scope, means, organisation of social dialogue and the setting up of local representatives. While a quarter of the agreements provide for the establishment of community representatives, it should be noted that in many cases, like many SMEs and TPEs have introduced SSCs, the concepts of enterprise and establishment are confused. It is only in large companies that the establishment of community representatives makes sense. For my part, I believe that social dialogue must be trusted. Agreements are concluded within the company, and if they provide for the establishment of community representatives, the social partners see the need for them; otherwise, there are other forms of relationship between union delegates and staff. The results should be evaluated not in quantitative terms, but by examining the dynamics involved. However, it seems to me that the signals are rather positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u292	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u293	During the November 2017 review of the bill ratifying labour orders, my colleagues Francis Vercamer, Charles de Courson and Agnès Firmin Le Bodo had allowed an amendment to introduce an end-of-care medical examination for some workers. The aim was to take into account the specific situation of workers benefiting from, or benefiting from, the enhanced individual monitoring system during their professional careers. This applies to employees exposed to certain risks to their health or safety, including exposures to asbestos, ionizing radiation, lead or carcinogens. The law now provides that these employees are examined by the occupational doctor during a medical examination prior to their retirement, which allows for traceability and an inventory of exposures to one or more occupational risk factors. The aim is to establish, in case of need and in liaison with the attending physician, supervision beyond the period of professional activity. Based on the expertise of the occupational doctor, this measure avoids the loss of end-of-career information and improves the monitoring of the employee's situation. It is therefore a real and concrete step forward in the prevention of diseases related to occupational exposures. This amendment left it to the Council of State to specify by decree the manner of implementation. However, the time frame for the implementation of the Act, available on Legislation, indicates that the publication of the Order is "anticipated at the end of September 2018". This represents a delay of almost a year and a half! Could you, Madam Minister, provide us with the reasons for this delay and provide us with further information on the forthcoming publication of this Order?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u294	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u295	First of all, Mr President, I confirm that we found this amendment to be welcome and that it was a good idea. It was adopted. What has happened is that in the meantime the social partners have engaged in discussions on health at work. These are very soon to be the subject of a guidance document which has been discussed at length and which must be subject to inter-branch negotiations. That is why we preferred not to issue a decree before and in isolation. Of course, this will cause some delay, but I believe that it will also give more strength to what will result from the negotiations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u296	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u297	For the Libertés et territoires group, social democracy and social dialogue are powerful levers to respond to key and global challenges; I am thinking of the fight against precariousness, the protection of employees, the securing of their career paths, the improvement of the competitiveness of our companies and the anticipation of profound economic, social, technological and ecological changes. The work of the Work Orders Evaluation Committee, and in particular the recent study on the appropriation and implementation of these orders, shows that difficulties remain. I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, in particular, about the establishment of the Social and Economic Committee, which merges all the institutions representing staff. This simplification should allow for a more flexible and effective social dialogue. However, we must ensure that this dialogue does not lose in quality or proximity. However, the study carried out with enterprises shows that the shift to a single body reinforces a trend towards concentration and centralisation. This trend raises two questions. First, it seems to us important to preserve a social dialogue of proximity, which may seem contradictory to the concentration of bodies and the reduction of their resources. Secondly, this leads to an expansion of the representation of elected staff members, who are facing ever more intense and complex missions without always being prepared for them. So, Madam Minister, my question will be twofold. First, will the Government take further steps to maintain community-based social dialogue, including by specifying the number, means and functions of community representatives provided for in the ordinances? Secondly, should we not rethink overall and strengthen the training of elected staff, whose scope of action is now greater?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u298	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u299	First, there is nothing to say today that there is a centralization. There is no evidence to that effect. I repeat: 25% of the agreements provide for community representatives, whereas this is not mandatory: it is the companies and the trade unions that agree. However, a large part of the enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises located on a single site: for them, the question does not arise. This means that an extremely large proportion of the companies concerned have decided to set up community representatives. On the other hand, I repeat, there are two very different philosophies: either we trust social dialogue, or we in this House think that we know better than the trade unions and the company what is good for them. As far as I am concerned, I admit that I register falsely against this latter assertion; I am in favour of decentralization, including – and above all – social dialogue. As for the formation of elected officials, you are right, this is an important issue. That is why we have planned actions in this area. This is the first time a piece of legislation has recognized its importance. The Ministry, in liaison with the social partners, has, of course, provided for certification of the competences of staff representatives and trade union representatives. I think it is very important to say that staff representatives develop skills; This will allow them to be recognized in other frameworks beyond their mandate. This is a real step forward, as France was lagging behind in training and recognition of trade union career paths; But we are filling it up.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u300	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u301	The adoption of labour orders in 2017 left little room for parliamentary interventions, which we had denounced at the time. Two years later, what can we do about it? Nothing has really changed. Social mobilizations have only increased. Is this not the demonstration that the "deep renovation of the social model" you were hoping for has turned into something similar to the liquidation of any form of dialogue? For thirty-five days, tens of thousands of French people, supported by a majority of the population – that is still the case – have been on strike, without you paying any real attention to them, except to wait for them to make a truce or to stop the strike, as you continue to demand. As part of your pension reform, you now have the audacity to speak of "penibility". On the occasion of a consultation in October 2019, President Emmanuel Macron considered that penitibility was a bad term because it gave the feeling that work would be painful. Yes! Alas, it is! In concrete terms, this disdain was reflected in the removal in 2017 of four out of ten criteria for work-penability, to the detriment of nearly 300,000 employees. It is this contempt that is painful for us. According to the studies of the health insurance, it is almost ten employees who die of an accident at work every week, often linked to the dangers faced by employees. We warned you, however, of the devastating nature of these ordinances. These working trades affect a total of 8 million of our fellow citizens. The consequence is known, and it is terrible: the life expectancy of those concerned is severely reduced. For a worker, penitibility translates into a life expectancy of at least six years – at least – lower than that of an executive. The same applies to many other professions. Minister, while the issue of penitibility is again on the table, are you finally going to reinstate the criteria that were removed in 2017?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u302	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u303	Mr President, you say that the record of the orders is negative or that nothing has changed. If you refer to me, when I looked at the enabling bill, I had announced that a cultural change was not taking place in one or two years, but it would take years for it to produce all of its effects. On the other hand, a dynamic is set in motion, with more than 50000 SSCs created, a conventional practice that is developing, especially in SMEs, and much less fear of hiring. With regard to penitibility, which is a very important issue, first of all, I would point out that we have not removed criteria, but that we have decided not to credit them on the C3P – the personal account for preventing penitibility, which has become the professional account for prevention, the C2P – to measure them differently: it is a doctor who must say whether there is a disability related to these risks; and if a 10% disability rate is found, then automatically, the person retires two years earlier. Thousands of people already benefit from this provision, while they would never have retired earlier if the old scheme had been retained. On the other hand, there are still issues that are not exhausted, such as the risks associated with toxic chemicals, which are delayed and poorly measurable. Professor Frimat, to whom we asked for a report two years ago, gave it to us and the subject is one of those on which we want to move with the social partners. Yes, there is still some progress to be made with regard to penitibility. But we will not go back, we will not restore a formal, inapplicable right. What interests me is to advance real rights. We agreed yesterday with the social partners, in the framework of the consultation launched with the Prime Minister and Laurent Pietraszewski on the reform of pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u304	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u305	Minister, I would like to address the issue of the negative consequences of the Labour Law Orders on Health and Prevention Policies. Last month the trial of France Télécom was held: it would never have taken place had your orders been in force...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u306	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u307	... since the procedure was initiated by the CHSCT. I recall that nineteen suicides were recognised as directly related to France Télécom's managerial practices. By removing the local elected representatives of the staff delegates, you have taken away from the employees an indispensable resource so that they can have a say in their working conditions. You also deleted the word "penitibility" from the title of the personal prevention account. It is more than symbolic: this illustrates the removal of four criteria of penitibility which opened up to employees the possibility of early retirement, the carrying of heavy loads, painful postures, mechanical vibrations and chemical risks, which have not disappeared from their daily work. One can establish a relationship between your prescriptions and the 2018 health insurance figures: accidents at work and occupational diseases are rising by 3% and 2.1%, respectively, while stoppages of illness continue to rise every year. Madam Minister, when are you going to accept the union's request to restore the CHSCT, whose example of France Télécom, among other things, demonstrates its usefulness? When are you going to reintroduce the four penitibility criteria removed in 2017? How do you intend to improve the consideration of penitibility and health at work?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u308	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u309	Mr President, I think this is an involuntary mistake, but what you say about the CHSCT is, I'm sorry, completely wrong. All of the CHSCT's missions were assigned to the SSC by the Orders. Therefore, any SSC can deal with an occupational health issue. With regard to France Télécom, I would remind you that any company with more than 300 employees is obliged to have a health, safety and working conditions committee within its SSC. And even in the absence of such a commission, the SSC is sovereign in this area. So your example is wrong. The change in the name of the personal prevention account was intended to highlight the weak point on which we need to move forward: prevention. Today, in France, one tends to think that penitibility is only a matter of reparation, but true social justice lies in preventing penitence, in not reaching retirement age with deteriorated health, which will degrade the quality of the rest of your life! Prevention, the possibility of reconverting in time, and ultimately reparation, are the three components of this social justice that we are going to discuss with the social partners. They also share our observation: yesterday, all trade unions and employers' organisations declared prevention to be our priority. It is also from this perspective that the prevention of accidents at work is one of the priorities of the labour inspectorate: nothing should be allowed to pass in this area. These accidents are too numerous in France, and the situation has not improved in the last ten years. Now that the appropriate bodies are in place, now that this subject is being taken up at the strategic level of the ESCs, now that an interprofessional negotiation on health and safety at work is under way, because the social partners have indicated to us their wish to address this subject, we will be able to make progress on preventing penitibility. Again, we will not go back to criteria that are not measurable. An artisan, a farmer will not be behind his employee to determine how many hours a day he raises charges, and of what weight. This is a purely formal view of law, disconnected from the reality of the field. It was better to recognize disability! But we will continue to work on these issues, and above all extend the consideration of penitibility to the public sector, where it is not currently recognized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u310	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u311	Minister, the Labour Law Orders of September 2017 have probably carried out one of the most important reforms to the Labour Code in recent years. That is to be welcomed. This includes the creation of a single staff representative body, the Social and Economic Committee. It merges staff delegates - DP -, the works council - EC - and the health, safety and working conditions committee. It replaces, where it existed, the single delegation of staff - DUP. I'll stick to the acronyms. The September 2017 order to simplify social dialogue in the company completed a merger process initiated in 1993. The SSC, with a civil personality, a budget, fully exercises the prerogatives previously vested in the RFPs, the EC and the CHSCT. It shall deliver an opinion; it shall be consulted in place of the former staff representative bodies. The law required the creation of a CES in all enterprises with at least 11 employees by 1 January 2020. According to your information, 53700 SSCs were established, of which 49% were in small businesses. Could you please detail these numbers? Furthermore, I am particularly sensitive to the respect of the social partners, to the establishment of genuine dialogue and to the improvement of working conditions. That is why I would like to conclude this speech with a set of qualitative questions: have the new staff representative bodies launched dynamics, modernised practices? Have women and men changed? Do leaders recognize the value of the trade union and elected career? Do employees adopt these new bodies, commit themselves to these useful and demanding mandates?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u312	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u313	Madam Member, you are asking the essential question, the question of the scope of cultural change. Today, the conditions for this change are in place. There are more than 50,000 SSCs, to which 10,000 or 20,000 others will be added in a few weeks, once all agreements are registered. There is a start to conventional dynamics. Cultural change is beginning to emerge in TPEs and SMEs, where there are many more agreements: SSCs are created where there was nothing. This change is not widespread, but the momentum has begun, even in small businesses. On 28 June, at the Ministry of Labour, we organized the first edition of the success stories of the social dialogue, which brought together about 100 participants. Companies delegated a management or human resources representative and one or more union representatives to speak about the agreements they entered into. We have seen very innovative ones. You will tell me that all this is more qualitative than quantitative: today, we do not know how to evaluate in quantity this evolution in quality. These examples are not yet massive, as the SSCs had to be created first. The work of these first two years has been to calibrate these bodies according to trades, territories, needs and cultures of enterprise. Proximity representatives, for example, will not be positioned in the same way depending on whether the company is very centralised or very decentralised. This field architecture work has now been completed. We are at the pioneer stage: the dynamics are there, the tools are there; some have seized it and have entered into innovative agreements; for others, we will accompany the movement so that in the coming years there will emerge a constructive, demanding dialogue, a factor both in social progress and in the performance of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u314	Mrs Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u315	Minister, the orders we were discussing today were the first step in renovating our social model. Two years after they come into force, we can make a milestone. In concrete terms, I would like to talk to you about the manner in which these ordinances were received in the territory that I represent and that is familiar to you, the North Isle. Because of its strategic position, it has been experiencing economic and demographic growth for years, which reflects its dynamism. The unemployment rate is below 7%, compared with 8.5% in France. In North Isère, there are more jobs to be filled than job seekers, yet unemployment persists! The ordinances have already made it possible to provide many answers to this paradox, which causes considerable frustration, both among employers and among the unemployed. The GICOB, the employers' group of Nord-Isère, which brings together many SMEs from all sectors of activity, would like to thank you, on behalf of the companies of Nord-Isère, for these ordinances and their implementation. They had the ambition of reviving employment and reducing the unemployment rate on a sustainable basis: they kept their promises. By widening the scope of the primacy of the enterprise agreement over the branch agreement, and above all by allowing SMEs without trade union delegates to negotiate business agreements through the representatives of the SSC, they have strengthened social dialogue as close as possible to the ground. On this basis, however, the GICOB wishes to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to a difficulty encountered by companies in their day-to-day operations. The SSC absorbed all of the former staff representative bodies: DP, CE and CHSCT. However, since the obligations of companies with fewer than 50 employees are not the same as those of larger companies, the term "ESC" actually covers two different realities. As a result, when it comes to SSC obligations, companies never know if they are involved. Do you think that we can put an end to this confusion and the insecurity it creates in our businesses?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u316	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u317	Through these orders, we wanted to allow the emergence of social dialogue within small businesses. It is obvious that having 11 or 100,000 employees does not entail the same requirements. For example, the referendum as a method of decision-making concerns very small companies: to enlarge the line, when there are ten people around the table, one can reach an agreement without resorting to letters with acknowledgment of receipt! We have therefore chosen to give a unique name to a progressive reality, in order to avoid creating additional thresholds. Small business is expected to grow; the aim of a TPE is to become an SME, then an ETI, or even more. There is therefore a need for a gradual appropriation of social dialogue. In the absence of trade union delegates, an elected staff member is used... There is a gradation of solutions that would obviously not be allowed to large companies, where elections could not be without trade union organisations. There were two options: threshold effects, separate worlds, or learning social dialogue, and we chose to allow this progressivity. Finally, perhaps it is not wrong for companies with 45 employees to engage with others with 60 employees: they will see that they do not have to be afraid, that they can grow up, that they can exceed the 50 employees threshold, and that they will have a social dialogue that also helps their economic performance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u318	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u319	Among the ordinances of the Labour Law, one set out an artificial framework for labour compensation. Your objectives, served by a well-oiled communication, were to simplify the procedure, to make it more readable, and to provide legal certainty for small businesses. Unfortunately, two years later, the record is at least mixed, if not very negative, sometimes in contrast to the objectives set. You have accomplished the feat of discontenting both companies and employees. Four issues are of particular concern and concern. The first is the establishment of a two-tiered labour justice system, to the detriment of the most modest employees. One of the most important aspects of this reform in particular is the fact that one of the actors in the field, a magistrate, is that it is leading to the setting up of a judicial dispute, leaving only the dispute that has a high potential for gain, that of high-paid executives, who can pay a lawyer and hold fourteen months. The other employees fall back on minimum amicable agreements, in the best of cases. This does not improve social dialogue. Second, there are differences in practice between jurisdictions; Some judges are even free of the scale, which they consider to be contrary to the International Labour Organisation Convention or the European Social Charter. The application of your orders thus again leads to a two-speed system, this time depending on the place of residence, which is unfair and unequal. Thirdly, the deadlines have not been reduced, since the prud'homal antennas have been closed in parallel, starting with the smallest or the most rural ones. But even in Paris, it is necessary to wait fifteen months for a judgment, fifteen months in case of separation and fifteen more months in case of appeal, i.e. almost four years before the final decision. Fourthly, and this is probably the worst effect of your orders for employees and businesses, the ceiling applies only to dismissals without real or serious cause, not to cases of discrimination or harassment. As a result, we witnessed the explosion of these files, which are being used to circumvent the scales. Here I quote an actor: "As a result of this slippage, there is no longer predictability and security, as envisaged in the marketing of this reform. » Thus, by depriving certain employees of recourse, by creating tensions in companies and by subjecting their managers to new and increased legal uncertainty, you have missed your target. What do you intend to do, Madam Minister, to correct these mistakes?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u320	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u321	Mr Di Filippo, I am very surprised to hear that the Republican Group does not consider the legal security of companies and employees to be an important objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u322	What we said was that she wasn't at the meeting: the goal is missed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u323	This is an important goal for us, and I assure you that the situation has become quite different from before. It may not be a coincidence that the litigation has decreased by 10%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u324	Don't make me say what I didn't say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u325	I had misunderstood then, and it is good to have checked your interpretation. In any case, 10% less litigation is already positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u326	It's been falling for years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u327	Secondly, some of the things you said are wrong: all allowances are regulated by the scale, including those of managers. There is therefore no possibility of inflation. Thirdly, there is now much less conflict and more mediation. I expected the Republicans to consider mediation as better for the company and for the employee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u328	It's levelling down!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u329	Fourthly, it was precisely because there was total uncertainty that the deadlines were very long. Now that people have gone to mediation, they are no longer entering your statistics. Admittedly, the working time is still long, but it is much shorter for those who do not go to litigation, which encourages the use of mediation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u330	The remaining procedures are the most complex.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u331	Fifthly, legal insecurity has been reduced. You mentioned the case of a few judges with different interpretations, but the Court of Cassation ruled on 17 July and since then the judgments have been aligned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u332	Not everywhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u333	The reason why we excluded harassment from the scale is that it is not possible to judge in the same way cases of violation of the integrity of the person – and not only of his or her employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u334	That was not the point of my remark: I was saying there was a circumvention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u335	I would add, for those who believe that they will gain more by resorting to harassment litigation, that there is a need for evidence. Many of those who participated in this first movement, advised by lawyers who saw it as a pecuniary interest, will be dismissed because we cannot go to court and get anything, on any grounds, without proof. Unlike you, I always have echoes from companies that say thank you, today as two years ago, because it is thanks to this better legal security that they are no longer afraid to hire!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u336	They don't say that anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u337	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u338	The work orders signed in September 2017 have made a big contribution to telework; It was an opportunity. Indeed, if telework had been included in the Labour Code since 2012, it did not yet have a clear and precise definition. We are pleased that, thanks to these ordinances, which have made the framework clearer, it is now possible to make effective use of telework. Defining it has made it possible to change the law, and above all to recognize the reality of the labour market and the behaviour of families. Orders have simplified procedures, which is a real step forward for our society. There is no longer a need to include telework in collective agreements: every employee can apply to benefit from it by sending a simple e-mail, which represents a real social advance, and it is now up to the employer to justify his refusal. To cite other developments, occupational accidents occurring during telework are now recognised as such and access to training and trade union involvement is now guaranteed, including for telework workers. These are concrete advances that I wanted to highlight, if not recall, at this monitoring session. Minister, I am asking the question of progress. It is known that the use of telework has grown significantly – it affects about 700000 more employees, which is a real success, and 17 % of employees in total – but a significant gap remains with other countries. Minister, it is because I believe in the ability of teleworking to meet the basic needs of our society and the way of living of families that I ask you the question: have the government's objectives been achieved and, if not, how can we support the development of teleworking in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u339	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u340	Thank you for your question, Mrs. El Haïry. The advancement of social law in ordinances is indeed a very strong aspiration. There is now much more self-employment, while the time spent in transport is lost both for work and for personal life. Teleworking also allows some occupations to concentrate better, and allows some flexibility in time arrangements. More generally, it encourages new forms of management by reducing the logic of control and presentationism of traditional hierarchies, thus moving managerial practices more adapted to the past than to the future. It is particularly consistent with the aspirations of young people, who no longer want a prescriptive management that is too precise. It is estimated that 17% of employees benefit from telework through agreements. Paradoxically, the orders made follow-up more difficult by opening up the possibility of individual agreements, in addition to the company and branch agreements that we will continue to account for. Except for ordering an investigation, which is possible, we will never have the exact figures and will have to content ourselves with testimonials! Another interesting element is the development of shared workspaces. It is not because one is working alone on a task that loneliness is not a problem and it is sometimes important to have a place of work, especially in rural areas, for those who come to join their spouses. Where a coworking space exists, at the initiative of the companies or the municipality, an employee will be able to find an official, a craftsman and a job seeker... This creates new working collectives, not hierarchical but horizontal and territorial, that draw the work of tomorrow. This question will be very interesting to follow and, I believe, quite inspiring.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u341	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-08-O1117.u342	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-two o'clock: Questions on the situation in EHPAD. The meeting is adjourned.
