ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law extending the state of health emergency and supplementing its provisions (No 2908). I would remind you that in this period of health crisis, 75 Members can now meet in the Chamber, according to a distribution proportional to the size of the groups. This number will rise to 150 next week. Moreover, the sanitary rules you know naturally continue to prevail: microphones are cleaned during the session, speakers being asked not to put their hands on the microphones, and to use different microphones; Health distances must be respected, entrances and exits must be staggered. Finally, speakers are asked to speak from their bench, not from the rostrum. Mrs Marie Guévenoux, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u2	The Joint Joint Committee on the draft law extending the state of health emergency met this morning. It succeeded, for a simple reason: in the circumstances faced by the French, it was not possible for a moment that it could fail. During the week, we had built the conditions for consensus between the assemblies, with the assistance of the Government. The Senate made significant changes to the original text; Most of them were justified and welcome, and were endorsed by the National Assembly. We have made useful additions to the Senate text, and we have finally removed few provisions, which honourable senators have readily admitted. Thus, at the opening of the Joint Joint Committee, differences were rare, albeit significant. I thank everyone for their active participation, for their constructive opposition and for their effective presidency. These are the subjects that separated us, and for each of them the compromise that we reached. In Article 1, the National Assembly had adopted the deadline of 10 July proposed by the Senate; As for the latter, he finally agreed with our proposal to put an end to the regime derogating from pre-trial detention. The last issue – which has been very busy with us in our respective chambers – to be resolved was responsibility for unintentional offences. We have worked until the last moment with the Senate to find an editorial capacity to reconcile our two assemblies; I am pleased that our efforts have been fruitful. The proposed wording allows, without creating a new liability regime or alleviating the responsibilities of anyone, to take into account the particular conditions associated with the health crisis. With regard to emergency measures, the drafting of the National Assembly has prevailed almost entirely. We have simply strengthened the protection of victims of domestic violence, integrating the public prosecutor and precautionary precautionary measures into our system. Everyone will be happy about it. In article 5, concerning the agents who enforce the state of emergency, the two assemblies will have made a sacrifice: the Senate agreed to include the reservists of police and gendarmerie, the National Assembly renounced the extension to the reception agents of the stations. It's a good compromise. In Article 6, we were able to measure the important contributions made by the parliamentary shuttle, in particular with regard to the monitoring of the information systems to be used, and guarantees for the persons concerned. As such, we have provided an additional guarantee in the Joint Joint Committee, since we have limited the retention of data in information systems to three months. Finally, with regard to the overseas countries, the Senate was reluctant to consider a measure adapted to local specificities, which was therefore different from the ordinary law. Exchanges have led him to accept an adjusted rule, which we have, however, relaxed in order to bring it as close as possible to the provisions of ordinary law. This is the second time that I have presented to you the conclusions of a joint joint committee convened because of the epidemic that is mourning our country. I hope that this will also be the last one, and that on 10 July we will be able to get out of the state of health emergency. It is not the light heart that we temporarily restrict public freedoms, but with the awareness of our responsibilities in the face of the health crisis that strikes us. Secretary of State, we trust the Government to do everything necessary to overcome this ordeal. By the law of 23 March, we have given you the means of effective containment; by the law that we are voting today, and that the Senate has just passed, we are giving you the means of a successful deconfination. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The challenge of May 11 is considerable. You retain the confidence of the National Assembly to raise it. The legal instruments we give you bear witness to this. We are convinced that the return to normal life will be long and difficult; We are aware that it will take time to catch up with the economic and other consequences of the crisis. But we do not doubt that we will succeed, with confidence and determination, with our fellow citizens and the unwavering commitment of all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u3	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u4	The Government welcomes the fact that, after demanding debates, the Assembly and the Senate have reached agreement on a balanced text, which ensures the effectiveness of the fight against the virus in accordance with the principles to which we are all very committed. This text gives us just and effective instruments; It makes it possible to consider in a responsible way the deconfinition which will begin in two days, and which must in no case be the time for a decrease of vigilance. This debate, which is still taking place today under special conditions, is important in the life of this Assembly; I want to pay tribute to the colossal work that has been done by the parliamentarians of both assemblies, in often difficult conditions, on these benches or from home. I also thank the entire staff of the National Assembly, which allows us to debate under the best conditions. I spoke of a requirement; You have not missed it in order to consolidate this text, to enrich it, to ensure that the measures taken remain exceptional. In recent weeks, parliamentarians have proved how intangible this principle is: in calm weather as in the storm, democracy remains standing. You have also supplemented the text with important measures, specifying the modalities for returning to the ordinary law of pre-trial detention; This subject has been the subject of high quality work between parliamentarians and the Chancellery. You have allowed the extension of the winter truce until July 10th. Amendments from all the benches have been adopted, proof that beyond differences of opinion and obviously legitimate oppositions, we know how to grant our violins on the essential, that is, on the health of the French and the support for the continuity of the nation. The text extending the state of health emergency is obviously not a blank text; It has never been said that this is the case, and the Government is not only fully aware of it, but also knows how demanding you will be. Each of the articles, to the nearest point, was weighed, debated, amended; However, we had to talk about public freedoms. Everyone measures the scale and intensity of the crisis we are facing; the question no longer arises as to whether or not the criterion of gravity is fulfilled, as the verdict is without appeal. The entire nation is engaged in a new, unprecedented struggle against a deadly threat, which has already struck many of our fellow citizens, to whom we address a particular thought. The French have lived for almost eight weeks what none of our contemporaries had known: confinement as the only way to stop the spread of a virus, and to enable our health system to cope with the epidemic. This is an unprecedented test that we must overcome together today; As in the general discussion this Thursday, let me have a thought for the millions of children in our country, for whom time is still too long, but also for their parents, who have been able to live differently with them in recent weeks. I am also thinking of all those for whom this moment was particularly challenging, because they were far from their loved ones, far from their daily landmarks. The health emergency requires a firm and rapid response. The agreement in the Joint Joint Committee allows us to do so. Our legal framework is now adapted and secure. We had to find a proportionate answer, but not at any price or under any conditions; We know that, and this is the purpose of this text, the compromise between the National Assembly and the Senate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] This text is not a blank cheque and the Government will return to the national representation whenever circumstances require it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u5	I call Mrs Braun-Pivet, chairman of the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u6	In the words of Jean Jaurès, "men who trust man know... that it is worth... to act, that human effort towards clarity and law is never lost." Everyone has made efforts to reach the text that is presented to you by the rapporteur: it is that of the Joint Joint Committee, and it is therefore not a text like the others. The CMP seems to be devolved to discretion; Yet it is the most revealing organ of the functioning of bicameralism. It is the place where Parliament excels in seeking what brings together rather than what disunites. The CMP in question was no exception: it lasted more than four hours, as before, devoted to the first emergency law. It was punctuated with suspensions, moments of doubt; She could have failed. But we did succeed, because the sense of compromise prevailed. Together with our fellow senators, we have been able to face the epidemic together, guided by the sole compass of the interest of our fellow citizens. This is the strength of our Parliament: to be both capable of consensus, a force of proposal and a guarantor of the security and freedoms of everyone. Whatever the circumstances, the French can count on their Parliament. This work that we have been able to carry out, on all benches, despite forced delays, is the most beautiful demonstration of the strength of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u7	In essence, we have extended the state of emergency until July 10, in order to give us the means to get out of this ordeal. In order to protect the freedoms and rights of the defence, we unanimously wanted to return to the common law of pre-trial detention from next Monday with the necessary modulations for the proper functioning of the courts. We have allowed the creation of health teams to identify cases of contamination and break transmission chains, strictly framing the tools at their disposal and reaffirming the role of CNIL which the Law Commission has heard twice in the last few weeks. On all these points, Parliament has played its role as guarantor by ensuring the necessary balance between the health security of the French and respect for public freedoms. Finally, on the criminal responsibility of decision-makers, which was the most difficult issue, we shared with senators the same objective: to respond to the concern and particular situation of many elected officials and employers, all those who will have to make decisions or apply them in a formidable epidemiological context. We had to live up to that expectation. But we did not want to mitigate or exempt decision-makers from their responsibility. Nor did we want to distinguish, in criminal matters, between the persons concerned, because what matters is not the fault, but the fault we are talking about. We have sought a path, first in the National Assembly, with the members of the MODEM Group with whom we have tabled identical amendments. We have continued to look for it in the Joint Joint Committee, and we have found it: when there is a shared will, we can overcome many obstacles! As we move gradually out of confinement, our Parliament must now, in order to retain all the strength that is its own and which the French we represent need, resume the full exercise of its constitutional tasks, beyond the mere urgency. We're ready for it. We're ready to control, we're ready to legislate, we're ready to evaluate. Our institutions, our citizens, need a strong Parliament, at the service of all; a peaceful democratic life, animated by the constructive and respectful spirit that characterizes our debates. I trust, more than ever, in our ability to be, always, up to this expectation. I will again borrow from Jaurès these concluding words: "Yes, the Republic is a great act of confidence and a great act of audacity! "
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u8	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u9	It is not an obvious thing to put forward a motion to reject a state of health emergency in advance, but we are doing so in full awareness of our responsibilities. The current state of emergency ran until 23 May, so there was no time to go further in the discussion and in the proper analysis of what remained to be done. We are not happy with the deconfining plan because it does not learn from what happened during confinement. But it's not for lack of warning. As early as 30 March, if you remember, the Members of the House of Representatives of La France, who were completely unsubstantiated, warned, in a gallery, that deconfining was a much more complex operation than confinement itself. We thought we had enough authority to tell you. Have we not asked you an incalculable number of times about France's refusal to implement the recommendation of the World Health Organization – to test, test and test again? The Prime Minister told us that this practice was useless while the Minister of Solidarity and Health eventually never answered our questions again. The scenario was the same for masks: they were useless, eventually they will be mandatory. We need to learn from what didn't work. I am not talking about this or that measure, but about the great principles that must govern action. First, planning. Not a metre forward was made in this area. This does not mean that measures have not been taken, but there is no reflection on how to intertwine them. Proof of this was given to us yesterday when the amendments tabled by our Corsican colleagues, Jean-Félix Acquaviva and Michel Castellani were rejected. It appeared that if health measures are taken – no one disputes it – their articulation with the economic rescue plan was not thought by anyone. Was it not a good opportunity to reach out to the unique community of Corsica once and for all to deal with this problem? In Île-de-France, where is planning? Perhaps you have already seen the images, but how can you ask both for the reopening of as many companies as possible and for the return of all employees for whom telework is not possible and not for the means of transport available. The proportion of means of transport in circulation will thus have been decided without regard to the number of passengers who need to borrow them, so that a terrible cohue has already begun on the docks. Do you think that the presence of agents to sort between travellers who should be there and those who should not, at the risk of these, will solve anything? I could give other examples, but I stick to this one. How can we get out of this crisis? By making people feel guilty. In this regard, the speech we hear in the media is unbearable – you have nothing to do with it, of course –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u10	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u11	In short, "if the microbe circulates, it's your fault." No, it's not their fault and we have to stop questioning them all the time. Second principle, requisition. When we asked him about the Luxfer company, which produces bottles to transport medial oxygen under the best technical conditions in Europe – this is the only factory to know how to do it – by ordering him to nationalise it – it would not cost a euro – Bruno Le Maire replied that he did not control the file. It should: Luxfer and Famar must be nationalized. What did you requisition? We'd like to know! It is not the requisition of the masks that we ask for; the companies that manufacture them have self-requested as well as some entrepreneurs in the textile industry have decided on their own to reorient their production. We would like the entire textile industry to be requisitioned so that we are able to do as well as Morocco, which produces five million masks a day, and exempted from doing belly dance on the tarmacs of Chinese airports, where, it seems, there is a dispute as to who will recover the stock. France is humiliated, while it has the means to do so without having to ask permission from anyone. Yes, it's humiliating to go ask others in such conditions. [["Ah" on several benches of the LaREM group]] What is missing, what is most annoying to us, is social measures. Of course, measures are taken, no one will say otherwise – that would not be true. You're enjoying yourself a little bit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u12	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u13	What is lacking in the call must be considered, which is lacking and will damage cohesion. Masks must be free of charge. Poor people account for what it's going to cost them. How will you do it tomorrow to find out if a mask is still usable or not – you don't know it. Masks must be free of charge and distributed by the public authorities. We have the means. Billions will be distributed in this country. We can give them to the people as a matter of priority. I appeal to your conscience about food distress. This one will not show itself; Like misery, it hides. In Cuba, doctors are sent from one house to another to see if people are sick. In France, we should be able to go from one building bar to another to see if people have been forgotten, if because they are disabled and cannot travel, they do not shop. We must go everywhere not to give up those who are hungry in our country today because it is a reality. The microbe distribution map overlaps the poverty map – it is now an established fact. The poorest departments and streets are the most affected in our country, especially when it comes to an entire island. How can we spare ourselves the shame of the lack of running water in Mayotte? How can people in some neighbourhoods be told to wash their hands when they do not have running water? No one's done anything. Similarly, in Guadeloupe, this has been going on for months. There must be a strong authority that breaks down, that requires doing things in such a way and not otherwise, and that all those who have to know must submit to it immediately, because national unity demands it. We must go to the rescue of the poorest among whom the microbe circulates more. Bank charges must be cancelled; more planning is needed; We have to suspend the rents. The minister responsible for housing, Julien Denormandie, announced the suspension of evictions until July – it is a good decision, but as long as to take one, as much as to take the best, i.e. the suspension of rents. Why should we limit ourselves to expulsions alone? Who is able today to reorganize his daily life under the conditions of confinement or hazardous deconfinity in which we will participate. I end with a final example, the 200 euros allocated to students. I'm sure there are many here who paid for their studies themselves as I did – I don't get a special glory. Then we lived through small jobs. You give 200 euros to young adults. But what do we do today with 200 euros? Nothing. Let us not comfort ourselves by thinking that we have done the right thing because we have not done it. There were people to admire the German system, which seemed beautiful to them. The Germans are more pragmatic than those who admire them. That is why they have decided to re-establish them. Why? Without playing the Cassandres or the birds of woe, I told you a second peak of the epidemic – I had the information of epidemiologists. This is what we see in Germany. Fear that the cohues on the docks and the return to school of the children under conditions that I consider questionable create so many new clusters for the future. [[Smile]] Therefore, we must exercise extreme health vigilance. That is why, although I am less confined than I look, I decided to recall that I will remain confined on May 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u14	That's good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u15	We must all scrupulously comply with the sanitary instructions given to us, even if the red and green map is absolutely absurd. When viewed closely, the only differences between the two areas relate to the date of re-establishment of colleges and the reopening of parks and gardens. Our vigilance does not mean that we accept the progress of the supervisory society in any way. I don't want to judge your intentions but I warn you: remember the EDVIGE file. In this country, technostructure, linked to large platforms and police structures, is absolutely hallucinated, blinded by technological illusion. They want to control everything, to know everything. Last December, you passed section 41 of the Health System Organization and Transformation Act, which makes it possible to make available artificial intelligence to cross-check health data, of course anonymously. But what guarantees do you have about anonymity? Do not let these people, the general controllers, in all areas, control the lives of citizens because we will never go back – you know as well as I do. I don't want this company where a drone orders me after my phone checked if I'm where I should be. This is not the world we want. Literature and poetry often make it possible to anticipate what will happen. I invite you to read Ira Levin's unbearable happiness. You will discover a perfect world in which everything is controlled, and your tastes are subject to authorization. Don't let this happen. Restrictions have been put in place. Thank you to those who have allowed it and who do not belong to the same opposition as us: we did not want it at all. Important work has been done. We had time to do better, in particular to learn from everything that did not work during confinement and that I thank you for an effect of solidarity that will not last as long, that is, that will stop from 12 May so many people on the docks fall ill because of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u16	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u17	I wanted to thank you, Mr. President Mélenchon, for I am going to go home tonight and announce to my two student daughters that I am reducing their monthly budget by 200 euros. I am not convinced that they are very satisfied with this; In which case I will send them to you and you will explain with them. More seriously, I have seen you denounce in this Chamber the reduction of the APL – personalized housing aid – of 5 euros for students. Now you explain that 200 euros is nothing. I don't understand your reasoning,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u18	I'll explain it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u19	...but here too, you can explain yourself to the students. You have presented us with your thought, which everyone knows is rich, through many paths: it is always a pleasure to listen to you using dialectics, but I will not be able to follow you and advise my colleagues to vote in favour of your motion, because this would be tantamount to denying the work done by all parliamentarians for a week. I would also like to pay tribute to them, whether they have sat in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or in the Chamber. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would also like to point out that this morning, on a joint committee with senators, we were able to find the best way to meet the aspirations of French and French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u20	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u21	The debates we have had for several days, for very many hours, especially during the Joint Joint Committee, which, as the Chairman of the Committee on Laws pointed out, lasted four hours, have put on the table major questions, which relate to our individual and collective freedoms. The issue of personal health data was, of course, at the heart of our concerns, but also the broader concerns of the duration of the state of emergency and the powers vested in each other. We have raised a number of questions and answers have been made. They are probably not perfect: the Constitutional Council will, moreover, decide, given that, we have been told, it will be seized. At this stage, therefore, it would seem to us totally inappropriate, when parliamentary debates have been able to prosper, to interrupt them and in this form. It would be, in a way, a denial of democracy. That does not mean, Mr. President Mélenchon, that some of your questions are bad or that they do not deserve to be asked. It is obvious, but the subject is not there, even though I am well aware that my answer will not satisfy you. There is room for political debate, as well as for a number of social or even societal issues, but probably not in this particular case of the extension of the state of emergency, even though other issues, relating to the opening of beaches or shops, which are more related to the management of the deconfination than to the state of emergency itself. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, as you have understood, the Republicans whom I represent this evening will not vote in favour of this motion so that we can continue the debate together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u22	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u23	It will not surprise you that the MODEM and related groups do not vote either on the motion to reject beforehand tabled by La France insoumée and its chairman. I was afraid for a moment not to recognize you, Mr. Mélenchon, because I recently read an article that told us that you were going to change your tactics and that you would prefer constructive opposition to the frontal opposition. But that's not what I felt when I listened to your speech. You have stated what I consider to be untruths, by sticking to the Government or the deputies of the majority and saying that, overall, we have done nothing. You've only recognized little progress. I would point out to you, however, that France is one of the countries of Europe that has done the most to support its population, if not the one that has done the most: whether it is entrepreneurs or employees, four out of five French citizens benefit from the provisions introduced by the State since the first emergency health law was passed. We were therefore meeting to discuss the extension of this law. During the discussions, many questions were asked, to which everyone tried to answer as best he could. You have rightly questioned the House and the Government on many points; It is the very nature of the democratic debate and should continue to live in this way. Many answers have been given, so admit that all the work that has been done by the Senate and this assembly, as well as by the Joint Joint Committee for four hours – congratulations to those who participated in it and who have managed to find an agreement that allows us to vote for this extension – deserves to be sanctioned by an agreement of the National Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] I therefore find this motion of rejection rather inappropriate. The responsibilities, the responsibilities, everything that has not worked, we will be able to discuss it afterwards, but what prevails today is the health of the citizens, thus extending the state of health emergency until 10 July.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u24	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u25	The motion to reject tabled by President Mélenchon has one merit: to illustrate the urgency of the fact that, once again and under conditions now better but not yet optimal, the democratic debate is taking place. Even if the state of emergency, which must be prolonged, is synonymous with restrictions on fundamental freedoms – which must be proportionate – this democratic debate is essential for our citizens to understand better than yesterday the need for a number of decisions that have been taken. This is probably the absence of this democratic debate: not that the oppositions have been muzzled or that they have not been able to express themselves, but the functioning of Parliament, abnormal by the force of things, has probably contributed to the fact that our fellow citizens do not understand the coherence of some of the measures of the government plan, yesterday's confinement and, from Monday's point of view, debunking. We share or not the analyses of Jean-Luc Mélenchon and the group IUD, Agir et indépendants do not share at all some of them. But they have the merit of having been exposed and I believe that in the coming months it will be absolutely necessary for these moments of democracy to enable politics to regain its rights and for citizens to participate. We will not vote in favour of the motion to reject, because the debate has taken place, if not under optimal conditions, at least in order to arrive at a rather balanced text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u26	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u27	Of course, we will support this motion to reject. To oppose the obvious majority position that will be expressed, is not to deny the work done by the National Assembly for a whole week, it is simply to think that an opposition still has the right to oppose without us being treated as Polemists by various members of the Government. One of you observed that, in substance – not in form, or you don't know how to intervene – we are increasingly opposed to government announcements. That's right. Despite our criticism that our public health system, despite the quality of caregivers, was unable to cope with this epidemic situation, we addressed this crisis by deciding to trust the Government. However, the least we can say is that since then, he has, supported by your majority, made more and more mistakes – you see that by using this word I do not attack you in front of you, because one can wonder whether it was more of a culpable and voluntary act. This applies to the decision to maintain the municipal elections as well as to the catastrophic management – more and more obvious – of the issue of masks, and to the refusal of any real planning of deconfining, which I hope we will not pay all the broken pots from Monday, starting with those who will be forced to go to work. You are constantly comparing us to other European countries: calm! Italy has stopped any unnecessary work during the confinement period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u28	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u29	The Spaniards banned dismissals. So we are not the only ones who have made social decisions. We need maximum health security. We will always agree with this kind of decision, but that is not what we see in this emergency law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u30	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u31	There are several valid reasons for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left to vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. I shall mention only three of them, which we have already mentioned, but which I am addressing again, because they have not received a satisfactory answer. The first is that there is no balance sheet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u32	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u33	We are being asked to renew a state of emergency, which lasted two months, and no assessment has been presented to the national representation. Secondly, containment, deconfinity, health measures to combat the pandemic and the need for a state of emergency are wisely mixed. But this confusion is not obvious. The confinement was decided in our country even before there was a state of emergency. It is not necessary to decide on containment, sanitary measures or deconfinity. The question that arises about how to be rigorous and how to fight against the pandemic by mobilizing the people as a whole is precisely that of the relationship to the people. Do we trust him? Are we betting on his sense of responsibility and his civicism in order to carry out all the gestures and to have the appropriate behaviors to fight the pandemic? Or is it considered too immature or not sufficiently responsible by resorting to authoritarian measures that the state of emergency allows? This is a hiatus and, if we had taken stock, we would have realized that if our country is the one in Europe where the people have the least confidence in their leaders in the fight against the pandemic, it is perhaps in connection with how to view the civicism of this people and their responsibility to fight together and democratically against the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u35	In the general debate, Mr Florent Boudié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u36	Whatever the benches on which we sit, whatever our sensitivities and partisan formations, I believe that in recent days we have debated and decided in republicans, that is, with the demand that must be ours in the exceptional health crisis that our country faces. It was also in Republicans that we discussed at length with our fellow senators to find a way forward, which is always difficult when, Mr.Mélenchon, we do not know everything, when we must act in the complexity of not knowing everything. We have tried to find a simple path, particularly with regard to criminal responsibility. Many questions had been asked about "the state of scientific knowledge at the time of the facts"; Was that appropriate? In any case, we wanted to provide a secure answer, but it is not irresponsibility. No one would have understood that, in a situation like this, we assumed a principle of irresponsibility. As far as the information system is concerned, we wanted to provide very strong guarantees. We have thus accepted – an illustration among others – the principle of the assent of the CNIL – National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms. We had this debate last night, Mr Coquerel. And we have made this agreement possible because we consider that we can only act in such a violent health crisis – which is not French or even European, but global – with the weapons of democracy. We can only gain confidence, Mr. Little, if we act with the weapons of the rule of law; It's a requirement. It has often been said in our debates, and that is quite correct, that France is the only country where we were debating and deciding in Parliament both on emergency and containment measures and on certain measures related to deconfination. Democracy, in fact, is not a constraint, it is first of all a requirement; We assume it and we want it, too. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We don't know everything, I said; yet we have to decide. In this Chamber, under the rostrum, there is a bas-relief with allegories: on the left, history; in the middle, Janus, who looks at both the past and the future. This is still precisely the position of public officials and decision-makers. It's ours, it's our demand. Thanks to this text, we fulfill this requirement with humility and strength.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u37	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u38	Please excuse my smile despite the gravity of the subject, Mr. President, but Janus is a double-faced god; I am therefore not sure that the comparison is very timely. We have been here for several days, and the opposition of the Republicans, whom I represent, has made demands, because it seems to him that the rule of law is not a faculty or an option, but an ardent obligation. This has led us to make a number of proposals and to work together. We are a demanding but also responsible opposition: we know that the state of emergency cannot stop exactly at the same time as confinement. The rule of law is, of course, permanent, but the state of health emergency must continue after 11 May. We objected to the duration of the state of emergency. No doubt there was no ideal duration, but we thought that a one-month appointment would have been the most appropriate solution, to give Parliament its full place. The date of 24 July was mentioned; It will finally be the date proposed by the Senate on July 10, two months after the beginning of the deconfination. This is not entirely satisfactory, but it would be inappropriate to squander and squander the bill – pass it to me – for a difference of fifteen days, even if it is important, since it will be an extra fifteen days of exception and power exorbitant of the common law, which do not correspond to the normal functioning of a democracy. We also objected to the responsibility of each other: mayors, ministers, senior administrative officials – or officials of authority. We did not want a text that could have appeared as an amnesty law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u39	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u40	For its part, the Senate wanted signals to be sent to the mayors. We have found a compromise, which is neither the text of the Assembly nor that of the Senate, but a third formula, which reaffirms the principle of accountability. For responsibility is, of course, what makes the honor of the chosen, the responsible. There is no function or mandate that holds without this strong commitment. But we have adapted this regime, giving some kind of instructions for use, to take account of the situation. It's neither a white-seing nor a blank cheque; It will be up to the courts to judge, as it should be. Our key policy makers and "decision makers", whatever they may be, will not be exempt from liability. This formula is of a nature to bring us together, and brings us together. In addition, there were still very important issues to be addressed with regard to the information system provided for in article 6. We were afraid, some of us still feared, that this system would be liberbid, that personal data would be used for other purposes, that they would not remain for too long in the "trains" – to use a somewhat trivial term – and that they would not be reeled beyond the intended purposes. Here too, without everything being perfect, we have found an interesting balance. CNIL will be able and will have to give assent. It is a particular method, an exceptional power, in an exceptional period. The data may not be retained for more than three months. It's not the usual procedure, and it's not nothing. Other elements, introduced by the Senate or the Assembly, reinforce protection. Nevertheless, some of us continue to doubt, believing that a breach is open in medical secrecy. It is true that everything has not been decided. Finally, there were differences about the overseas countries and territories. Again, we have found ways and means to ensure that our compatriots and ultramarine friends do not feel treated as second-class citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] All of this brings us closer, with great demand. In conscience and responsibility – Republicans are aware of the future and what they need to do – a very large majority of us will vote for the text. There will probably be a few votes against and some benevolent abstentions, suspended from the Constitutional Council's judgement. Because it is also because the President of the Republic is committed to bringing the matter before the Constitutional Council that we commit ourselves to you, not as a substitute for the majority, but because we believe in a standing France. On this day of Europe, the day after 8 May, I will refer not to Jaurès, the president of the Committee on Laws, but to General de Gaulle and the spirit of resistance, which must animate us in the face of the disease. It is about the future of our citizens and of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u41	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u42	We are pleased to have been able to reach a good agreement with our fellow senators, following an intense but fruitful joint committee. I said that a few hours ago last night. Our working conditions have been special, of course, since our time was forced, but I do not believe that this has altered the quality of our work. The discussions were rich and comprehensive. We spent more than ten hours in committee and twenty-two hours in public sittings to review the bill. It was important that it be promulgated as soon as possible, in order to allow, as early as 11 May, in accordance with the commitments of the Government, the deconfinity expected by many of our fellow citizens. First, the text extends the state of emergency until 10 July. Indeed, the battle against the epidemic is far from being won, and we believe it is necessary to be able to take certain specific measures to protect the health of all. I would like to commend the quality of the parliamentary work on this text. The Senate first conducted an important and necessary work of supervision and precision, which included the deployment of the information system to combat the spread of the epidemic, as provided for in Article 6. It has thus strengthened the control of the judge of freedoms and detention over health measures and guarantees for the control of data of the persons concerned. The National Assembly has continued this work, and I am pleased with the contribution made by the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. We wanted to defend individual freedoms by providing additional guarantees such as the immediate enforceability of the decision of the judge of freedoms and detention or the limitation of the duration of the information system to six months. Another important contribution of parliamentary work is the gradual return to ordinary law on pre-trial detention, starting on 11 May. This key issue had mobilised the Law Commission in its task of monitoring and evaluating the order of 25 March 2020 – as you pointed out, Madam rapporteur. Finally, we have reached a compromise on the sensitive issue of the criminal responsibility of public and private decision-makers, which has occupied much of our discussions in the Joint Joint Committee. We had to find a position of balance, because we had to respond to the legitimate concerns of decision-makers in the context of deconfinity, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to ensure that we did not create a regime derogating them from any responsibility – I want to be very clear, because doubt should not be allowed in this regard. In my view, the compromise reached in the Joint Joint Committee respects this balance: the text recalls that, in a context of emergency health, responsibility within the meaning of Article 121-3 of the Criminal Code is assessed in concrete terms, taking into account the powers, power and means available to the public or private decision-maker at the time of the facts. This provision is fully in keeping with the spirit of the Fauchon Act of 10 July 2000, to which I would like to remind you that our group is particularly committed. For all these reasons, the MODEM Group will give its full support to this text, which is necessary to continue the fight against the pandemic. I would like to thank all the services of the National Assembly, including those of the Law Commission,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u43	They've been at the top!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u44	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] ... for their valuable support during this particular period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u45	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u46	The task this government must do in the face of this unprecedented crisis is not easy. Far be it from us to throw the stone at you. I must acknowledge that you have taken things to arms and with a lot of heart, and we wish you success. Even if you must to some extent act in the fog, we are struck to see the volte-face, the contradictory injunctions, the peremptory words removed afterwards. All this gave us the impression of a somewhat unfortunate improvisation. For several days now, we have been working to ensure that the bill is passed in a timely manner and that it is the best we can for our fellow citizens. In this regard, we welcome the balance reached this morning in the Joint Joint Committee. However, on several aspects of the text, we cannot follow you. Let us begin by noting the hesitations about the responsibility of elected officials. For some time, the Government seemed to have dispensed with them and imposed its decisions. Then he tried to make sure they didn't feel too trapped. I fear, however, that the text in its current wording, resulting from the compromise that you have found, will be seen by our fellow citizens as a way of granting criminal irresponsibility to public and private decision-makers. I am also concerned about the provisions on quarantine in the overseas departments. Such a difference in treatment does not seem justifiable to me. Above all, the enormous information system that you have presented to us is still a problem. It will allow for the collection of sensitive data, including health data, which will be accessible to people who are not doctors – especially since such data may concern people who are not sick and have not given their consent. On the other hand, we know that another system, StopCovid, is in preparation, but we do not know how it will relate to this information system. For all these reasons, we can't give you a white-seing. That is why the Socialist and related group will not vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u47	That's how it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u48	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u49	We are looking at the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee which met this morning. The rapporteur recalled in her remarks that the text voted by the Senate and the text we adopted yesterday were not separated by an ocean. The most complex point was the question of accountability, which arose during the parliamentary debate: the original text contained no provision on the responsibility of public or private decision-makers involved in the management of the current health crisis. Let us remember clearly, because sometimes the written law and the commentary destroyed, that there was neither on the part of the senators behind the first drafting, in particular of President Philippe Bas, nor on the part of our colleagues in the LaREM group or MODEM, like Laurence Vichnievsky, authors of an amendment on this subject, the slightest intention to clear anyone from a form of responsibility related to the management of the crisis. The aim was to reassure a number of people, in particular mayors, local elected officials, but also business leaders, employers, who might think that, because decisions taken by the State, by the Government, are binding on them, and they constitute a channel of communication in the management of the crisis and the implementation of certain provisions, they could, more than normally, be exposed to criminal responsibility. The comment destroyed, I said. That is why the democratic debate must again be complete, because, when truncated, the one that is authentic is the debate of the counters or, in this case, the debate of the social networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u50	Or not very social networks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u51	All suspicions therefore had to be lifted. The drafting of the Joint Joint Committee has the merit of recalling the general principle of the responsibility of public decision-makers. Secondly, it probably avoids the constitutional challenge of amending the criminal law and its scope, since it only amends the public health code. Finally, he recalls, without imposing it on the judges, which constitutes another risk of unconstitutionality, that the circumstances so particular to the Covid crisis constitute in concreteo one of the elements of assessment allowing to assess whether or not to incur the criminal responsibility of a decision-maker, on the ground that he has, in the exercise of his tasks, his powers, his competences, exposed one of our fellow citizens to the disease. However, the debate that took place in Parliament and then in the Joint Joint Committee also allowed, beyond the emergency measures, some answers, even though they had been deleted from the bill. It was because there was a debate in Parliament, because measures were included in the law when they might not have to be included, that the Government decided to announce certain measures, such as the possibility for prefects to decide, in conjunction with mayors and in accordance with health conditions, to reopen, from 11 May, beaches, forests and other spaces, to our fellow citizens. They would not have understood that it would go otherwise, even in the light of health security. However, understanding is crucial in terms of trust. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] For these reasons, the IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote in the vast majority for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u52	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u53	France saw a special moment that few had imagined, even if, in recent years, specialists had alerted us about the risk of a pandemic. Were we prepared? Maybe not. When the time comes, we will have to understand what has happened to us, even if, gradually, we begin to know certain facts. We all have a responsibility. Moreover, no one can question the will of the Government, and in particular of the Minister of Solidarity and Health, to find as quickly as possible and under the best conditions solutions to protect the health of the French, to limit as much as possible the number of deaths and to enable our country to recover. For several weeks now, the legislators we are are voting for texts that no one could have anticipated. Our country's latest draft amending finance bill confirms a debt equal to 120 per cent of GDP, a public deficit of 9 per cent and a deterioration in our social accounts of 50 billion. As for health and social or legal measures, they are also out of order, in the sense that they call into question public freedoms. So far, we have supported these texts, but today a large part of my group will abstain or vote against the bill for two reasons. First, we remain freedom-loving legislators and defenders of public freedoms. However, we are concerned about Article 6, the logic of which, given the need to combat the virus, we understand. The proposed measures seem to us to be taken in haste, which has become the rule, while we do not yet know their consequences. I welcome the work carried out in the Joint Joint Committee. The consensus reached by the Commission is in the right direction, since it places greater emphasis on CNIL and specifies that the data collected will not be retained for more than three months. But if, once again, we do not doubt the Government's willingness to find the best solutions, we are going into the unknown and we do not know how this could end. Secondly, our group consists of three elected representatives from Corsica. However, the Government remains deaf to our problem. The ban on any movement exceeding 100 kilometres separates Corsica from the continent. No one can therefore go to our island, except for professional reasons or for compelling family reasons. There's almost no boat or plane serving her. For several weeks, no aircraft has been connecting Corsica to Paris. It is cut off from the rest of the continent, for health reasons of the rest easy to understand, given the home that developed in Ajaccio. However, tourism accounts for 50% of the island's economy. He's making her live. However, the bill gives the prefect the opportunity to place travellers who arrive in quarantine, which will also apply to the DOM-TOM. So we know that few people will come to Corsica this summer. We're going to have a white year. Much of our businesses, as well as our economic tools, will disappear. In this context, the island's elected representatives, not only the Members I mentioned but also Gilles Simeoni, want to build a plan to save the island economy. If some Members of our group will abstain on this text or cast a negative vote, it is because we have not received any answers. I hope these will come. I say so solemnly as the DOM-TOMs, I repeat, are in the same situation as us. Let us not make islanders of the French apart, by refusing to provide specific answers to an atypical situation. Mr Secretary of State, I am convinced that, together, we can quickly find indispensable solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u54	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u55	The first substantive question raised by this text was this: should the state of health emergency be extended? She's not annoyed. An emergency law creates a state of emergency, one of those states that parliamentarians should never get used to. They must also ensure that the Government does not get used to the comfort created by a state of emergency that grants it additional powers. This is particularly true under the Fifth Republic. On this first question, while we are still two weeks away from the end of the first emergency health law, we answered no. We have not understood why you rejected all the amendments aimed at prolonging this state of health emergency until June, even though, according to the Prime Minister, there will be some sort of re-visit at the end of the first period of de-confinition. Therefore, why reject both the principle and the date we proposed? I would add that the state of emergency has extended more than 20 prescriptions. However, whether you want it or not, this way of governing is a permanent insult to Parliament, since it allows the Government to take decisions freely. Moreover, the Council of State considers that an automatic extension of the ordinances, without a vote by the legislator, is not desirable. That is the second reason why we reject the text. With respect to clause 1, I understand the original view of honourable senators. From the moment that the state is disposing of many of its responsibilities over the mayors, it would be unlikely that the mayors would be the only ones to pay...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u56	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u57	I don't have five minutes?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u58	Yes, excuse me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u59	Nice try, Richard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u60	After the fact-finding mission, you should avoid interrupting me becoming a habit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u61	The mistake is human, my dear colleague, and I will even return you, interest and principal, the time that this little incident has wasted us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u62	Interest rates are not very high right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u63	Thank you. At the outset, senators wanted to avoid, I said, that mayors would not pay for broken bribes by assuming criminal responsibility, while ministers or other elected officials would benefit from an amnesty. Making decisions that could put people at risk or save lives is the most serious responsibility an elected official can exercise. In this regard, the new wording does not fully reassure us. Although the provisions are now no longer part of the criminal code but of public health, so that they will disappear at the end of the state of health emergency, the elected representatives will be able to systematically refer to this legal basis, and the judges will be able to see, in this drafting, an intention of the legislator not to make them liable for their acts. Finally, I note that the measure was extended to include employers, in response to a request made a few days ago by the MEDEF. For our part, we thought that the Fauchon law was sufficient, the judge having always ruled according to the circumstances. I come to the question of data. Yesterday, Mr.Véran told us that the creation of a file was not a problem, since there are already files, one of which is dedicated to patients with a long-term condition, as if its existence could reassure us. We do not want the world of stamping, especially when it doubles a trace. That is the fundamental problem. In fact, unlike the file I have just mentioned, which allows social security to know at what rate such medication is reimbursed to a patient, the one you create concerns both patients and non-malads, which is a novelty. Then we don't know who will use it. We were not answered on this point. Clearly, its use will extend beyond the medical world, which poses the problem of secrecy. Finally, tracing is not trivial. It is assumed that the contaminated person could get out of the radars. As such, she is considered guilty. In our view, volunteering would be a sufficient weapon, while tracing will inevitably lead to the use of StopCovid. The minister objected yesterday that we were all on Twitter, which is after all a form of tracing. Of course, but we have the freedom to be on Twitter or not! We have proposed that this tracing be deleted after a month. As by chance, we were denied it, on the grounds that the data collected could be used longer for epistemological research. I conclude by recalling that the bill does not contain any social measures commensurate with the state of social emergency we know. I regret not being able to detail this point for lack of time. If you have not anticipated the crisis and planned the deconfination, you are looking to show the muscles. But it is never a sign of efficiency or intelligence. I hope we don't all have to regret your attitude from Monday!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u64	That's a lot of exaggeration!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u65	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u66	At this time, so delicate and concerned about our history, the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left are more than ever animated by the sense of responsibility that lies with the representatives of the people. That is why, for this text as well as for the previous ones, we wanted to explore all possible paths of concord, with the sole aim of restoring the confidence of French and French people in our ability to solve this health crisis. Alas! Despite the democratic virtues that some would like to give it, the agreement reached today in the Joint Joint Committee is not part of this process, nor is it good news for our country. This is the result of a compromise – a small compromise, I would like to say – between the majority of the Senate and that of the National Assembly. For the majority of the Senate, it was mainly about the criminal responsibility of mayors. It is true that there is a real question here, and that dealing with it is not a small matter. But was it necessary, in this compromise, to establish the mechanism which was found in the Joint Joint Committee, which, whatever it is said, and although you were defending it, prepares the ground for a possible general amnesty for all the wrong decisions of public decision-makers, from the smallest village mayor, to the highest officials and possibly to the ministers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u67	No! That's not true, and you know it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u68	He didn't listen this morning...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u69	We do not believe that such a mechanism can reassure our fellow citizens of our nation's ability to cope with such a crisis. We believe that it is dangerous for democracy in our country to fuel the suspicion and mistrust of our fellow citizens towards their leaders.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u70	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u71	For the majority of the Assembly, the matter was mainly concerned with the establishment of an information system and health brigades, which were, at the very least, unprecedented, and which were not without problems in terms of respect for fundamental freedoms. Whatever we say, with contact tracing, a presupposition of distrust vis-à-vis our fellow citizens prevails. Why are they so infantilized? Why, when confinement – we should have been able to take stock of the first phase of the state of emergency – showed the immense civicism, the immense discipline of our fellow citizens? Who could imagine that in a few hours it would be possible to contain 66 million French in full? However, the vast majority of them have complied with the rules. Why not rely on this civicism, this sense of responsibility? Why prefer a more authoritarian approach than a citizen? Of course, all this prefigures the StopCovid application, and we regret the majority's refusal, despite the demands we made in our amendments, to refuse a debate here – not a formal and general debate, but a real debate with an amended legislative text – on the StopCovid application. We understood – probably wrongly – that this was the Prime Minister's commitment to us. We do not forget the bulk of the text that is being put to our vote – and that we will not vote. It aims to extend the state of health emergency. For our part, we refuse to give our backing to this exceptional legal regime, which concentrates powers in the hands of the executive, restricts the fundamental freedoms of everyone, and allows mass control of the population. We refuse to give this state of emergency absolved, when, as I have already said and will not cease to say, no assessment of this state of emergency has been transmitted to the national representative, since the latter has no idea of its actual or even supposed efficiency. However, this would have been the least before we proposed to extend it. Others have said that there is nothing in this text concerning the state of social emergency in which our country is located. We know that, in addition to the enormous economic and social challenges ahead, we are already facing social emergencies. In my department, in Seine-Saint-Denis, I see it every day: people are hungry, afraid; They cannot continue to live in the current economic situation. At the very least, it would have been necessary to pay attention to them, beyond the decisions already taken, in order to reassure them. None of this can be found in this text, giving us an additional reason to vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u72	Disappointing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u73	I shall now put the bill as a whole to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee, since the representatives of the groups have the votes of the members of their group and the different positions communicated in advance will obviously be taken into account in the analysis of the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-09-O1206.u74	Next sitting, Tuesday, 12 May, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. The meeting is adjourned.
