ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u1	The Minister of the Interior informed the President of the National Assembly that the election to the Senate of Ms. Valérie Boyer, Mr. Stéphane Demilly and Mr. Philippe Folliot had become final. Accordingly, pursuant to Article L.O. 137 of the electoral code, are replaced until the renewal of the National Assembly: in the first electoral district of Bouches-du-Rhône, Mme Valérie Boyer by M. Julien Ravier; in the fifth electoral district of the Somme, M. Stéphane Demilly by M. Grégory Labille; in the first electoral district of the Tarn, M. Philippe Folliot by Mme Muriel Roques-Etienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u2	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Albane Gaillot and others to strengthen the right to abortion (No 3292, 3383).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u3	Mrs Albane Gaillot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u4	Nothing is more precarious than women's rights. The death of the great Ruth Bader Ginsburg is an umpteenth alarm signal. The liberbid abortion laws adopted in recent years in the United States but also in Europe, are all others. To those who take refuge behind the eternal "it's worse elsewhere", I want to oppose another reality. In France, the use of voluntary termination of pregnancy is increasingly difficult, particularly as a result of the closure of abortion centres and large territorial disparities in the provision of care and access to information. Every day in France, women pay the costs of the conscience clause specific to the IVG,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u5	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u6	... which enshrines abortion as a separate act, stigmatizing and guilty. It is difficult to be reunited this morning without thinking about the day of November 1974 when Simone Veil went to this same forum to defend her bill; Also difficult not to think of the famous argument of Gisèle Halimi. Forty-five years ago, France recognized the right of all women to freely dispose of their bodies. So, why legislate today? Health professionals and associations that accompany women have been alerting us for many years to the obstacles to this right. My colleagues Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Cécile Muschotti, whom I salute, have carried out, on behalf of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women in our Assembly, a long-term work with women and all professionals. For my part, I conducted hearings to draft this bill and held field meetings. We have heard all the parties. As we know, we will not be able to silence the darkest obscurantisms; Moreover, this is not our objective. But we also know that 75% of French women say they are in favour of voluntary termination of pregnancy without restriction. The collective and transpassionate work we have carried out on this text is an important signal. Despite our political affiliations and personal convictions, we have come together around the same goal: to advance women's rights and send a strong message to the world. I would like to thank the members of all the groups that co-signed the bill, as well as those who contributed to enriching it in committee. The bill that I present to you consists of five sections, as opposed to two originally. It foresees major advances for women and for access to abortion, thanks to three main levers. The first lever is temporal. As we know, the information report of the delegation for women's rights has shown and the hearings I have conducted have largely confirmed this: the current deadlines are too limited, making it difficult for women to access abortion. First of all, we intend to act on the abortion period, bringing it from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy; This is the subject of Article 1. Every year, 3,000 to 5,000 women in our country are forced to go abroad for abortion because of exceeding legal deadlines. And how many others cannot bear the many costs involved, in terms of travel, accommodation and the cost of intervention? [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC and GDR groups. – Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha also applauds]] To those who call for women's responsibility, I would like to point out that none of them postpones their decision by distraction, lack of time or pleasure. Exceeding legal deadlines is more a reflection of women's difficulties in accessing and accessing abortion than of their difficulty in making a choice. Then we want to take action on the time frame for reflection. While the law of 26 January 2016 on the modernization of our health system has abolished any period of reflection between the consultation of information and the collection of consent, a period of reflection of two days persists in the law for women who benefit from psychosocial maintenance – optional for adults, mandatory for minors. We propose to repeal this provision. We want to act on a second lever: by acting on the offer of care. We know that significant territorial inequalities persist in our territory...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u8	... and that accessibility to GVI is not identical everywhere. That is why we propose to open up to midwives the possibility of performing surgical IVGs. We want to increase the number of professionals able to carry out GVIs and thereby strengthen our territorial network. The deletion of the conscience clause specific to the IVG also goes in this direction. Let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen: we do not touch on the general awareness clause of doctors and midwives; On the other hand, we are putting an end to the anachronistic legal treatment of which the abortion is still the subject. This measure is both symbolic and very concrete. It will, I am sure, make it possible to change attitudes. The third and last lever I will identify is information. As we know, information about abortion is fundamental, and we intend to help strengthen it by providing, on the one hand, for regional health agencies to publish a directory of professionals and, on the other hand, for the Government to submit to Parliament a report on the implementation of legislation on the offence of obstruction. This text is above all a balanced text, a text of consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u9	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u10	It's a split text!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u11	It's going to turn out!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u12	It responds to long-standing demands from actors and actresses on the ground and, above all, women. It will bring about concrete changes in the lives of our fellow citizens. Colleagues, almost fifty years after Bobigny's trial, Gisèle Halimi's words still resonate: "Do you want to force women to give life by failure, by mistake, by oblivion? Is progress [...] not precisely to block the road to failure, to defeat failure, to repair oblivion, to repair error? » [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC and GDR groups as well as on many benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat, this bill is not a political group, but one of all the Members who defend women's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u13	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u14	And hospital breakup!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u15	We are listening carefully, Minister! Here, members of the EDS group have settled on the benches of the SOC group!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u16	We're flying goals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u17	With this bill, we address a sensitive theme, which mobilizes beliefs as deep-rooted as they are diverse; We are continuing a debate which resonated in this House forty-five years ago and which is one of those that has moved French society forward. Indeed, forty-five years ago, our country made a historic choice, and the right to abortion will remain emblematic of the great struggles being waged by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, for it has put an end to clandestine abortions, which had cost so many lives, and has greatly advanced women's rights. Allow me to thank those who, on a daily basis, make the exercise of this right possible and make this law what it is basically: a right to the service of women, the right of women to dispose of their bodies. We all remember the words of the great Simone Veil in this same rostrum; We all have in mind the violence of the attacks she faced with exceptional courage, now in the legend. If the Veil law is forty-five years old, I remain, in my capacity as minister, extremely vigilant, because the right to abortion is called into question in many countries where it was taken for granted. Everywhere there are growing threats, which must mobilize us. There is obviously a link – how can we not see it? – between authoritarian tendencies and denial of the right to abortion. But we are also witnessing setbacks, which warn us, in some democracies, in the United States and, closer to us, in some European countries. [[Mrs Fadila Khattabi, Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, Mrs Anne-Christine Lang and the rapporteur applaud]] In France, very recently, in January 2020, an anti-IVG campaign was launched in the advertising spaces of the Paris metro. This campaign dared to show that such a return forty-five years back would be "progress for society." Nor do I forget that the misconceptions and speeches that make women feel guilty are circulating at high speed on social networks. And I say it as I think it is: sowing trouble, sharpening doubts, harassing those who are in reflection or who have made their decision, is quite unbearable. Do I have to mention here the regular gatherings which, still today, are aimed at discouraging women from resorting to abortion? As a doctor, I have received many testimonies from women who have faced, in their journey to abortion, a form of psychological pressure, even inspired by benevolent thoughts. "Are you really sure? "; "Don't you need more time? "; "Is that really what you want? "; "Are you not going to regret it? "; "You know, it will be very hard..." are all elements of a discourse that can be felt, by these women, as an intense psychological pressure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and EDS groups]] [[Same movements]] We could just see in the rallies that I have just mentioned at times ostentatious demonstrations of bigotry, sometimes ridiculous simmagreas. But they bear witness to a much more serious will: that of a return to the grip on women's bodies. Indeed, the right to abortion is the resolute affirmation of women's right to dispose of their bodies. [[Same movements. – Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] In 2019, 232,000 voluntary terminations of pregnancy were carried out in our country. The delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women of the National Assembly, more specifically its rapporteur Mrs Battistel and Mrs Muschotti, have prepared an information report on access to the IVG which I would call remarkable. Produced after the hearing of many associations and professionals, it gives a detailed and rich record of the difficulties still encountered by women in their journey. It is a serious work that shows that there is still a long way to go to narrow the gap between the legal right and the real right to abortion. Of course, the health crisis we are experiencing is not without consequences for the exercise of the right to abortion, but everything has been done to ensure that this right remains effective and is exercised in the best possible conditions. Covid-19 did not challenge our most fundamental values and, at my request, the department fully mobilized to facilitate timely access to the GVI. The necessary measures have been taken to preserve the women of the covid -19, through dedicated circuits, and to save hospital resources while maintaining the quality of the care of the IVG. I am thinking in particular of the priority given to the simplification of the management of IVG drugs in the city, and even at home, which has been extended to nine weeks of amenorrhea, as in health facilities. As such, I took by order an exceptional derogatory measure to allow, in practice, a young woman, even a minor, who would have been well worth explaining why she had to leave in full confinement to go to a family planning or hospital three times – a prior consultation, a consultation for taking the medication and a consultation after taking the medication – to use teleconsultation and take the medicine at home. I could not envisage that some pregnancies would be revealed too late in the case of young girls who would have been afraid to tell their parents. This derogation related to the state of health emergency has now fallen. In order to proceed with this procedure, on 23 September, I referred the matter to the National Public Health Agency and the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products – ANSM – in order to determine, on the basis of the recommendations made by these agencies, whether it is possible to include in our law this provision which I believe in. General practitioners, gynaecologists and midwives in the city, as well as family planning centres, have made remarkable efforts to enable all women, especially isolated women, in complex and remote situations of our health system, to exercise their right to abortion in the conditions of safety and quality required, taking into account the impact of the crisis on their individual situation. While 5% of abortions take place within the last two weeks of the legal deadline, between the twelfth and fourteenth weeks of amenorrhea, we develop special support for late abortions with teams dedicated to coordination. Also with the objective of guaranteed access to IVG during the containment period, teleconsultation has demonstrated its relevance to some or all of the consultations that structure the IVG drug route in the city. The drug circuit has been designed to allow women to obtain abortive pills directly from the pharmacy. Finally, with regard to deadlines, I know that some wanted to go further during the crisis period, on the legitimate ground that the circumstances made it more complex to comply with the legal deadline. I hear that argument. But it is above all in order to meet the absolute need to guarantee access to IVG that we have changed the time frame for IVG drugs in the city, after advice from the High Health Authority – HAS. However, as in many areas of health, the crisis has helped to identify the weaknesses and strengths of the mechanisms that enable women to exercise this fundamental right. I wanted to point out that, in the very difficult period we are experiencing, the protection of the right to abortion has remained – and of course remains – essential. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion we are undertaking is necessary, because it is a question of a fundamental right and its possible development. Thank you very much for allowing this debate, which was often at the initiative of parliamentarians. [[Mr. Didier Martin applauds. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon protested]] One of the major questions raised by the bill is whether extending the legal time limit for the abortion would facilitate access to it, for whom and under what conditions. Is it not better to give more force to the existing law, by continuing our efforts to ensure a diversified and close supply of real, permanently accessible and accessible abortions that meet the needs of women in all territories? I pay tribute here to the work of Mrs Marisol Touraine, former Minister of Health, who, as a Member of Parliament, had sat on socialist benches. On several occasions, it has strengthened real access to abortion during the previous quinquennium by strengthening the anonymisation and care of minors and by introducing a paying third party; measures to remove barriers that are actually measured to the GVI. We need to take a close look at the reasons that lead women to find themselves out of time. According to the family planning, these reasons are of two kinds. First, there are those related to the organisation of services and care, lack of information, accessibility of services, appointment times, lack of professionals, or – I will come back to this – the use of the conscience clause in a sometimes selective way by doctors. There are then personal reasons, such as the late diagnosis of pregnancy, teenage pregnancies that do not dare to talk about it, the departure or breakdown of the partner, and situations of unemployment or precariousness that make the parental project fragile. In short, there are objective reasons for our organizations and individual reasons that are most often due to situations of vulnerability. This is a first step in identifying our gaps and strengthening our mechanisms to make the right to abortion more accessible, therefore more effective – also more responsive to the individual needs of each woman and respectful of her choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u19	Furthermore, in view of the issues it raises, I have referred the matter to the NCCE – National Ethics Advisory Committee – which will shortly issue an opinion on the extension of the legal time limit for voluntary termination of pregnancy. Because this extension raises questions concerning the protection of women's health and the analysis of the complexity of the technical actions to be carried out; These issues challenge the most fierce advocates of the right to abortion. I cannot, in conscience, consider that we have all the elements to make such a decision today. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Protests on the benches of the SOC, EDS and GDR groups]] I tell you in all sincerity: to extend the deadline for access to the abortion without having previously consulted the independent bodies that the state has created to inform public policy decisions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u20	Fosseur de la santé!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you dispute the need to seize the CCNE. I do not rule here on the time limit for access; I'm not talking about the substance of the bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u22	Speak human!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u23	[[Exclaims on the SOC and EDS panels]] ...and the consistency of the work done, which I recognized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u24	We don't ask for congratulations, we want facts!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u25	Let us have a calm debate on the matter. One can be strongly involved on the subject in a personal capacity – everyone is free of their convictions, and it is not for me to criticize them. But finally, when we want to carry out a complete, successful work of amending the law in ethical matters, not to seize the CCNE, not to listen to the voices of those who have been given a place within the state itself to inform public policy decisions, it is a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u26	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u27	It feels like he's not comfortable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group.– Exclaims on the benches of the EDS group]] [["Yes! » on the benches of the EDS group]] With regard to the awareness clause, the results of the 2019 survey of regional health agencies did not reveal any difficulties of a national dimension of access to abortion linked to the opposition of professionals to the awareness clause. On this point, the bill has an essentially symbolic, almost semantic scope, even if it is a symbol that is important since it marks the obligation for the professional who refuses to practice an abortion to accompany the woman to an offer that will enable her to exercise her right to abortion. The practical corollary of this measure must therefore remain the development of the offer of abortion and its visibility, the establishment of real paths for women wishing to have abortions, the training of professionals and the reminder of their obligation to orient women to suitable places of care, especially with regard to late abortion situations. I wished to address here the questions raised by the original provisions of the text; We will have the opportunity to review the other provisions adopted by the committee during the debates. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that they will take place in respectful and serene conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u29	That's what we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u30	We are collectively able to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u31	Show him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u32	As I said in the preamble, this is not an insignificant subject: it is a real, a great debate in society and it is in this Chamber that it must take place. You will find in me, Minister of Solidarity and Health,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u33	...the rationing of hospitals and the retreat of medicine!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u34	...a fervent advocate for the cause of women and the right to abortion, and I do not deny any of my past positions. But I am also a fervent defender of the rule of law and the functioning of our institutions. I hope that, on a subject like this, progress will be made in satisfactory and informed conditions of debate which will enable them to be consolidated in the long term so that, if adopted, they will not be called into question in a few weeks or months for formal reasons. Nothing would be worse than making it appear that progress has been made on access to abortion, although that would not be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u35	We've been asking you for six months! We asked the question for the first time six months ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u36	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In view of the attention I have always paid to the exercise of this fundamental right, it does not seem to me to be possible to consider that the main thrust of this text alone will resolve access to the IVG. It is therefore with highly measured wisdom, on formal but significant grounds, that the Government will address each of the issues raised by the articles and amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u37	In the general debate, Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u38	One week after intense and transparant work in committee, this session is an opportunity for the National Assembly to vote on an ambitious and expected text, and to send a strong signal on the effective exercise of women's rights. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] The rapporteur, our colleague Albane Gaillot, the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women, and in particular our colleagues Marie-Pierre Rixain, Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Cécile Muschotti, have carried out a dense, significant, comprehensive and enlightening work which enables the legislator to become aware of the difficulties which persist in the exercise of a right: that for a woman, to resort to abortion. No one needs to wait for other reports or opinions, which would further delay some progress in a society that claims to be progressive, egalitarian and supportive. This is not a crusade for abortion – I hope that the debates on this subject are outdated. The aim is to put an end, where they remain, to the situations of disorder and injustice, and to bring about "measured and human" solutions, in the words of President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing on the eve of a very difficult debate in this House in 1974. Between 3000 and 5000 women would go abroad every year to resort to abortion because their pregnancy was known late – because the information is not accessible to all, because the abortion is hindered in the name of religious or ideological beliefs, or because women suffer from a varying offer of care depending on the territory. The extension of the deadline from 12 to 14 weeks, if it does not make it possible to overcome territorial inequalities, would be a factor of social justice, since it would allow those who renounce the right to abortion for financial or organisational reasons to abort in France. I would like to point out that late abortions are a priority for young people and precarious women. The specific awareness clause allows the IVG to be classified as a separate care. It allows to keep an over-year vision of female irresponsibility in the face of sexuality and to store the abortion as an accessory or comfort care, or worse, a culpable care, a shameful care, a care that must be hidden or silenced even to his closest family. She is a legislative witness to the lack of consideration for women. To delete this clause is to end an archaism. The text was enriched by the committee, which added, among other things, the possibility for midwives to carry out instrumental IVGs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u40	It's a good thing: allowing these medical professionals specializing in women's health to do more is an obvious, and an additional opportunity to improve access to care.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u42	No, women are not great ecclesiasticals, who would need the committal of a practitioner, because they could commit the irreparable. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the EDS group]] No, women don't deserve a special conscience clause. Like all insured persons, they must have access to the care they need. No, women must not go to Holland, Spain or elsewhere to get an abortion, once the twelve-week period has expired. Yes, women must have access, much easier than they do today, and throughout the country, to a practitioner who can use the GVI. Of course, midwives will be able to assume this role without difficulty. Ladies and gentlemen, we have, on this subject, as is normal, disagreements, which we will have the opportunity to express earlier. Nevertheless, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group wishes to recall its intention by placing this bill on the agenda of its own-initiative parliamentary day: to defend the general interest. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC and GDR groups]] Today, it is in the general interest to submit to the Senate, at the end of our debates, a text that places at the heart of the law, for men, women and couples, the free exercise of a fundamental right, that of choosing one's life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u43	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u44	"I cried a lot that night. Sitting on a bench of the hospital, prostrated, annihilated, I had discovered oppression in the most barbaric form. Trauma. But I don't regret anything. Biology set me a trap; I'd foiled him. I wanted to live in harmony with my body, not under his diktat. Behind this passage of a fierce freedom, by Gisèle Halimi, emerges what still too many women live today, when they engage in a voluntary termination of pregnancy. Although the abortion has been decriminalized and legalized in France for more than forty-five years, the effective maintenance of this right remains fragile. The right of women to dispose of their bodies, this fundamental right, consubstantial to the very notion of individual freedom, seems incomplete. It is in order to guarantee to all women living in France an equal right of access to abortion that the delegation to the rights of women and to equality between men and women of our assembly constituted an information mission on access to the voluntary termination of pregnancy. This mission, which I had the honour of being rapporteur with my colleague Marie-Noëlle Battistel, returned its work less than a month ago. After hearing for months dozens of representatives of associations working in all the fields concerned, after having moved to France and abroad, we came to the conclusion that the conditions for access to abortion are uneven on the national territory. There are still too many obstacles to access to the IVG, which could be easily removed. The provision of care varies, and access difficulties have increased in times of health crisis. Obstacles are still too numerous, the number of practitioners is decreasing. Thousands of women have to travel abroad to resort to abortions outside the time frame. If freedom is the choice of constraints, then it is not complete when the constraints are too numerous and become dirimant. We need to "improve the concrete conditions for access to the IVG and change attitudes" to take up the title of Title II of our information report. Madam rapporteur, our observations are in line with yours. Difficulties plunge women into a sense of loneliness, rejection and anguish, even though they should be accompanied as effectively as possible towards an act that, even if it is done voluntarily, remains serious. [[Applause on some benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] "Abortion of convenience" does not exist, Simone Veil said in 1974, and so must always find a "realistic, human and just" solution to this problem, to use the terms she used here. We are now legislating in a constrained framework, since, in any event, the consideration of this bill will end when the third sitting of the day is adjourned. For this reason, the text of this bill cannot be increased, and we must remain focused solely on the provisions of the Public Health Code. The Government has just referred the issue of extending the legal deadline for abortion to the National Ethics Advisory Committee. The NCCE had already been seized of this issue twenty years ago, almost to the day, by the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate, about the extension of the statutory deadline to twelve weeks. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] The Committee then considered that if "one can indeed question the risk of the succession of requests to carry the threshold beyond 12 weeks,... it is reasonable to believe that this risk is minimal, given the physiological and psychological changes that accompany the pregnancy. In any event, it seems difficult for a society not to set limits, even if it is known that they are arbitrary and contingent in nature, and that particular cases may continue to push them. This wise reasoning bodes well for the CCNE's response, which will not fail to inform the Senate's debates, when it considers this bill, after it is passed in the House of Commons. But is the extension of the legal time limit for IVG an ethical question, which Paul Ricœur defines, in a beautiful expression, as "the aim of an accomplished life", referring to the individual trajectory in the society of every man aspired to a good life? [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, EDS and SOC groups]] Is it not rather a question of morality, if morals is, as Jürgen Habermas points out, "a intuition that informs us on the question of how we should behave at best in order to counter the extreme vulnerability of people, protecting and saving them"? Yes, ensuring women's access to abortion is a moral issue, and it is up to us to articulate it in the legislative norm.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u45	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u46	Simone Veil, Françoise Giroud, Gisèle Halimi: so many women who have distinguished themselves in recent decades, each with their own words and sensitivity, but also with the same courage, so that voluntary pregnancy intervention is no longer an illegal, shameful, inaccessible practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u47	Pursue the struggle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u48	In 1975, I was a young woman admiring the political and media struggle these women waged in order to freely choose the possibility of carrying life. Over the past four decades, changes in legislation and attitudes have made it possible for women in our country to emancipate themselves through a protective legal framework. From the principle of the right to abort to the material conditions of care, all these advances have been fought with tenacity by women and men convinced that access to voluntary termination of pregnancy is a right for women. I am also thinking of the more contemporary voice of Dr Ghada Hatem-Gantzer, obstetrician gynecologist, founder of the Maison des femmes en Seine-Saint-Denis. Through her testimony of a daily exercise, she sheds light on a raw and difficult reality. The IVG, for a woman, is not an annoyance, comfort, but a significant event; It will mark the life of one in three Frenchmen. That is why, and because the legislation governing it is marked by an extraordinary dimension, we, the legislators, have a duty to lay down its framework with serenity. I therefore deeply regret that the majority in this House have chosen this legislative process, which I shall describe as a draft. This debate on the extension of the abortion deadline, the extension of the right to perform surgical abortions to midwives and the removal of the specific awareness clause should not take place this morning in a parliamentary niche. [[Exclaims on the SOC and EDS panels]] The bill, after being tabled at the end of the summer, has been detrigued and retrigued in recent days in the light of a partial information report by the delegation on women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women. This is not a serious way of legislating,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u49	Thank you for the work we have done!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u50	... in particular on a subject as important and symbolic as the right to abortion, and you are well aware of this, as shown by the floating of your majority, and the tabling in September of a bill to improve access to voluntary termination of pregnancy by Marie-Pierre Rixain, president of the delegation for women's rights, as well as by the rapporteurs of the fact-finding mission on access to voluntary intervention in pregnancy. "There is a problem of method," to use the Prime Minister's words. I am opposed to extending the time limit for recourse to abortion from 12 to 14 weeks. Family planning pointed out four types of difficulties, which you recalled, minister. There is a need to find adequate information and a competent interlocutor on the issue of abortion – the situation in this area varies greatly from region to region. There is a need to find practitioners who are willing to carry out GVI; However, some health professionals opposed to abortion contribute to delaying the care of women who wish to use it. Some hospital centres are engorged. Finally, some areas have become medical deserts. None of these difficulties will be overcome if our Assembly votes in favour of an additional two weeks. If you really want to work seriously and prevent abortion from being used as a method of contraception, you need to introduce new prevention and information mechanisms or improve existing ones,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u51	What we want to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u52	...and not allow an additional period. That is exactly what the minister delegated to the Minister of the Interior, responsible for citizenship, Marlène Schiappa, reminded us this morning. The creation of the website ivg.gouv.fr is an important step forward; It must be followed by other innovative mechanisms, which do not exclude any woman, regardless of her place of residence and social background. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Chill and Mr Joachim Son-Forget also applaud]] I am deeply convinced that the right to abortion is a fundamental achievement for women. However, for the reasons given, I shall vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u53	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u54	I would like to make it clear from the outset that the members of the Group of the Movement for Democracy and Related Democrats will, in their own soul and conscience, be free to vote on the bill. This text can be read differently, depending on its political views, origins and beliefs. However, the right of women to choose freely whether or not to give life has been a constant in our country since 1974, for to receive a child, one must be psychologically, physically and socially ready. Society needs to hear it. The choice of using GVI – because it is a choice – must be weighed. To do this, we must be able to apply it. Women's right to dispose of their bodies is the object of an ancient struggle; It is a flame that must be maintained, as it regresses in many countries around the world. This right is not acquired and we must remember it. The text provides an answer, particularly for those territories which do not have doctors practising abortion. Because of medical demography or the personal convenience of practitioners, women find themselves in difficulty every day. In my department, Nièvre, for example, only one doctor performs surgical abortions. This situation is not admissible in our country. Therefore, the opening of the possibility of carrying out these acts to midwives seems to me to be a central provision of the text; It would be a real step forward in the use of the IVG. However, the Commission's current drafting cannot be satisfactory, as we lack information on its implications for the profession in terms of workload, remuneration and training. I shall therefore, on behalf of my group, present an amendment on this subject. Furthermore, we are wondering about this parliamentary initiative, only a few days after the publication of the comprehensive report of the delegation to women's rights. Indeed, beyond the media effect, it is important not to create false hopes: the legislative path to this proposal is still long. However, we welcome the fact that the National Ethics Advisory Committee, which has so far been silent, has finally seized the matter. We await its conclusions, because such an issue for society cannot be confined to a parliamentary niche. It deserves a social debate, which confronts opinions in order to reach a compromise. It is not a question of trivializing abortion, but of offering all women a real choice. All those who have ever resorted to abortion understand the meaning of the words spoken here by Simone Veil: "It is always a tragedy and it will always remain a tragedy. » In 2019, the rate of abortion among the poorest people rose sharply. Our public health policy must draw the consequences in terms of access to information and contraception and respect for the rights of the body. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is far beyond the scope of this bill. That is why Members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats will vote consciously on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u56	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u57	On 26 November 1974, Simone Veil went up to this rostrum to defend her bill to decriminalize abortion. It opened the way to what would become one of the greatest societal and social advances in our country. Yet, forty-five years later, nothing is truly acquired. While abortion is tolerated, it is still not considered to be a real right. With Cécile Muschotti, we led, as part of the delegation to women's rights and equality between men and women – I thank her president, Marie-Pierre Rixain, for her commitment and confidence – a fact-finding mission on access to the IVG. After a year of exchanges and meetings with the medical world, associations and family planning, supplemented by trips abroad, the finding is alarming. Strong territorial disparities persist in access to this right. The delays between the first application and the treatment vary almost from simple to quadruple depending on the region, due in particular to the insufficient number of health professionals or adapted services in many territories. These difficulties are all the more regrettable because they affect the most vulnerable groups: young girls, women who are isolated in rural areas, women who are pregnant as a result of rape, or who have only limited resources, who, in most cases, are closed the door to the voluntary termination of pregnancy. These women, who are still too many, cannot resort to a right that has yet been torn from a great struggle by our predecessors. [[Applause on the SOC, EDS and GDR benches]] Can it still be tolerated, almost half a century after the adoption of the Veil Act, that the right to abortion is considered a second category right, the application of which varies according to the territories or practitioners? No. No right can suffer from a variable geometry application. A right is effective or it is not!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u59	Can we accept that, every year, 3000 to 5000 women are forced to go abroad to practice an IVG? They are obliged to do so, because the legal time limit for recourse in our neighbours is much longer than at home. In this regard, the health crisis and containment have confirmed that our legislation must necessarily evolve by aggravating the difficulties of timely access to abortion. Two legislative proposals aim to remove these obstacles. The one we are dealing with today has a number of consequences from our information report. First, it proposes extending the time limit for the voluntary termination of pregnancy from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy. This provision will help – along with others – to put an end to this hypocrisy, which leads a large number of women to be out of time, for lack of practitioners, or to resort to this right on the other side of our borders. She then proposed deleting the double awareness clause for practitioners. This is specific to IVG and does not concern any other medical procedure. As a result, not only is abortion not yet fully a right in our country, but it also remains a separate medical act, different from all others. This double clause is therefore deeply stigmatizing. Yet it has only one reason to be: it was inscribed in the marble of the law as a political agreement, in order to facilitate the adoption of the Veil law. It no longer has any justification since abortion is now a right. The Committee on Social Affairs has enriched the text, based in particular on the work of the delegation to women's rights. The Socialist and Related Group contributed to this by tabling amendments aimed at extending the competence of midwives now entitled to perform IVG surgically.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u61	We will also propose to extend the legal deadline for drug GVI by two weeks, as was done during confinement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u62	All right, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u63	[[Applause on the SOC and EDS benches]] Let's build on these advances. Let us recall Simone Veil's words in this Chamber: "No woman uses her heart's joy in abortion. Forty-five later, I would like to add: they must be able to use it! [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and EDS groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let us also remember the fight of Gisèle Halimi. The Socialist and Related Group will once again take its full part in this commitment to women's rights. We will do so to ensure the effectiveness of the right to abortion, which is still fragile and insufficiently affirmed. That is why we will vote on the bill and, sir, the minister, we count on your support!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u64	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u65	On November 26, 1974, here, Simone Veil concluded her speech with these words: "I am not one of those who fear the future. Young generations sometimes surprise us in that they differ from us; We have raised them ourselves in a different way than we have been. But this youth is courageous, capable of enthusiasm and sacrifices like others. Let us trust him to preserve life's supreme value. » This ode to youth showed confidence in our ability to adapt to societal changes. Our debate is an opportunity to be worthy of this trust. It obliges us to be very vigilant about the changes that could be made to an historic text. Therefore, it is with great humility and caution that we will revise this text, which came into being in a particular historical context, which explains part of the measures contained therein. With caution, but also with rigour and calmness: we do not innocently upset this type of text, voted in pain, even invective and violence. Since then, the spirits have fortunately calmed down, and the lives of women have been greatly improved. From Greek antiquity to the 20th century, through the Middle Ages, historians find traces of abortive practices at all times. Each time, they are described as stories of women: women who suffer, women who suffer, women who practice, women who die... Beyond physiology, it is therefore a woman's story that of abortion, as if the sexual intercourse that led to pregnancy was ignored, and as if men did not want to see. It is women who have been under the pressure of fertility control at all times, and who face the consequences of unwanted pregnancies. It is a subject that has often been at the heart of burning debates in which men's fear of women acquiring an immense right to fatherhood and to their own bodies is easily deciphered: the history of the abortion is therefore inseparable from the history of women's rights and status, from the role that society gives them in relation to men, from the vision that one finally has of the body of women. "Never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will be enough to challenge women's rights," wrote Simone de Beauvoir. We must therefore be vigilant, men and women, so that this right conquered from high struggle is preserved and finds in France the conditions for its exercise, including in a context of crisis like the one we currently know. It must be reasserted that it is inviolable. In order for it to be fully a right, the conditions for its exercise must be clear and accessible, and it is on them that the bill tends to act. However, the proposed developments are not unanimous. That is why I would first of all like to point out that on this sensitive subject, which involves the most personal feelings, our group will not take a voting position; Everyone will decide according to their convictions. The issue of extending the time to access IVG has obviously found a new resonance with the Covid epidemic and the difficulties in accessing the care it has caused. Too many women have not been able to have access to abortion within the legal time frame, which is not acceptable. Is the extension of the legal deadline for access to the IVG to 14 weeks the most appropriate answer? Is it not likely to lead to endless debates? Setting and maintaining a firm limit to this deadline would seem to me a good thing to pacify this issue. In my personal capacity, I am in favour of a status quo, although an extension of the legal period may be considered temporarily in the event of a state of health emergency. In my view, this is a balanced position. While the conscience clause now applies to any medical act, the IVG, still regarded as an act "on its own", has its own provisions. In this bill, we are asked to approve the abolition of the double medical conscience clause. For my part, I am not in favour of it. Indeed, I believe that this clause of conscience contributes to the right balance established by the Veil law. The current legislation requires professionals who do not wish to practise this act to inform the woman without delay and to immediately inform her of the names of practitioners who may carry out this procedure. Without this clause, the only general clause would apply, and there would no longer be an obligation for the physician to guide patients, who should therefore find a practitioner himself. On the other hand, the general disqualification clause falls within the relationship between the doctor and patient, which does not make it possible to anticipate, within an institution, whether or not the professional will agree to practice an IVG. The double clause is therefore a guarantee of visibility, which reduces the risk of women's journey being broken. Too many disparities remain, depending on the age of women or their place of residence, and this must be addressed in order to ensure equal access to abortion for all. However, the bill, in my opinion too limited, does not include, for example, any commitment to the moratorium on the closure of CPEF – centres for family planning and education – nor does it take into account the need to launch information and prevention campaigns. However, these are significant barriers to access to GVI. The Veil law was a tremendous step forward for women, but also, more broadly, for our society. It marked the culmination of a long maturation, in which, among other women, Gisèle Halimi took part. Let us not wrestle with their struggle, let us be worthy of it, with calmness and determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u66	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u67	In the face of today's subject, the voluntary termination of pregnancy, we must show humility. The right to abortion, endorsed by the Veil Law, was the result of a difficult fight, and we must remain vigilant about its effectiveness. Since 1975, the framework for voluntary termination of pregnancy has changed considerably. In 2001, the Aubry Act extended the time limit for recourse to abortion until the end of the twelfth week of pregnancy; In 2013, the abortion became free for all women; Finally, in 2016, the minimum period for reflection of one week was abolished. As you said, Minister, according to a study by DREES – Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – published last month, 232,200 voluntary terminations of pregnancy were registered in France in 2019. More than a quarter of GVIs are carried out outside hospitals, in a liberal practice, a health centre or a family planning and education centre. The use of GVI varies from region to region, because the territories are not equipped in the same way. We see these variations because of a lack of suitable structures and a still failing prevention. Article 1 of the text aims to extend the legal period of recourse to voluntary termination of pregnancy from 12 to 14 weeks. This prolongation is motivated by the fact that every year 3000 to 4000 women go to countries that allow abortion after 12 weeks. The IDU and Self-employed group are unfavourable; he will propose an amendment to delete the article, considering that it is not by repelling the legal barriers that the approach of these thousands of women will be put to an end. We must allow them to overcome the difficulties of access to the IVG, by questioning the causes of exceeding the legal deadline. These are primarily due to poor prevention or difficulties women encounter in finding a practitioner near their home. We will also oppose this extension because, given the development of the foetus, a late abortion may pose a greater risk to the pregnant woman. During the committee review, a provision was made to allow midwives to perform surgical abortions up to the tenth week. We agree with the delegation's analysis of women's rights that "a greater number of practitioners qualified to practice abortion can only have beneficial effects on the effectiveness of access to abortion. However, we stress the need to clarify the status and training of midwives before giving them this new competence and responsibility. That is why we will propose that you adopt an amendment to delete this provision or at least one back-up amendment to ensure that this surgery is performed in a public or private health facility, in order to ensure that the patient receives quality care safely. You want to delete the legal awareness clause specific to the IVG. The argument put forward is that there is already a regulatory clause and that the existence of this legal clause is seen as a humiliation by women who resort to abortion. It should be recalled that the Code of Medical Ethics provides that a clause of conscience is applicable to all doctors for all medical acts. Physicians are subject to this code of ethics, which has the force of law. In addition, the Geneva Declaration, also known as the doctor's oath, provides that the doctor "exercises his profession with conscience and dignity, respecting good medical practice". For the sake of consistency, we wish to retain the current wording of article L. 2212-8 of the Code of Public Health. The National Medical Council defines the conscience clause as "the right to refuse to carry out a medical act, although authorized by law, but which [the doctor] would consider contrary to his own personal, professional or ethical convictions. The IVG is neither an annoyance nor an ordinary act of care; we wish to retain this freedom for the practitioner. Our group shares your willingness to make the IVG effectively accessible, but we differ on the method. You propose deletion measures to smooth the route: in Article 1b, you remove the 48-hour reflection period. But this provision exists because it guarantees a procedure that is not trivial. Using IVG is not an easy decision to make; That is why a period of reflection is necessary. Let us stop deleting all the time limits that guarantee a thoughtful decision-making! [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] In conclusion, the IDU and Independent Group considers that the tools presented in this bill will not improve access to abortion. The challenge is effective and effective prevention. We will propose an amendment to that effect. Only public health policies on contraceptive prevention and information, as well as on voluntary termination of pregnancy, will improve access to abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u68	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u69	We are addressing a serious subject, which affects the deepest intimacy of women who, still today, are not fully recognized by the Republic in their right to dispose of their bodies. The time to abort is too short, medical deserts are becoming more and more important and too many doctors refuse this practice. The covid-19 epidemic has exacerbated barriers to abortion and highlighted the shortcomings of our health care system. Between 3000 and 5000 women travel abroad each year; Many others are led to clandestine abortion or unwanted pregnancy. In referring to these tragedies, I am thinking of lawyer Gisèle Halimi, who signed the so-called manifesto of the 343 sluts, which played an undeniable role in the vote of the 1974 law. At the time, this lawyer defended women guilty of the offence of abortion and admitted that she herself had aborted in a final argument. His courage obliges us. At the end of her life, only a few months ago, she said: "I am still surprised that injustices to women do not provoke a general revolt. What would she have said about the indecent debates that arise about how a woman may or may not dress? "Never forget that a political, economic or religious crisis will be enough to challenge women's rights. These rights are never acquired. You'll have to stay vigilant for the rest of your life. This is what Simone de Beauvoir said, ardently defending the free choice of happy motherhood. In many countries – in Spain, Poland, the United States – we are witnessing setbacks in the right to abortion and contraception, to the point that the Council of State expressed concern about this in a 2017 report. For this reason, the La France insoumée group will submit an amendment calling on the Government to consider the possibility of establishing the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy as a constitutional right. Such a signal would be such as to affirm the freedom of women to dispose of their bodies. It would clearly endorse their right to consent or not to a pregnancy. From an anthropological point of view, he would devote gender equality so dear to this assembly. As the anthropologist Françoise Héritier has long documented and studied, male domination derives to a large extent from the concern that men have to govern procreation. In the same spirit, we will vote in favour of extending the legal deadline for recourse to the IVG from 12 to 14 weeks. Many countries have allowed it, with Sweden even providing for 18 weeks and the United Kingdom providing for 24 weeks. We will also support the deletion of the conscience clause specific to the IVG. This over-year and stigmatizing possibility that doctors have to deny a woman abortion without justification is not worthy of the Republic. It creates a break in equality, in addition to a break in the continuity of care with sometimes dramatic consequences. The medical profession does not have to challenge the law in the name of personal convictions. A few days ago, in Atton in my constituency, I opened Simone Veil Street in tribute to the politician who fought hard to legalize the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Nearly fifty years after the passing of the law bearing his name, it is time to remove the obstacles that persist and to pass tributes and beautiful words to deeds. We will therefore vote on all the amendments that provide better access to care for women, which have been hampered by medical desertification. We will support the provision adopted in committee, which we proposed ourselves, to allow midwives to perform surgical abortions during the first ten weeks of pregnancy. We very much hope that this measure will be supported in the Chamber, in the light of the recent parliamentary report by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Mrs Cécile Muschotti, who advocates it. The fight for equality between women and men is still long. They remain the first victims of rape, domestic violence and the world of work, where they account for 80 per cent of the precarious workers. They are still largely invisible and represent the vast majority of family caregivers. There would be a lot to say about the path we still have to go. This bill, of which I was co-signatory from its first tabling, leads us in the right direction. It fully targets the major barriers women face in abortion. As you will have understood, the La France group will support it in the name of the fundamental right of women to dispose of their bodies. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR, SOC, EDS, and LT groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I would like to read to you the last three verses of the famous anthem of women: "Only in our misfortune, women, one of the other ignored. They divided us, the women, and our separate sisters. Time of anger, women, our time has arrived. Let us know our strength, women, let us discover thousands! Let's recognize ourselves, women, let's talk, let's look at ourselves. Together we are oppressed, women, together, let us revolt! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u70	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u71	[[MM. Matthieu Orphelin and Guillaume Chiche applaud]] Forty-five years after the adoption of the law authorizing the voluntary termination of pregnancy, it must be recognized that access to abortion is still not fully guaranteed, which requires us to remain vigilant in order to prevent a decline in rights. Although Simone Veil's fight for women's rights has entered history, it remains relevant. Containment and the health crisis have brutally reminded us of these paths in which women often find themselves alone. I welcome the initiative of the rapporteur Albane Gaillot, who gives us the opportunity to work towards strengthening the right to abortion. The debate is not intended to question access to the IVG; It is now an acquired right and I am convinced that everyone here is convinced of it. Its sole objective is to improve the conditions for access to this right. I would like to stress the remarkable work done by the delegation on women's rights, notably by the rapporteurs, Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Cécile Muschotti. Their findings and recommendations are valuable tools and important support to inform national representation at the time of legislation. This trans-party work has allowed us to enrich the original bill during our debates in committee. The Commission adopted the text; I hope for a similar outcome in a public meeting. We are all aware of the difficulties that prevent the full exercise of the right to abortion. They are the result of those who oppose them voluntarily, in the name of personal or political convictions, and who regularly challenge women's right to dispose of their bodies. They are also the result of a lack of resources which leads to delays in interventions and in the care of women. IVG is a medical act that is not considered and is not highly valued, including economically, for institutions. In addition, there are significant territorial inequalities, which overlap with the general inequalities in access to care. These territorial inequalities have consequences on the conditions for access to abortion, on the timing of appointments, and also on the freedom of choice of method by women. They always affect the most vulnerable women, who sometimes consider solutions that are very dangerous for their own lives. Some are forced to travel long distances to find a doctor, with the risk of exceeding the legal deadline. It should be remembered that every year, 3000 to 5000 women leave for abortion abroad, because their time to resort to abortion is exceeded, an approach whose financial cost is not negligible. An extension of the appeal period would solve the problem of these women whose reasons are very different: late awareness, denial of pregnancy or complicated care. Beyond this issue, there is a need to remove the barriers to effective access to GVI. The removal of the dual consciousness clause, specific to the IVG, is a first step. If it were explained by the context surrounding the 1975 Act, the scheme has been considerably relaxed since then and is no longer justified. The so-called general awareness clause remains as it is and guarantees to all health personnel the possibility of refusing to practice an abortion. The extension of the competence of surgical IVGs to midwives, adopted in committee, is a second step. It is necessary, but must be accompanied by training and upgrading of the status of the latter. Finally, in accordance with the recommendations of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, the extension of the time limit for the use of IVG drugs in cities should be sustained. All these findings must alert us to the lack of resources devoted to women's sexual health. Budget constraints and the logic of financial profitability have led to the closure of many centres that practice IVG in recent years. As abortion is always a painful moment, it must remain a last resort. Campaigns to prevent and encourage contraception must be more numerous and better targeted, both against women and men. In several departments, family planning is concerned about the decline in subsidies allocated to it over the past few years, while prevention and support measures are essential. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, EDS, SOC, GDR and FI groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Each member of the Liberties and Territories Group will decide individually on these issues which fall within the scope of the intimate. For my part, as for a majority of the Members of the Group, I will vote for the bill and support all measures strengthening the right to abortion and improving the path of women, which is still difficult and painful.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u72	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u73	Forty-five years after the Veil law, the result of long feminist struggles, progress was gradually achieved in the field of abortion in Parliament to ensure greater effectiveness of the right to abortion: reimbursement by social security and then free of charge, extension of the time limit for recourse to twelve weeks and removal of the mention of distress in the law of 4 August 2014 for real equality between women and men. Do we think as long as we are at the end of these advances? That is the question before us today. No, not for us, not so many thousands of women are forced each year to abort outside the public health service. No, because barriers persist and there are even setbacks in access to abortion due to the deterioration of public service due to austerity. No, because aware of the fragility of the rights acquired by women, members of my group and other groups have called for the constitutionalization of the right to abortion. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, SOC and EDS groups]] No, because, during confinement, we have repeatedly called for an extension of the appeal period, since the barriers to abortion were greater during this period. During these long months, Minister, you have had all the time to consult and to remove any medical doubts about the extension of the deadline. [[Yolaine de Courson applauds]] No, because we know that, whatever the circumstances or the advance of a pregnancy, a woman will abort if she has decided. Failing to ignore it, by relying on the possibility of practicing an IVG abroad, is in no way a solution of withdrawal. This is a complicated approach, but especially inaccessible to many women because of its cost. As we know, financial difficulties are an additional constraint on abortion. "It is always the same class, that of poor women, economically and socially vulnerable, this class of the moneyless and the unrelations that is struck," said Gisèle Halimi in 1972. Thus, as it stands, French law leaves no alternative to the use of clandestine abortion to certain women. Let's say what it is: buying abortive pills on the internet, taking medication, beatings in the stomach and worse. Our group fully supports the bill, as well as the provisions adopted by amendment. At a time when many territories are suffering from a shortage of doctors and when many CPEFs and orthogenic centres have closed with budgetary restrictions, the removal of the specific awareness clause and the control of the offence of obstruction become more necessary than ever. Similarly, we welcome the removal of the 48-hour reflection period for women requesting psychosocial interview before the interruption, as well as the opening of the right for midwives to perform surgical abortions up to ten weeks of pregnancy. These proposals respond in part to the territorial inequalities that still exist in terms of abortion and which constitute an additional constraint in relation to legal deadlines. We will have other opportunities, during the review of the Finance Bill and the Social Security Financing Bill, to address the remaining territorial inequalities in access to abortion. Between the constraints of work, family, couple or mobility, access to abortion is often a race against time. That is why the extension of the deadline to 14 weeks is so decisive to better guarantee the use of IVG for all. Recall that the delay is modelled on the technique used: at twelve or fourteen weeks of pregnancy, it is still possible to perform an abortion by aspiration. However, it is necessary to hear the proposal of family planning to remove the notion of legal time limits, so that we will never again let a woman resort to abortion alone. At the same time, we will also have to continue to fight to promote and defend the work of family planning and education centres, which provide essential sexual and reproductive health information to young people, both girls and boys. It is also through information and education that abortion will cease, once and for all, to be a woman's problem or a shame, to become a subject shared by men and women. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI, SOC, EDS groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] I would like once again to commend the work of our colleague Albane Gaillot and to thank her for this bill. The fight for abortion is central to women's dignity and to overcome the despair caused by unwanted pregnancy and the shame of clandestine abortion. It is a fight to guarantee women's freedom from the State, society and the family. A fight to guarantee the freedom to choose whether to be a mother or not, according to his convictions, his living conditions and the context of the time. It is a struggle for women to have their bodies freely, the first condition of their emancipation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u74	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u75	Why this text? Two months after discussions on the bioethics bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u76	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u77	... here we are again to talk about a subject which, not only seems to me quite distant from the major concerns of our fellow citizens, but which will rekindle pain and which will unnecessarily reopen wounds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u78	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u79	So, to be quite clear, there is no question, as far as we are concerned, of calling into question the right to abortion, as it exists in the law in force.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u80	Happy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u81	But this right is framed and limited: it is based on provisions that it would be reasonable not to upset. This subject touches life and requires the utmost caution. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] Because abortion, "it's always a drama and it will always remain a drama," Simone Veil rightly said in her 1974 speech at the same forum. She already warned us: "The termination of pregnancy can only be early, because its physical and psychological risks, which are never zero, become too serious after the end of the tenth week. » Since then, the legal deadline has been extended to 12 weeks. By this text, you want to extend it to fourteen weeks, but many experts tell you: the more late abortion, the heavier and dangerous it is, both physically and psychologically. Really, I wonder: how can we celebrate Simone Veil for her law and, at the same time, betray everything that underlies her? [[Exclaims on FI banks]] [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and FI groups]] If your argument is that abortion is a real journey for the combatant, that hospitals are saturated, and that too long periods of care force women to travel abroad, then give the necessary resources to hospitals so that women, who have made the firm and definitive decision to resort to abortion, can do so in good conditions and in time in accordance with the law in force. But the truth, you know it as I do, ladies and gentlemen: this text is purely ideological!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u82	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u83	It aims to blow up the legal framework of the abortion, such as the amendment tabled in catimini, during the consideration of the draft law on bioethics in summer torpor, allowing abortion until the end of pregnancy on grounds of psychosocial distress. That's the truth! And you know that, ladies and gentlemen. It is for this reason that the text was drawn up without any prior consultation with the learned and competent societies, or even with the professional associations of the discipline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u84	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u85	Moreover, the National College of French Gynaecologists and Obstetricians, which was not consulted, openly expressed its disagreement on 1 October, stating that the text, far from improving women's rights, contributes to their deterioration. Agree with me that there is still a paradox in the fact that the time limit for recourse must be extended to 14 weeks, since many women are unable to abort within the current time limit, although they are well aware that more doctors would give up the practice if the time limit was extended. In other words, the measure you are defending would have an opposite effect to that expected. That is why you propose, in Article 2, to delete the clause of conscience, which nevertheless follows a constitutional principle. That's even what doctors, midwives and nurses look the most beautiful. In France, doctors are not on orders! They are not forced to engage in an act that runs counter to their personal or professional convictions. Finally, I am concerned about the way you deal with freedom of expression. An article added by the commission provides that the Government will submit to Parliament a report on the implementation of legislation relating to the offence of obstruction. All right! However, in the explanatory memorandum to the amendments to introduce it, we read that "the action of anti-IVGs on the Internet remains important. This sentence appeals to us! So, for things to be clear, freedom of expression, which is also a constitutional right, must allow an anti-IVG opinion to be expressed...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u86	Yes, but fake news is forbidden!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u87	What about the pill?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u88	... in the same way as an opinion in favour of the IVG. It cannot be otherwise. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and EDS groups]] In 2019, more than 232,000 abortions were registered, according to a report by the DREES: this is absolutely considerable! So, in conclusion, I believe that there is first and foremost an urgent need for reflection on prevention policies. It is not to be welcomed that the number of abortions is constantly increasing in a country where access to contraception is not expected to pose any particular difficulty. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] In any case, that is what a majority of French people want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u89	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u90	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u91	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u92	The purpose of the bill is to reaffirm women's right to abortion and to guarantee its effectiveness. Every year, 3000 to 4000 women are forced out of the French legal framework by going abroad for abortion. Why can we be forced to exceed the twelve-week deadline? Because we misinterpreted the bleeding that we took for menstruation, because we take a contraceptive and we don't imagine being pregnant, because we live in a territory where few practitioners do abortions and we have been misdirected during an appointment. For some women who have exceeded the deadline, it is very difficult to go abroad, because they are minors, because they have their children alone, or because they do not have the means to do so. What happens to these lonely and vulnerable people, who end up with an unwanted pregnancy? You speak of ethical considerations, but according to the WHO – World Health Organization – the viability of the foetus is set at 19 weeks of pregnancy. There is therefore no change in the nature of the embryo between twelve and fourteen weeks. You talk about the difficulty of doing certain technical gestures, but gynaecologists know how to do them, because they often do them in case of miscarriage within the time frame. I want to talk to you about the fundamental right of women to abortion: in 2020, we need to fluidize and secure access to abortion. I want to talk to you about accompanying women's health and our duty of benevolence towards those who may be our sisters, our daughters or our friends, who are in these distress situations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and EDS groups, as well as on a few benches of the FI group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote in favour of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u93	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u94	When examining the articles, a question of method is necessary: why does the subject of abortion lead us to debate so seriously and deeply? It requires the reconciliation of two principles: women's freedom, recognized in article 2 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights, on the one hand, and the protection of unborn life, also of constitutional value, on the other. Do we agree on this? Madam rapporteur, Mr Minister, it is clear that you voluntarily forget the second dimension, the protection of unborn life. However, it is at the basis of the definition of the conditions governing the practice of voluntary termination of pregnancy. If we forget this, we adopt the position of the Director of Family Planning, who wants to remove any mention of a deadline – I have heard that some colleagues are already claiming it. Why set conditions for abortion? Because the freedom of the woman is not in question alone; Protection of unborn life is also a principle. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I do not enter into the debate as to whether or not the embryo is a person: we will not solve a question that has been working with humanity for centuries and that will continue to arise. If women's freedom and the protection of unborn life are the two principles to be reconciled, we must draw the peak line as accurately as possible. Before I go further, I repeat my question: do you agree with this definition of the terms of the debate? It is important that we share this humanistic view. If this is not the case, all boundaries are crossed and unconditional abortion becomes possible. You may want to, as activists, but that's not the way the Republicans want to get involved in.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u95	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u96	[[Murmures on the benches of the EDS and FI groups]] Some policy initiatives serve the goals they intend to pursue. Where am I talking about? You have to say it. Personally, I like to repeat that I have no certainty on such a subject, but, as a Member of Parliament, a public official elected for twenty-five years, I believe that it is my duty to fight, alongside many of you, for the abortion to remain a right, which we will defend, in particular by protecting the access of all women to this right. [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Where are we talking about? We speak as legislators. As representatives of popular sovereignty, MEPs would like to find a homothetistic relationship between what society wants and their decisions. In this case, this is not the case. It may happen that majorities emerge in a country without a parliamentary majority to express them; There may also be a majority in Parliament in favour of a position that deeply divides the country. This is the case with this text. [[Exclaims on the banks of the EDS and LaREM groups]] The discrepancy is not due to substantive reasons. We could join in the work that has been done remarkably by the delegation on women's rights. It concerns the form in which we deal with this subject which is so fundamental to society: a parliamentary niche, a few hours of debate on a Thursday morning, about 100 Members in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u97	It's a year's work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u98	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u99	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u100	I also hear the division being expressed by voices trying to cover mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, let us allow Mr Mignola to speak, and he has a few seconds to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u102	He's not expressing himself, he's provoking!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u103	[[The rapporteur protested]] [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Expressing ourselves in these circumstances prevents us from also mentioning the budgetary dimension of this right and the organisation of the framework within which society has placed it. Whether we choose 12 or 14 weeks, we will have to increase the means of family planning and social workers, but today we are not in a position to adopt budgetary provisions. In these circumstances, precisely because I will defend the IVG all my life, I do not agree with the adoption of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u104	[[Smile on the benches of the EDS group]] [[Exclaims on the banks of the Dem and EDS groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like in particular to address Mr Guillaume Chiche, who seems to me to be in full shape and very enthusiastic, and I would like to point out that the time during which you interrupt the speakers is obviously not counted from their speaking time. Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u105	I welcome the work of the delegation on women's rights on the subject and thank Albane Gaillot for defending this text at this very moment. I know that this is the result of a personal commitment, not a political calculation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u106	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u107	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] I will address my arguments rather to the right of the House: just as there is never a comfort IVG, there will never be a comfortable vote on the IVG. I know how sensitive the subject is. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] We are talking about a right forged in the blood and tears of women, and thanks to the political courage of a particular woman, supported by politicians of great courage as well. To convince you, I could say that if Simone Veil sat in this assembly, she would probably be somewhere on our benches, and suggest you put our steps in her own.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u108	What a recovery! A little dignity, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u109	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur and Mr Erwan Balanant also applaud]] [[Applause on the benches of the EDS and SOC groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I will not use this argument in favour of a legal argument. I am speaking to the responsible legislator that we are: abortion is a right. To exist, a right must not only be voted on in Parliament, it must evolve and be exercised equally by all members of society. However, the delegation to women's rights had shown that equal access to abortion was not guaranteed. Article 1 does not tend to provoke a revolution but to make a reasonable adjustment. It tends to increase the deadline for recourse to the IVG not by five weeks, with a view to adopting the Swedish model, or by ten weeks, to imitate that of the Netherlands, but by only two weeks, in order to rely on Belgium and Spain. Let us act for rights and equality – we guarantee the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u110	[[Matthieu Orphelin and Delphine Bagarry applaud]] I should like to recall that statements on the articles are limited to two minutes. The day is dedicated to a parliamentary niche, and we have a lot to discuss. We will therefore scrupulously enforce the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u111	[[Murmures on several groups' banksLaREMetDem]] I welcome the initiative of Albane Gaillot and all those who supported the bill. His examination is good news. I note that the work of conviction has been fruitful since the majority group seems to adopt the principle of an extension of the deadline –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u112	Thanks to the delegation, who defended it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u113	...if I have heard the words of one of her representatives. I hope that this is the case, because we must get out of this debate from the top. This is a small change, but it is a great step forward for many women who have to leave France and pay dearly for the right to abortion. Every year, between 3000 and 5000 women will have abortions abroad. Mr. Minister, you have alleged a time problem, saying that there is a lack of hindrance in adopting the text that is intended to extend the time for recourse to the IVG.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u114	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u115	However, we have such a setback, since other countries allow women to abort within a period of well over 12 weeks, such as the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Sweden and others in Europe and elsewhere. Then, the public debate had time to deploy. Feminists have long claimed the extension of the deadline, often beyond fourteen weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u116	How much?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u117	We need to discuss how many weeks to wear it, but to adopt the 14-week one, it is enough to observe the reality and to see that many women use abortion. However, there is inequality between the territories: some live in medical deserts, where it is difficult to go to family planning or to find a doctor who practices abortion. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] I will conclude by stressing that we must vote for political reasons. The question is not only a matter of morals or personal conscience; It is eminently political.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u118	We agree, it's political!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u119	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u120	[[Mr Christian Hutin protested]] [[Protests on the benches of the EDS group]] I do not know why, in our country, when we debate bioethics, we fail to understand what we do not see. In this case, that the embryo becomes fetuses at a pivotal period, twelve weeks of pregnancy. This level was not determined by chance. One may wonder if the embryo is already a human life; Some think so, others don't. The question becomes more complicated when the foetus measures more than ten centimetres and moves so well, that after a few weeks, the mother feels her movements; and that this foetus has a skull, which will have to be crushed to extract it from the uterus of the woman who asks for a late abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u121	Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u122	Listen to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u123	He's a doctor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u124	You'll never know how women feel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u125	Be nice to your colleagues: he was in the Republic on his way six months ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u126	[[Protests on the benches of the SOC, GDR, FI and EDS groups, and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These are biological realities that the French must know! To deliberate in their soul and conscience, they must know what only a few doctors see, looking through the woman's body. This is not just the right of a woman to dispose of her body; It is the union of a man and a woman, a co-responsible act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u127	Listen to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u128	[[Xavier Breton applauds]] [[Protests on many benches]] We cannot draw up accounts, an apothecary, from false benchmarks in foreign countries, which accept the inacceptable, when we claim to be the country of ethics, science and medicine! We must calm down our tendency to adopt pseudo-progressive Anglo-Saxon models. The agenda is followed by a proposal for a law disfiguring human nature and a text that concerns itself with the animal condition! Honestly, where are we going?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u129	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u130	Today we are taken hostage by this bill, which I do not know what American campus, inspired by I do not know which supposedly progressive theses that infest our parliamentary debate. I am against extending the length of time I have to resort to IVG.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u131	[[Smile]] We got it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u132	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We need to keep the current framework, sufficient and necessary – I support its principle, but let us stick to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u133	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u134	The agitation in the House clearly shows that this bill is a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u135	The original walkers are the most opposed to the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u136	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] It would be good, and democratic – unless we are no longer in democracy – if everyone, whether he agrees with the text or is opposed to it, like Mr Son-Forget, could express what he has to say, as he should in a rule of law, without being hushed. Beyond the IVG, I want to talk a bit about politics, because the place is also suitable. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] I learned this morning – Aurore Bergé said on the TV sets – that the La République en marche group will vote to extend the deadline for recourse to the IVG.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u137	They're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u138	[[Smile on the left benches. – Protests on many benches of the LaREM group]] That's what was just said! Let it be clear: all those who voted for Emmanuel Macron in 2017, atheists, freemasons, religious, got screwed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u139	Yeah, they got screwed, you're told by a girlfriend!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u140	Let it be clear: this measure was not in its programme!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u141	She is the guardian of the temple of La République on the march!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u142	And we're going to talk about trust! How do you want the citizens of this country to have confidence in their representatives, when they are not sold in the programme what actually happens after the elections? I hope that up there, as in the castle, my words will be heard. I call on all those who do not want to be wrong to observe what is happening today!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u143	We come to the amendments. I would point out that only one speaker from each group can speak on the articles since the reform of our Rules of Procedure, which we voted collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u144	Not us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u145	[[Smile]] I was speaking globally, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u146	This is a generally negative reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u147	Let us leave aside the subjects of tension that are not on the agenda. I have before me nine identical amendments, Nos 1, 7, 11, 21, 34, 63, 71, 81 and 85. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u148	It must be said and said again, there is no question here of making any judgment on women who resort to abortion. Their misfortune, their distress, calls us to the greatest of restraints. This clarification, it seems to me necessary to return to the spirit of Simone Veil's speech in 1974. Indeed, your bill tends to trivialize an act that Simone Veil wanted everything, except banal. I would like to quote it, since many here claim to be from the old resistor: "abortion must remain the exception, the ultimate recourse for situations without a way out [...] No woman resorts to abortion with joy of heart. All you have to do is listen to the women. It is always a tragedy and it will always remain a tragedy. » [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, EDS, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] [[Same movements]] [[Exclaims on EDS banks]] I suggest you do one thing, one thing: go on the internet and see what a 14-week-old fetus looks like in her mother's belly. It's a baby! Is there a problem? Yeah, it's a baby. He can fold his fingers, shake his fist, suck his thumb. Yes! And you really think extending the deadline won't change anything? The arguments put forward today are the same as those heard in 2001. Almost twenty years later, nothing has changed, proof that the lengthening of deadlines will not change anything. We have to work upstream.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u149	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u150	Madam rapporteur, you are proposing to extend the deadline for access to the IVG by two weeks, allowing it to take place at the end of not the twelfth but the fourteenth week, that is, the sixteenth week of amenorrhea. It's technically possible, but is it humanly desirable? It is regrettable that this sensitive issue is not addressed in the context of the ongoing review of bioethics laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u151	It's not about bioethics, it's about the effectiveness of rights!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u152	Mr. Minister, thank you for agreeing to refer the matter to the National Ethics Advisory Council, because we are asking ourselves not only about the protection of women's health, but also about the complexity of technical actions. The bill does not address the issue of prevention, whereas we should agree to avoid, as far as possible, this so complicated act for those who are forced to resort to it, this act which remains a tragedy, as Simone Veil had acknowledged. Would it be that neither the balance nor the spirit of the 1975 law, which many recall, would no longer be respected? Contrary to what is alleged in the explanatory memorandum, medical and scientific arguments may be ethically opposed to the extension of the time limit for recourse to the IVG. Let me talk about this living being and ask bioethical questions. Twelve or fourteen weeks, is it the same? These two weeks seem important, since it is at this time that the transition from the embryo to the foetus occurs. It therefore seems difficult to compare a 12-week embryo with a 14-week-old fetus, whose main organs are formed and whose chances of being able to detect sex are 99%. In addition, after 12 weeks, the medical gesture is no longer the same and the protocol of the IVG needs to be revised, taking into account the significant risks that women face. According to some practitioners, extending the appeal period from 12 weeks to 14 weeks is therefore a technical difficulty. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why we propose the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u154	This is not the right answer to legitimate questions about territorial and generational gaps. We need more support and more prevention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u155	[[Applause on the benches of the EDS group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very clear: statements will now be strictly limited to two minutes. If everyone exceeds their time of twenty or forty seconds, it is the group Ecology democracy solidarity that will suffer at the end of the day, which would not be appropriate. We must respect the rights of the groups in the days of parliamentary niche. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u156	[[Applause among non-attached Members. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] I agree with Mr Bazin's argument. But I am astonished by the climate in which these debates take place and by the voices we have heard when colleagues such as Mr Son-Forget, Mrs Chill or Mrs Ménard express their position in their own way. It's amazing! Mrs. Ménard asks if you went to the internet to see what a 14-week-old fetus looks like, and there are screams! What are you afraid of? [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] That is why you want to remove the conscience clause and reinforce the offence of obstruction: you do not support free expression. I ask you again, Madam rapporteur, Mr Minister: is abortion for you only a matter of women's freedom, freedom that must of course be taken fully into account, or is there also a question of the protection of unborn life? As long as you can't say these words: "there's a protection of unborn life," well, it's all open! You have already voted for the extension of the IMG – medical interruption of pregnancy – up to nine months in second reading of the bioethics law, and soon we will see the IVG without delay, which some already defend on these benches, and which is defended by the family planning. We don't want it! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] That's your calculation. Don't be hypocrites, assume. Have the strength, the honesty to admit it, or then recognize that the question of the protection of unborn life arises and that we must find a necessarily difficult, painful balance between two principles. In that case, let's talk about it calmly. And above all, don't call when we speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u157	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u158	Sometimes the law must only be changed with a trembling hand. We are at one of these moments: to make a decision as heavy as the extension of the time limit for recourse to abortion from twelve to fourteen weeks, we must be informed. As you said, Minister, we do not yet have the opinion of the National Ethics Advisory Board. However, reading it would be the first thing to do. We are not sufficiently enlightened. We would also have liked this debate to be organised around the issue of ethics. Today, on the contrary, you favour one of the dimensions of this debate, forgetting that we must also concern ourselves with the unborn child. You want to cross a new red line, and you're going to create deep cleavages. Our fellow citizens are by far not in favour of the measure you wish to take. Also ask Professor Israel Nisand, who is nothing less than the president of the National College of French Gynaecologists and Obstetricians. It clearly states that it does not want to go in this direction, like almost all professionals. There is a profound change of nature between twelve and fourteen weeks: at fourteen weeks, "the head of the foetus is boned and must be crushed. The gesture itself is therefore terrible for the one who does it and for the patient."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u160	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] "In the College, I put this two-week extension to the vote four times, and each time it was denied to 100% of the voters. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u161	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 34.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u162	Article 1 aims to extend the legal time limit for the voluntary termination of pregnancy from 12 to 14 weeks in order to provide a solution to the 3000 to 4000 women who are forced to go abroad each year for abortion. However, if we resume the debate on the 2001 law, which extended the legal deadline from 10 to 12 weeks, there was already a question of responding to the 5000 women who went abroad every year to abort. The removal of legal barriers will therefore not put an end to the approach of thousands of women who leave abroad. In addition, from a biological point of view, a fetus is much more developed at fourteen weeks than at twelve, and abortion can pose far greater risks to pregnant women. On page 63 of the information report submitted on 16 September 2020 by the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, which deals with access to abortion, we learn that from 12 weeks onwards, the medical act changes. I'm reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u163	I read it, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u164	"A number of practical problems related to the implementation of the extension of the legal deadline were raised during the hearings of your rapporteurs. Dr Philippe Faucher, obstetrician gynaecologist and president of the network between the city and the hospital for orthogeny – REVHO – explains that from twelve weeks of pregnancy, the method of instrumental abortion is no longer the same: it requires "a different protocol. Don't fool us. The solution is not to extend the legal deadline but to improve prevention and facilitate access to abortion. As underlined in the Court of Auditors' report on doctors and school health personnel of April 2020, we need to strengthen prevention, in particular through school nurses, whose mission is to provide students with information, in particular on sexuality education and contraception. The IDU and independent group recognizes the need to help women in distress, but we are convinced that the proposed measure is not adequate. That is why we propose to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u165	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u166	I have also tabled a deletion amendment. The argument put forward to justify the extension of the deadline is that women, having exceeded the legal deadline, would be forced to go abroad for an abortion. However, the figure advanced – 3000 to 5000 women each year – is the same as the figure announced when the delay was extended from 10 to 12 weeks of pregnancy in 2001. This proposal is also based on the idea that women would have had difficulty accessing abortion during confinement; But there's no evidence. In fact, we do not have reliable and scientific analysis, nor do we have the figures, nor the reasons why a number of women would go abroad. Yet these data could shed light on the possible shortcomings of public policies and preventive policies to be pursued. Abortion late, at more than three months of pregnancy, is very violent for women and medically, abortion is made more complex due to the larger size of the fetus. Where does the fourteen-week limit come from? Why not sixteen or nineteen? The answer was given to us by our colleague Elsa Faucillon during our last debate on the evaluation of public policies on access to abortion. According to her, "the lengthening of this period is based on the abortion technique used; 12 or 14 weeks of pregnancy, it is still possible to perform an abortion by aspiration". But what is a child at fourteen weeks? What is an aspiration abortion? I know it bothers you, but I'm asking you, what are you afraid of? At 14 weeks, the baby measures almost 14 centimetres for almost 100 grams. The proportions of his body harmonize, the skeleton solidifies, the frame forms. He can bend his fingers, shake his fists, or suck his thumb. He also began to give a few blows, which were still too weak to be felt. As for aspiration abortion, it is an operation entirely carried out under general anaesthesia, which consists of crushing the frame, shredding the foetus and aspirating the remains.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u168	Often, the lining of the uterus is controlled with a curette, i.e. a small spoon-shaped instrument, and possible residues of the foetus are removed. Don't let us know, then...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u169	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor to support Amendment No. 71.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u170	Contrary to what is alleged in the explanatory memorandum, medical and scientific arguments are sufficient to oppose this prolongation. Indeed, these two weeks are important, since this is the moment when the passage from the embryo to the foetus occurs. Rapid and significant physiological changes occur at this time, and it is possible to identify many of the characteristics of the developing child. The main organs are formed. At 12 weeks, one speaks of an embryo whose cranial-caudal distance is 6.5 centimetres, where one sees only the germinal bud. At fourteen weeks, we are facing a fetus, of which we have 99% chance of detecting sex. Hearing is developed, as is neural connections. The incidence of the act itself is also important: for an IVG performed after 12 weeks, the medical gesture is no longer the same and the protocol needs to be revised because of the significant risks that women face. Finally, there is no study showing that late abortions are the result of legal delays in access to abortion. It is essential to strengthen prevention. Abortion is not a means of contraception, but a particularly challenging situation for women. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] For all these reasons, it is not appropriate to extend the time for access to the GVI by two weeks. That is why we propose the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u171	On the identical amendments Nos 1, 7, 11, 21, 34, 63, 71, 81 and 85 to delete Article 1, the Republican Group has asked for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u172	Under no circumstances is there any question of reverting to the right to abortion. A woman must be able to decide if and when she wants to become a mother. However, the subject of abortion is necessarily linked to medical considerations. Indeed, at fourteen weeks of pregnancy, the risk of complications is far greater than at twelve weeks, which is likely to endanger the health of the woman who wishes to have an abortion. In this respect, the High Health Authority states that "the possible use of local anesthesia requires a very good mastery of the technique of expansion and evacuation". According to the general practitioner Cloé Guicheteau, who practises in the Family Planning and in the voluntary abortion centre of the CHU of Rennes, "up to twelve weeks of amenorrhea, the IVG does not pose a technical problem, it is a very easy and fast gesture. At seven, eight or nine weeks, [GVI requires] one to three minutes of suction. After that, the duration increases a little. But between 12 and 14 weeks, there is a technical difficulty. That is why, according to Professor Nisand, president of the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français, this extension of the deadline to fourteen weeks "risks to further decrease the number of practitioners who carry out IVGs". [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these fundamental reasons, which you yourself have noted, Minister, it seems preferable to give hospitals the means to be able to manage all GVI in a timely manner, rather than to extend the deadline to 14 weeks. It is our responsibility to prevent, communicate and act on the reasons for using GVI; It's a moral obligation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u173	I call Mrs Genevard to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u174	There are laws in the history of this house, which are totemic laws. The law on voluntary termination of pregnancy is one of them. Obviously, every time you touch it, it gets a lot of feedback. In this respect, I believe that we need to be very cautious. Mr Minister, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this is a highly ethical issue. I therefore do not understand why you did not seek the advice of the National Ethics Advisory Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u175	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u176	Why have we not conducted hearings on the issue of extending the time limit for the use of the IVG, which could have been attended by interested parliamentarians? In this way, we would have been able to make an informed decision because, as my colleagues have said, the transition from the embryo to the foetus is an eminently ethical subject. But you do not treat him to the extent of his importance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u177	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u178	In conclusion, I would like to address an issue that has nothing to do with the purpose of the text we are considering this morning. Indeed, your bill is written in inclusive writing. I remind you that Prime Minister Édouard Philippe...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u179	Future President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u180	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on several benches of the LaREM groups, Dem and Agir ens]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... had issued a circular inviting that inclusive writing should not be used in official texts and in particular in legislative texts. The law must be clear and intelligible; inclusive writing is not. It is therefore appropriate not to give in to this mortiferous mode for the French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u181	What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u182	I will try to be clear, precise and concise in response to each of the points that have been raised. But first of all, I wish that in our remarks, we should be careful not to blame women. Thank you for taking care of it. For my part, I believe that this is not an ethical subject, but the effectiveness of the law...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u183	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] I understand that our friends in the band The Republicans have had to finish their seminar, as there are many of them entering our Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u184	It's small!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u185	It is true that there are fewer people in the Republic on the move...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u186	I would ask those who are taking their places to do so with due respect for the speaker, Mrs Albane Gaillot. I invite you to listen to it in the same way that other Members are listening to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u187	So I repeat my point. Why lengthen the deadline? As I said during my presentation of the text, between 3000 and 5000 women go abroad every year to abort, because the legal deadlines are exceeded in France. They do not deliberately choose to arrive late. They're women who don't have a choice...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u188	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u189	What do you mean, it has nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u190	...who have experienced a denial of pregnancy, who are victims of domestic violence, or who are adolescent. Secondly, no, extending deadlines is not an endless race. When we went from ten to twelve weeks in 2001, however, women did not change their behaviour. They did not enter the IVG route later. Thus, we know that it is between 1000 and 2000 women who could benefit from this measure, which I applaud. What now is the technical issue? I am not going to scream at what I heard about the head crash, and I have obviously read Mr Nisand's words in the press. Whether the abortion is performed at ten, eleven, twelve or fourteen weeks of pregnancy, know that it is always the technique of aspiration that is practiced and that it involves dilaceration and extraction of fragments. The cannula used is actually larger, since the foetus is larger. But I repeat, the technique used is the same. It is true that the practitioners themselves can express their opposition to this provision, because there is a defect in the formation of gynaecologists-obstetricians: we train poorly to the instrumental IVG. This brake should therefore be removed. I also recognize that the bill does not address all the issues. I have heard the arguments on prevention and sexuality education: amendments to this effect will be tabled during the consideration of the finance bill. With regard to physiological changes during pregnancy, remember that the heart begins to beat as early as three weeks, while the human form of the foetus develops at eight weeks. As for the identification of the child's sex, information can only be obtained after 15 weeks of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u191	The rapporteur also has only two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u192	Mr. President, please preside!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u193	[[Applause on the benches of the EDS group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, and after consultation with associations, practitioners and health professionals, I consider it appropriate to extend the time limit during which it is possible to cover an IVG from 12 to 14 weeks. I believe that this is a balance between fundamental rights and ethical considerations. My personal opinion, as well as that of the committee, is therefore unfavourable on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u195	The question of the time limit for performing an abortion is not new, nor is it treated in a uniform way within the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u196	It didn't escape us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u197	Seeing the bill coming and before the debate is imminent, and although I am aware of the excellent parliamentary report that has been drafted on this issue, I have questioned a number of gynaecologists whose commitment to the right to abortion is known to me and who, for many of them, regularly carry out abortions. I asked them about the various issues raised by the bill. On some subjects, one can have one's personal convictions, which may result from prejudice – and no matter whether they are rather naturalistic or rather progressive. That's why I wanted to question those who practice and know, which is more of a good thing to inform a decision to be made. Beyond the very firm position of Professor Nisand, who was recalled, it was all the members of the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français who were questioned three times by his president on this issue of extending the deadline. Although practicing abortion and defending the right to abortion, the members of this college of teachers of gynaecology and obstetrics replied that, for reasons on which I will come back in a moment, they were against it. I've heard some gynaecologists say, "Great! Extending from 12 to 14 weeks the period during which abortion is possible will prevent 400 or 500 women from having to travel to Spain or the Netherlands to have access to an abortion later. The figure of 1000 to 2000 for the number of women who might be affected by the measure seems to me to be very questionable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u198	There would be 1200.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u199	By definition, we have no idea. According to what has come back to me from the territories, we would talk about a few hundred women here, even if the stake is of any size, regardless of the number of women involved. The gynaecologists I interviewed also told me that practicing an IVG at fourteen weeks of pregnancy is possible, but that the technique is then more sensitive, because the cannula used is larger and the gesture to be made more complicated. Other gynaecologists have told me that if they are currently performing abortions up to twelve weeks of pregnancy, they will not do so at fourteen weeks. It's their right, their conscience clause allows them. [[Protests on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups]] And gynaecologists have explained to me that the difficulty that exists today is to recruit gynaecologists-obstetricians capable of performing abortions by aspiration between ten and twelve weeks of pregnancy. By extending the period from 12 to 14 weeks, we fear that it will lead to demotivation and that tomorrow it will be more difficult to ensure that these doctors continue to practice IVG. A number of them could throw the sponge away.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u200	It's not about gynaecologists, it's about women!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u201	This argument is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u202	Mrs. Autain, could we listen to the Government's opinion in serenity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u203	[[Protests on the benches of the FI and SOC groups. – Exclaims on several benches]] Mrs. Autain, please stop questioning us at all times as soon as you disagree. Accept the democratic debate, or do not participate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u204	Oh, no, no! Moral lessons are enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u205	You, too, Mr. Hutin, are always screaming. Can you see me screaming? I simply put forward arguments for and against the measure, while telling you, as I have already explained, that the Government will give a wisdom opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u206	We're far from wisdom!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u207	Mr. Hutin, what are your screams?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, let us be aware that we are dealing with an important subject and that spectators are watching us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u209	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u210	They want to know our appreciation, that we have a high level of vision, and that our discussions are conducted in dignity. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] For the time being, only the minister has the floor, and then those who wish to speak will have the opportunity to do so – and I imagine they will prefer to be listened to with respect and benevolence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u211	In fact, when the delay was extended from 10 to 12 weeks, it was found that there was difficulty in recruiting gynaecologists who would perform GVI. This resulted in a decrease of 30 per cent. In this regard, I understand that one of the solutions proposed in return is to allow midwives and maiuticians to realize instrumental IVGs, even though they do not now have the right to do so. However, as the text adopted in committee says, these instrumental abortions will only be possible up to ten weeks of pregnancy. The problem of GVI between week 10 and week 12 and, more importantly, between week 12 and week 14 is therefore not resolved. If I cannot truly exercise neutrality, because on such a subject it is impossible, I am nevertheless, on behalf of the Government, in favour of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u212	Wisdom, but rather against it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u213	That is why I allow myself, not to hold a debate with myself, but to present the difficulties that both of us can bring to me. The best can be the enemy of good...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u214	There you go. So it's not a wisdom advice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u215	...and I don't know if extending the time to resort to abortion will not have any impact on actual access to abortion. If I referred the matter to the National Ethics Advisory Committee, which had never been done on this issue of extending the time limit from 12 to 14 weeks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u216	Good thing you're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u217	...it's not about embryonic status between twelve and fourteen weeks of pregnancy – don't get me wrong about that. I have grasped it because of the potential health risks to the woman who will have between 12 and 14 weeks of pregnancy, as this has potential ethical and bioethical consequences. It was in this capacity that I referred to the CCNE, to whom I asked to give me its conclusions in November so as to see more clearly. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem, UDI-I, Active ens and LR groups]] As parliamentarians, you are by definition totally free to vote in the way you want. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in my view, it would be a precedent to vote on a text before having the result of the referral to the authorities which are supposed to enlighten us on the subject in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u218	A wisdom advice, really?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u219	I am telling you this in a way that is all the more embarrassing because it is a matter of timing and because I do not express, on the substance, a position unfavourable to the extension of the deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u220	Ah! Still!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u221	I repeat, I am not against the extension. Only, as a minister, I need to be informed by the health authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u222	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u223	I need this informed opinion to know the inherent risks for women, what will be the consequences of an extension of time on actual access to abortion and whether to expect a collapse in the number of abortion gynaecologists, so as not to have to tell you, in a year's time, that the number of abortions is in decline. I have no guarantees either in one direction or in the other. This is the ambivalence of the choice you will have to make in a few minutes. And that is why these questions of form – which remain important – lead the Government to give a wisdom opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u224	Here's a long argument to give a wisdom opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u225	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u226	[[Mr Philippe Gosselin exclaimed]] It is not a matter of forcing practitioners to practice abortions for up to fourteen weeks, minister. Some will be against it and will take advantage of the awareness clause that we wish for the general rest, while others will accept it. On the other hand, you did refer the matter to the National Ethics Advisory Committee a few days ago, but we asked for the proposed extension throughout the confinement, including through letters and interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u227	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u228	Perhaps it would then have been necessary to bring the Committee before us so that we could have its conclusions in order to feed into today's debate. However, I welcome the referral to the Committee; Moreover, the parliamentary shuttle will enable a calm debate to take place at second reading. In any event, it is essential that we move on to this first course. You're talking about 400 to 800 women, minister: no! The figures given to us by our Spanish interlocutors range from 800 to 1000!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u229	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u230	They are in the same proportions in Belgium and the Netherlands. The numbers are therefore much higher than those you quote. It is true that we do not have accurate statistics...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u231	It's in the order of thousands!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u232	[[Applause on the benches of the SOC, EDS, GDR, FI groups and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...but the Spanish authorities gave us theirs. That is why we want to include the extension of time limits in the law so that women – they were only 400 – benefit from the right to abortion, which today is not one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u233	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u234	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM, Dem, EDS, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] [[Same movements]] Let's shape the debate. With regard to the methodology, the delegation for women's rights had worked on the subject for 18 months; Its report is the most time consuming and has relied on the largest number of hearings. I could give you a list of auditionees – colleges, orders, all actors have been heard. Professor Nisand, of course, chairs the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français, but there are in France other teachers of gynecology who are in favour of extending the time limits and who want the IVG to be a real right in France. I could quote from Professor City, from the Necker Hospital, that the delegation to women's rights is taking over: today, abortion is a right that is tolerated but not guaranteed. Let's say: there are teachers of gynaecology who are supportive of women's rights and concerned about their respect. [[Same movements]] I'm going to ethics. I note that the Government has indeed seized the CCNE, but I recall that the ethical issue, ladies and gentlemen, was decided in 1974. Today, abortion is no longer an ethical issue, but a matter of women's rights! The aim is to ensure that this right is no longer merely a totemic right, but a real right, which is embodied in women's lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u235	Interventions must not exceed two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u236	Yes, Mr. President, two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u237	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and EDS groups]] Mrs. Rixain has 15 seconds left. It happens, Mr Cordier, that in the place where I am, I have an advantage over you: the chronometer is in front of me. Instead of asking me, trust those who have the instruments of control to organize the debate as it should be.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u238	I conclude, therefore: it is true that the delays have been extended over the history of the IVG, but never have these prolongations led to any increase in the number of IVGs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u239	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u240	What's the point?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u241	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u242	[[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups and on the benches of the EDS, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] Let us be reasonable and reshape the debate: today it is a matter of making abortion an accessible and real right for all women in our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u243	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u244	We, on my side of the House, have expressed a clear position with calm and serenity: there is no question of going back to the fundamental right of women to a voluntary termination of pregnancy...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u245	You were against it at the time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u246	...and none of the many advances voted since 1975 to guarantee it. Today, we cannot accept a bill extending the time limit for recourse to the IVG from 12 to 14 weeks: it is an ill-prepared text on the form and, for all those who sit on my side of the House, dangerous on the substance. As my colleagues have said, it is dangerous for women, but it is also dangerous in the light of history. Simone Veil has been widely mentioned, but no one can bring her back to this House! No one here is able to say exactly what she was thinking.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u248	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the groups Agir ens, Dem and LaREM]] She said it perfectly in this rostrum in 1974. Today we can respect and admire Simone Veil, but we cannot speak for him!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u249	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u250	I thank you all for these exchanges, ladies and gentlemen, and I thank the delegation for women's rights for the long work done. However, I remain reserved as regards the extension of the deadline, even though I am sensitive to territorial inequalities – in committee, Mrs Goulet mentioned in particular the Nièvre, where only one doctor practices abortion. I am also aware of the late abortion of women in precarious situations, of the fact that 5,000 women go abroad every year for this intervention and of the need for women to be able to abort in serene conditions. In my view, however, there is an ethical problem. Between twelve and fourteen weeks, the fetus grows five to ten centimetres. In 2001, the deadline was increased from 10 to 12 weeks; Now it is proposed to increase it from twelve to fourteen weeks. How far will we go? We can ask ourselves. [[Applause on several benches of the groups LaREM, LR and Agir ens, as well as on a few benches of the group LaREM]] Finally, the correlation between the standard of living and the number of abortions performed challenges me. In 2020, according to a DREES management study, the probability of abortion is 38% lower among women in the first income decile compared to those with median income; On the other hand, it is 40% higher among women in the last income decile. When asked about the extension of the deadline in 2001, the CCNE considered that the issue of the deadline should "reinvigorate the questions about the circumstances and factors that lead more than 200,000 women per year to wish to terminate their pregnancy".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u251	That was 20 years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u252	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u253	Today, in 2020, we are talking about improving the text proposed here by Simone Veil in 1974. This is an improvement that we want to bring to women in distress, who are experiencing family problems and difficulties in deciding. We suggest that they think for another two weeks. This is fundamental for these women whose distress is incredible. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC, GDR, FI and on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups.– MM. Maxime Minot and Stéphane Viry also applaud]] [[Same movements]] On the other hand, 3000 to 5000 women go abroad every year to abort. Who in this House can put themselves in their place? I therefore congratulate our colleagues in the delegation for women's rights, to which I am unfortunately not a member, for having had the courage to propose this text and, together with some of my colleagues in the Republican Group, I will vote in favour of extending the deadline from 12 to 14 weeks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u254	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u255	The public ballot will allow everyone to express themselves in conscience about this text. As the arguments put forward have shown, we will vote resolutely against these deletion amendments. Everyone must ask themselves the question: will there be a vote for or against the strengthening of women's rights? That's the question! Will we vote for or against the strengthening of the right of access to abortion? In a few moments, everyone will be able to answer these questions in conscience!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u256	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u257	[["No! » on various benches]] It is by chance that President Orphelin took the floor before me, but I observe that before him, all the men who spoke in the Chamber are against the extension of the right to abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u258	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u259	I'm talking about those who spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u260	He needs to stand out all the time! It doesn't bring anything to the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u261	I'm coming to the point. No scientific body, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to decide what is a political issue. Even when Simone Veil spoke here,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u262	Stop instrumentalizing Simone Veil!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u263	... perfectly respectable arguments were presented to oppose this very particular gesture of the IVG. However, for political reasons, it was a major decision taken in 1975. I respect the colleagues who have taken a stand against this text and respect their intimate convictions, including spiritual ones, but I tell them that the existence of this right will always give rise to tension. The question is: forty-five years after the legislator voted here on the existence of the right to abortion – I say the existence of the right, not of the thing itself – we see – I congratulate the delegation to women's rights for its work – that for practical reasons, including the decrease in the number of gynaecologists,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u264	And midwives!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u265	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, EDS and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] ... many women cannot enjoy this right. This very sensitive issue must therefore be resolved politically. It is not a question of allowing an exceptional right, but of doing what is done in other countries – I am thinking of Spain, where the weight of spiritual convictions could, however, prevent the existence of this right – and of increasing the time limit to fourteen weeks. That is why the FI Group will vote in favour of this text and congratulate those who have taken part in its preparation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u266	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1, 7, 11, 21, 34, 63, 71, 81 and 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u267	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 183 Number of votes cast 169 Absolute majority 85 For adoption 70 Against 99
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u268	Before we proceed to consider the following amendments, I would ask those of our colleagues who wish to leave the House after this vote, in particular the Republican Group, to do so in a calm manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u269	That's enough! It's all the time you're quoting us! Stop and come home!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u270	I have before me three amendments, Nos 44, 56 and 97, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 44 and 56 are identical. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 44.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u271	This proposal for a law endorses the removal of the criterion of distress, which has disappeared under the law for real equality between women and men of 4 August 2014. However, it seems to me that the removal of this criterion is again tantamount to trivializing abortion and making it an annoyance in the minds of the French, the voluntary termination of pregnancy becoming the obvious outcome of any unforeseen or difficult pregnancy. I have had the opportunity to work with women who have used IVG. What comes back most often in their remarks is the lack of choice: in the face of an unexpected pregnancy, they were guided to the abortion, without having at any time the impression of being able to make a real choice. What I would like for my part is to give women the choice. However, the choice is through information. Ignoring the distress that leads women to abortion amounts to clearing society from all solidarity with them. However, this was said in the general discussion, the latest DREES study on IVG statistics in 2019, published only a few days ago, in September 2020, reveals that women with the lowest incomes are making greater use of it. That is why I believe that the criterion of distress must be reinstated in Article 1. National solidarity requires not to deny distress, but rather to accompany women in this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u272	Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u273	"If the legislator is called upon to amend the legislation in force, it is in order to put an end to clandestine abortions which are most often the result of those who, for social, economic or psychological reasons, feel in such distress that they are determined to end their pregnancy under any conditions. With this sentence, delivered in his speech of November 26, 1974, Simone Veil completely summarized the spirit and purpose of the legalization of abortion: to respond to the distress of many women and to avoid them a clandestine abortion. By removing the criterion of distress, the law for real equality between women and men of 4 August 2014 betrayed the very spirit of the Veil law. The use of the IVG is a decision that engages a life and that can leave psychological traces, as 92% of French people recognize it according to the latest survey of the FIFG – Institut français d'opinion publique – on the subject, compared to 89% in 2016. As a result, the use of GVI cannot be neglected in this way. Indeed, it is nothing more than the concern to respond to the distress which led the legislators of 1975 to make abortion, which was until then a crime, a right. To hide in the eyes of society the state of distress that causes women to resort to abortion is to prevent them from providing them with adequate answers; Not to recognize this distress is to make it worse. It therefore seems essential to re-establish the concept of distress in the law. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u274	I call Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo to support Amendment No. 97.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u275	I do not understand why my amendment is being discussed jointly with the two previous amendments. He proposed that the possibility of extending the legal period for access to IVG from 12 to 14 weeks should not be generalized, but should only be provided for in the context of the state of emergency. I would also like to reply to Mrs Rixain, who points out that the extension of the statutory deadline from 10 to 12 weeks had not led to an increase in the number of abortions. This argument demonstrates that extending the time limit is not the right solution...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u276	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u277	... and that it is indeed an information and prevention policy that we must work on, as well as equal access in all territories. This amendment therefore proposes that the extension of the deadline should be reserved for the context of a health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u279	I will be brief, because many debates are yet to come. The identical amendments by Mrs Ménard and Mrs Thill are, in my view, disguised deletion amendments, which go back to an essential achievement of the right to abortion. What matters is the right of women to choose, to dispose of their bodies and to be masters of their future. The removal of the concept of distress in our law by the law of 4 August 2014 was a major step forward for women's rights, putting an end to their infantilization. No one would reasonably wish to reconsider this acquired right. As for the amendment by Mrs Firmin Le Bodo, it is intended to provide for the possibility of extending the legal period of access to the IVG from 12 to 14 weeks within the exclusive framework of the state of health emergency. The current crisis had highlighted the difficulties faced by women. But in reality, they also exist outside of times of crisis, hence this bill, which aims to extend the deadlines permanently. Unfavorable opinion on the three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u280	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u281	On Amendments Nos 44 and 56, which propose to re-establish the concept of the distress of pregnant women as a criterion for access to abortion, I express a clearly unfavourable opinion. If this criterion has been removed, it is not to be reinstated in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u282	Bravo! This time, it's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u283	With regard to Amendment No 97 by Mrs Firmin Le Bodo, which proposes to extend the time limit for access to abortion only in the context of a state of emergency, I would ask that it be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion. The intention is commendable and, as I recalled during the general discussion, we have put in place provisions to facilitate access to abortion during the period of state of health emergency. But if the deadlines are constantly broken, no one will understand anything – neither the women who give birth or abort, nor the doctors, nor the centres of the Family Planning. Some stability is necessary and deadlines must be fixed over time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u284	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u285	I would like to understand how taking into account the distress of a woman amounts to infantilizing her. Explain to me! It's not because she's a woman that we're infantilizing her. How can taking into account the distress of a human being, whether a child, man or woman, infantilize that individual? I'm sorry, but I don't understand – unless it's really about low-floor sexism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u286	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, We already had this debate in 2014!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u287	[[Brouhaha on the benches of the SOC and FI groups]] Yes, I do! Because she's a woman, she'd be infertilized? Furthermore, the rapporteur, you have referred to the notion of choice and freedom of choice. This is precisely the argument I used. I imagine you met some women who had an abortion...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u288	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u289	Some of us even had an abortion themselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u290	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM, SOC, FI and EDS groups, as well as on the panel of commissions]] ... since you are defending this bill. In many cases – I don't have a specific percentage to put forward – it is clear from the testimony of the aborted women that in response to their feeling of distress, they were guided towards the solution of the abortion without having really had the choice. When a woman is faced with an unwanted pregnancy and consults to seek advice, she is referred to the GVI.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u291	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u292	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, let us allow Mrs Ménard to speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u294	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM, SOC, FI and EDS groups]] [[Same movements]] You're saying I don't know what I'm talking about? On the contrary, I worked with a group of women who had had an abortion. Some have experienced it very well – so much the better for them – but others have not experienced it well. I do not see how to deny reality would make things more acceptable. We have to stop veiling our faces and closing our eyes! Some live it very well, so much the better, but others live it badly. And those who live it badly say that they were led to a choice that was not the one they would have wished to make.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u295	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u296	[[Christian Hutin applauds]] Madame Ménard, no one here forces women to abort! What we are defending is the right of women to dispose of their bodies and the possibility of abortion. I want to answer you: not only am I talking to women who have had abortions, but I myself have had abortions. And the moment I felt distress was the day the gynecologist explained to me that there would be no room for me to have an abortion in time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u297	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u298	[[Applause on several benches of groups FI, SOC, EDS, LaREM and Dem]] [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] This is where distress is sometimes also found! That is the real situation of women! In order for women not to experience abortion as a tragedy, we must not only surrender our guilt, but also that our country devotes the necessary resources to ensuring that they can do so in dignified conditions and with respect for social and territorial equality. You want to reintroduce the notion of distress. Far from infantilizing her, we consider that a woman can judge herself of her own situation of distress. Let's leave her free will!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u299	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u300	[[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] She doesn't need an outside judge to come to a decision in her place! That is why we must advance the law and the means devoted to abortion: if it is still a failure of contraception, it is not always a tragedy and we must ensure that this is less and less the case. If you start to evoke a baby putting his finger in the mouth and explain that the IVG affects life, then you can consider that life exists from the first minute of existence of the foetus. So assume it, you are totally opposed to abortion, in all situations! Because it's a matter of principles. If yours is not touching life, whether the pregnant woman is in distress or not, then it leads to refusing abortion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u301	Thank you, Mrs. Autain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u302	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR, SOC and EDS groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] The principles we defend for ourselves are women's rights and the practical implementation of this right, for reasons – which we support – of rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u303	Mrs Emilie Chalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u304	[[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR and SOC groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and EDS groups]] I was born of feminist parents: my mother is, my father is. They both raised me in a spirit of independence, freedom, joy and responsibility. I am astonished by the nature of the debates that we still have in 2020 on the voluntary termination of pregnancy, I who grew up considering that it was normal to have this possibility, as an obvious one. But it's not. Worse: that's the fighter's journey. Worse still, this debate is always marked by solemnity and a form of dramatization. That he was in Simone Veil's mouth in 1974, I can understand that. But we are forty-five years later. In this Chamber we hear of "serious subject", "dreadful choices" or "distress". Well, dear Simone, I will leave your mind in peace, for forty-five later, these terms do not correspond to what the women whom I have met and who have chosen to abort – as was also my case. Not that they regard this act as a posteriori contraceptive system: no, they do so in conscience, in freedom and sometimes guilty of not feeling in a situation of tragedy. Let's stop blaming women who have abortions! We have this right: let us stop assuming it freely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u305	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u306	Colleagues, when one of us expresses a different opinion from yours, you do not have to vocify.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u307	We didn't call!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u308	Emmanuelle Ménard simply expressed his convictions. You can ask for the floor, and we will debate it together. I find the underlying ideology behind your remarks unbearable, which leads to the removal of the specific conscience clause and to the strengthening of the crime of obstructing the abortion. You are in an militant, ideological, one-way logic that is unbearable! Let us have calm debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u309	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u310	That's not what's unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u311	Speaking of debate, I am very pleased that our colleague Clementine Autain is asking the question of the protection of unborn life. At least she admits that this question arises! But if the answer to this question can be Manichean in the intimate conviction of everyone, it cannot be here. We are in a parliamentary and political debate and must reconcile women's freedom with the protection of unborn life. You say – and assume – that you do not want to protect unborn life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u312	And you, you assume to be against the IVG!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u313	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and EDS groups]] And that's how you'll extend the abortion period to nine months, as required by the Family Planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u314	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u315	Yes, I do! You're not consistent. Those who say "no" simply have a train late – a train of which you are, Mrs Bergé, the driver! There are several concepts of the debate, each of which has its own consistency. We emphasize the protection of unborn life, hence the supervision by the notion of distress – defended in its time by Simone Veil. His words are often quoted today, but let's go back to his speech! Why do deadlines, criteria exist? They were not put in place to hinder women's freedom, but to find the difficult and painful reconciliation between this freedom and the protection of unborn life. Mr Minister, the rapporteur, do the issues we are dealing with today have to do with the protection of unborn life, yes or no?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u316	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u317	Mr Breton, at the beginning of your speech you called for respect for speeches, especially when Mrs Ménard spoke. I also heard you, at the end of your speech, take part in Mrs Bergé. I invite you to be consistent! Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u318	Minister, I will not withdraw my amendment. Had it been debated under the emergency law of 23 March 2020 to deal with the covid -19 epidemic, we would probably not be discussing this bill. I then tabled a similar amendment, but it could not be debated. It is because I am in favour of stability that I will vote against this bill: to keep the 12-week deadline is to respect that stability. Our role is to ensure that the combatant's journey of using GVI is no longer one and that access to it is facilitated. Finally, we have adopted many temporary measures during the period of health crisis. If only for this reason, I will maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u319	Mrs Agnès Thill has the floor to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u320	The aim of this amendment is to clarify that the extension of the time limit for recourse to the IVG is by way of derogation from the first paragraph of Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u321	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u322	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u323	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u324	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u325	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u326	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am old enough to know from experience the distress situations that my colleague Clementine Autain described at the moment, of a time when it was not possible to abort in France. We, the men who loved our companions, were caught in these situations of distress. The worst was these caravans travelling around Europe to enable them to abort in decent conditions. So let us not be afraid to address the philosophical stakes of the debate. Mrs Ménard, you defend the right to life: I understand it, I respect it. You can't prove any more that you're right that I can't prove that I'm right. I could say why it is better to make the choices we make without ever asking myself for a truth that would be imposed on you and me, except from our point of view, that of humanism that makes the human being the creator of himself. I understand that it offends certain convictions, but it is ours. You are right to say that this view is ideological, colleague, but yours is just as ideological, because when we start refusing deadlines, as the other would say, there are no longer any limits. I could cite a government that I totally disapprove of, although it is considered to be my friends: Nicaragua, which has finally banned abortion in general, even when women's lives are in danger. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, GDR, SOC and EDS groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] What we face are philosophical points of view. If you say that life is a sacred right as soon as the foetus appears, then you must prohibit any delay. If you say you don't know, then you have to rely on the freedom of the human being to create himself, that of the woman in this case, to whom it is up to him to appreciate the limits of his freedom. The only remedy against abuse is individual freedom, the freedom to decide for oneself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u327	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 3 and 51. Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u328	The aim here is to make it mandatory for health care professionals to present all methods of abortion to women so that they are guaranteed the right to choose the one that suits them best. It is not only a matter of ensuring that this stage in the lives of a number of women is lived under the most favourable conditions, but above all of making effective the right to choose, which is enshrined in the law – for I repeat, we are here to ensure that the right to abortion is effective and that the law is respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u329	On Article 1, I am seized by the Socialist and related groups and GDR of an application for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u330	The aim is to ensure that the various methods of abortion are systematically presented to women at the first appointment. Our numerous hearings have taught us that too often they are not offered this choice. We want the text to explicitly recognize their right to be specifically informed about all methods of GVI. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and SOC groups. – Mr. Guillaume Chiche also applauds]] I would also like to reply to Mrs Ménard – if I may, Mr President – about the infantilisation and distress of women, since I asked for the floor on this point: we are here to ensure the effectiveness of a right that belongs only to women, and not to subject her exercise to the decision of a third person.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u331	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u332	For my part, I am more than in favour of these amendments: it is known that the lack of access to information is an obstacle to freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u333	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u334	Instead, I would ask you to withdraw these amendments, because they have been satisfied since the law of 26 January 2016. Article L.2212-3 of the Public Health Code stipulates that a doctor or midwife who is requested by a woman to stop pregnancy must, from the first visit, inform the woman of the medical and surgical methods of interruption of pregnancy and of the risks and possible side effects. The duty of information is therefore already in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u335	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u336	We are not debating the right to abortion: it is acquired and enshrined in our law; We are simply debating a number of modalities for making this right effective, which is not nothing. The remarkable work that has been carried out by Albane Gaillot and a number of colleagues, particularly in the delegation to women's rights, has shown that this right needs to be slightly adapted – because today we are only introducing slight changes, we are not revolutionizing the right to abortion – to the reality of our society and of the situation of women who must, for one reason or another, resort to this right. I want to reiterate my conviction that we must move forward in this area and that we will do so by voting on this text. These are only adjustments: it is not a question of calling on the great evening of the right to abortion, but of persevering a right and making it effective. The evolution of medical methods requires such an adaptation of our right to the benefit of all women in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u337	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u338	I would like to respond to President Mélenchon's comments, because I do not think that this debate is taking place in 2020 in the same terms as in the 1970s. It is not simply an ideological relativism: there is a lot of excess in these words. It is not a question of being pro-life or anti-life, but of taking into account what the advance of science teaches us. There are stages. Some will place the beginning of life at the appearance of consciousness, others at the appearance of organogenesis, others at this important moment where the embryo becomes fetus. Before this stage applies the so-called law in medicine at all or nothing, where the occurrence of an accident prohibits the birth of the child; After that, the child can come to an end despite this accident, possibly with a disability. Here again, it is a matter of choosing freely, of freely determining his family plan. Today, in 2020, one may not be in excess – and the current law respects this possibility. This 12-week period has not been set by chance. It has a history, it has been the subject of debates, sometimes heated, and it may have been necessary at the time of the progressives to push the plug far enough. Today, we were assembled in an impromptu manner without anyone being consulted. I even know that the order of the midwives did not consult his flocks, which were only consulted by the obstetricians two days ago! I'm not even sure they want to do the bad work they want to do because those who have the medical status they haven't refused to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u339	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u340	He's got to take some medicine, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u341	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Today, stakeholders have not been consulted. This is not just an ideological debate between progressives and conservatives. We are here to play with a cursor that marks our attachment to life, to successful lives, to old lives, between conservatism, naturalism and transhumanism: it is much more serious than a matter of a few days.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u342	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u343	It is clear that an hour and a half of general discussion is not enough to decide or to enlighten the French on debates, since they come back to each amendment. [[Applause on several benches of the SOC, FI and GDR groups]] For having studied it, or even tested it a few years ago, I personally believe that this period can be extended from twelve to fourteen weeks. Beyond this problem of the deadline, which you propose to deal with today, the difficulty of effective access to the right to abortion in France is primarily due to the disappearance of a number of structures that allowed women to be accommodated in the territories in tension. These amendments address the problem of the ability to choose between the methods of IVG. The trauma, the drama, the tension that a woman, or even a couple, lives in this type of circumstance make it necessary to make an informed choice. You have asked for these amendments to be withdrawn, Minister, because they would already be satisfied. However, it happens quite commonly that our law enacts the same rule in different texts, to clarify things well and to mark the intention of the legislator. I therefore urge the authors of these amendments not to withdraw them, since they make it possible to mark a will which I believe to be largely majority, regardless of the opinions on abortion as such. You will allow the president of the political family who allowed this advance of our right to say that it is not just a matter of extending a period of a few days. I would prefer that instead of contenting myself with a position of wisdom, the Government should stimulate public debate so that we can explain that it is feasible – this is my view – but that it is not neutral, that it is necessary to take into account new needs, just as Simone Veil and President Giscard d'Estaing responded, a few decades ago, to the needs of those days. Today, women are still forced to go abroad for abortion, as was the case at the time. That is why I am personally in favour of Article 1e r, and above all this amendment, which seeks to allow every woman to know all the possible abortion techniques, depending on the stage of pregnancy in which they are.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u344	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u345	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u346	I would just like to add to what I said earlier in response to Mr Chill, who sees this as an infringement of human rights. This point of view, which I respect, starts from the premise that human life would begin with the foetus. I opposed the opposite premise, according to which a human being is a human being when he is wanted and when he is born and enters social relations. I was relying on the humanistic definition of the creative human being of himself. I would like to extend this discussion by saying to my colleague Son-Forget that, as much as he is a scientist in his medical field, he is very mistaken: science will teach us only our physical or sensory limits; She won't tell us anything about the human being. You're in a scientific illusion. Between a banana and a human being, science tells us that there is only 2% genetic difference; In my opinion, the difference is much more important. Therefore, we will always have to define ourselves: it is the definition of freedom as it unfolds in history. You will not have an objective answer to the question of who is a human being and from when. You have only one recourse, as in all other areas: freedom of conscience. This freedom, the woman, is the guardian of it at this moment. If you do not believe in freedom of conscience, then you do not believe in the foundations of morality, because even when you believe in God, it is individual freedom that makes us choose between good and evil. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] Freedom of conscience is the subject of this text. If we set a limit in one way or another without basing it on an objective reason, then we would decree something that would reach the secularity of the state, that is, we would decide when life begins, and that is not in the means of the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u347	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u348	Let us return, more prosaically, to the legal framework within which these amendments are based. The law contains two separate paragraphs: one deals with women, stating that they have the right to be informed of abortive methods and to choose one freely; the other one is interested in the doctor, who has a duty to inform the women he receives in consultation and who want to have an abortion. This duty of information therefore already exists in the law. You would like to transform the right of the woman to be informed – a right that is enforceable, enshrined in the law – into a duty of information for the doctor – even though it is already included in the law. By doing so, you would deprive the woman of the enforceable right to be informed! In line with the logic behind the Government's position, I have proposed that these amendments be withdrawn. I rely on the wisdom of the House for the reasons I have already explained.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u349	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u350	One might wonder what the Government's opinions were for, since amendments to which they were unfavourable were adopted joyfully! This is a real method problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u351	It's called the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u352	By my amendment, I propose that any amendment to the legislation on termination of pregnancy should be subject to public debate. I agree with Jean-Christophe Lagarde's concerns: subjects of such importance cannot be considered in a parliamentary niche, but must be the subject of a real debate. On 30 September and 1 October, the FIFG survey institute asked a French panel the following question: "There are currently 232000 abortions performed for 753,000 births in France every year. In your opinion, is this situation worrying, because abortion remains an act that one would prefer to avoid, or is this situation normal, because abortion is an act to which women can be exposed during their lives? » The answers are balanced, like our debates: 51% of the French feel the situation is worrying, and 49% consider it normal. To the question "do you think that an abortion leaves psychological traces difficult to live for women? 92% of our compatriots respond positively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u353	It's absolute evidence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u354	They didn't experience it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u355	Finally, to the question "do you think that society should better help women to avoid the use of voluntary termination of pregnancy? 73% of our compatriots give a favourable response, a result that is increasing compared to 2016. These answers have the merit of reshaping the debate: it is not a question of being for or against abortion, nor of advocating an unconditional abortion, regardless of any delay or criterion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u356	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u357	[[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] ... it is rather a question of developing prevention to avoid abortion, which remains a tragedy for women. Is there any provision in the text to that effect? Do you integrate the notion of the protection of unborn life?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u358	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u359	I assume that the amendment refers to the procedure for public debate provided for in Article L.1412-1-1 of the Code of Public Health issued by Article 46 of the Bioethics Act. The text we are debating is not bioethics. Your amendment therefore makes no sense. On the other hand, I will not answer your questions on the substance, since I have already explained my position in the general discussion. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u360	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u361	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u362	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u363	I understood that we would not reopen the debate on the IVG, but I find it shocking to hear some interventions that that is what it is all about. You have just questioned the merits of women's access to abortion, Mr. Breton!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u364	Not at all! If you are incapable of nuances, it is your fault!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u365	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem, EDS, SOC, GDR and FI groups]] [[Same moves. – Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras and Mr Maxime Minot also applaud]] [[Same moves. – Some Members of the LaREM and EDS groups, as well as Ms Valérie Bazin-Malgras, stand up and applaud]] In France, one in three women has used or will use abortion. Here, in the Chamber, we are a number of women who have resorted to it, and we do not expect compassion or commotion; We expect women to have access to abortion as they wish, without hindrance! The obstacles persist, and that is what we are talking about this morning! You seem to think I'm crazy, Mrs. Bonnivard, but I'm sorry to tell you that in our country, women face barriers to abortion. We have sometimes suffered them ourselves; we have seen delays extend at the risk of no longer being able to abort; We had to endure doctors who forced us to listen to heartbeats. We have lived it, and we do not want women to continue to live it! This morning, we are providing an answer to women, even if it may not be ideal or sufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u366	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u367	Since I have been taken part on several occasions, and as I said in my very first speech, I reiterate that there is absolutely no question of making any judgement on women who resort to abortion. Let's be clear. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] [[Same moves. – Mr. Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds]] Stop giving moral lessons! Stop with the "radio my life": "I have aborted"; "I had feminist parents"; "I did this or that." There are no better deputies than others; There are MPs who have different lives and realities! Every point of view is worthy to be listened to, don't you mind! I heard some of you refute the survey cited by Xavier Breton, on the grounds that the respondents had not experienced abortion. How do you know? Mrs Bergé has just recalled: one in three women has had or will have recourse to abortion. In any event, these women were interviewed in the survey! To hang your favorite word, let's stop stigmatizing, in one sense or another! [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Marine Le Pen, Mr Nicolas Meizonnet and Mrs Agnes Thill also applaud]] Whether you want it or not, the transition from twelve to fourteen weeks of pregnancy is marked by a physiological reality – and it is not a question of religion, Mr Mélenchon. Whether you like it or not – and I know that it bothers some – a 14-week-old baby sucks his thumb. I don't see what would be indecent to say! Let's respect each other's opinions, and work together upstream: strengthen information, put nurses back in colleges and high schools, and stop insulting us all for a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u368	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u369	We have pointed out on several occasions: none of this is trivial, and no one here challenges the right to abortion. However, if a limit has been set at 12 weeks of pregnancy, there are reasons and specialists have been consulted. Today, the Collège national des gynecologists et obstetriciens français, chaired by Professor Nisand, warns us: by extending this deadline, we will cross a red line. That is why, in our turn, we sound the alarm bell and relay the comments of the specialists: be careful, we will cross a red line! Some may want to cross it for political reasons. For our part, we believe that the subject requires extreme caution. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] [[Applause on several benches of the LR group and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Agnès Thill, Mrs Marine Le Pen and Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applaud]] You cannot deny this: in reality, this debate is ethical in nature. The least we can do would be to have the opinion of the National Ethics Advisory Committee in advance. But we don't have it. The mere fact of continuing the debates, without knowing this opinion, proves that we are caught in an unbridled race. While our country is facing a pandemic emergency, why would there be such an urgent need to consider this bill? If it were only technical in nature, it would be different. As a member of the Committee on Finance, I can assure you that whenever we discuss the budget, we obtain the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance in advance. When we talk about life, as we do today, would it not be useful to hear the opinion of the National Ethics Advisory Committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u370	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u371	Two points of agreement emerge from the discussions, and we should welcome them: first of all, no one questions the fundamental right to abortion; Then, no one questions the fact that women who want to do an IVG follow a true combatant's path and sometimes face enormous difficulties. Only one question should concern us: will the transition from twelve to fourteen weeks remedy this journey of the fighter?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u372	He will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u373	I don't think so – asserting the opposite is an ease. The real question is that of hospital reception, the abolition of hospital posts, the abolition of places of reception, the abolition of nurses in high schools, the dramatic shortage of gynaecologists – in a word, it is the question of the abandonment of women in our society. We can enjoy ourselves by brandishing an ideology and defending it at all costs, but this will not solve the real problem of women. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] No, the change from twelve to fourteen weeks of pregnancy is not insignificant. If adopted, I can assure you that many doctors will refuse to do the act, which will put women in trouble. The passionate debate this morning does not address the real stakes, but constitutes a serious drift. I therefore agree with the idea of referring the matter to the National Ethics Advisory Committee before voting on this proposal to extend the legal deadline for abortion. That'd be the least I can do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u374	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u375	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I would point out that the amendment in question is intended to ensure that any amendments to the legislation on the IVG give rise to a public debate – which would make it necessary before starting the discussion on this bill. I want to say to Mr Hetzel that if we can only look at texts directly related to this pandemic during the pandemic period, Parliament's activity risks being stopped very quickly, and we will be obliged to review the agenda of this House! Fortunately, we continue to legislate on all kinds of subjects! It was precisely during the confinement that the question of an extension of the legal duration of access to the IVG came back to the front of the stage: it became clear that this prolongation was necessary for women who were prevented from consulting a gynaecologist or having an IVG practiced under correct conditions. Moreover, it is wrong to say that there is no public debate on the IVG: on the contrary, this debate is almost permanent. First of all because feminist movements have been carrying it for a very long time, demanding, in particular, an extension of the legal deadline. Secondly, because there is a deep wave of discussion, particularly among younger generations, about women's rights and their emancipation, one of the major issues of which is the issue of abortion. The difficulties faced by women who wish to abort have to do with the means made available by the State to enable them to do so, as well as with the logic of profitability that has become apparent in this area: clinics or hospitals may refuse to practice abortions because it is not sufficiently profitable. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We must strive to improve the situation, and I cannot hear the argument that the budgetary restrictions that have been imposed on us for decades prevent us from doing so. We discuss the main principles that we want to see enforced in the law, and only then must we ensure that the means follow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u376	I put to the vote Rule 1, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u377	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 178 Number of votes cast 167 Absolute majority 84 For adoption 102 Against 65
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u378	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u379	Mr President, I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u380	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u381	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u382	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 16 and 26, which are the subject of a sub-amendment No 122. Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u383	The aim of Amendment No 16 is to reintroduce the concept of a situation of distress which, during the 1974 debates on the voluntary termination of pregnancy, constituted the most widely accepted line between women's freedom and the protection of unborn life. Since then, it seems that there is only one will to be heard, that of abolishing the principle of the protection of unborn life. The introduction of the concept of distress had been a way of objectifying things, and probably it would have been necessary to find other words that corresponded better at the time. In any event, we should have retained this objective notion, for we cannot make the life of others dependent on the will of one person alone. To affirm, as President Mélenchon did earlier, that one of the constitutive criteria of the human being is to be wanted, is to make one person dependent on the will of another, which seems unacceptable to us. We believe that a human life is welcomed – voluntarily in the best of cases, but not systematically – and not that the adult exercises all-power over the future of the human beings that are children. There are, in fact, differences that emerged during the discussion of the bioethics bill during the consideration of this bill. It is an ethical question that arises, namely to seek the difficult reconciliation between two principles, and it must be noted that you now simply refuse to hear about one of these two principles, that of the protection of unborn life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u384	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u385	We hope that we will not lose sight of the notion of distress. Many here in this Chamber refer to Simone Veil and if we repeat the speech she gave in this rostrum in 1974, things seem clear. I quote: "I say this with all my conviction: abortion must remain the exception, the ultimate recourse for situations without a solution. " She went on to say: "No woman resorts to abortion with her heart's joy. All you have to do is listen to the women. It is always a tragedy and it will always remain a tragedy. " Then she asked: "Those who are in this situation of distress, who is concerned about it? " She placed great emphasis on the notion of distress because it was from that perspective that the issue should be addressed. I have the impression that we are gradually moving away from this idea which, in reality, is at the very origin of the legalization of abortion, which intended to respond to a public health situation which became intolerable. In doing so, we expose ourselves to the risk of a demiurgical drift that would abolish the limits. For my part, I believe that when we deal with these issues, we need ethical limits. That is why I do not understand that we can dispense with such an important opinion as that of the National Ethics Advisory Committee. Not having its light puts the entire national representation in trouble.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u386	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to support sub-amendment 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u387	My sub-amendment is to add the words "physical and psychological health". Indeed, the state of physical and psychological health at the origin of the situation of distress may be transitory. It is important to take this aspect into account when it comes to such a heavy decision. [[Rires on a few benches of the LR group]] I am deliberately dualistic in distinguishing physics from psychological, which are inevitably intrigued from a philosophical point of view. It's obvious in this kind of care. This leads me to react to President Mélenchon's remarks, who is mistaken when he says that the DNA difference between a banana and a man is only 2%: in reality, it is with chimpanzee that we have this gap. Let him be careful because, nowadays, this kind of confusion can lead to consequences. He himself, if he does not refer to a biological substrate in decision-making, is highly dualistic for someone with an atheist. I put him in front of his deep inconsistencies...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u388	What is the opinion of the committee on the identical amendments and the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u389	I am not going to repeat the debate we have had on Article 1...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u390	Yes, yes, let's debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u391	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and FI groups]] ...but I'll take a few minutes to answer Mr. Son-Forget. You have called on the entire national representation to complain that we have not consulted with the competent persons, especially midwives. That's not true! You could have noticed this by attending the work of the Social Affairs Committee and by consulting my report.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u392	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u393	Midwives have indeed been taken into account since we have heard one of their representatives. They issued an opinion today, which I invite you to read, just as I invite you to read the opinion of gynaecologists-obstetricians published in Le Nouvel Observateur yesterday, which contradicts Mr Nisand's remarks. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] As for the sub-amendment and the amendments, I am against it. The reference to distress limits women's rights, which is contrary to the purpose of my bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u394	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u395	I have a deep respect for Simone Veil's work, which has often been cited here. To tell you everything, when she passed the law authorizing the abortion, I was not born – I was even far enough from being born. Immersing myself in archives and grimoires – without shame in the memory of anyone – allows us to get back into the context of the time, which brings us back to the question of the double clause of consciousness. IVG was a common practice, extremely dangerous, penalized, criminalized, which resulted in the death of many women – let's think of the hanger method. Its legalization had mobilized the national representation in the Chamber very widely, and the drafters had planned, not safeguards, but measures to appease those who could be, and to reassure those who needed to be. Two concepts were introduced. First of all, this is the double conscience clause, on which you will have a debate this afternoon, which is just a reminder of the general consciousness clause that applies anyway for any medical act, abortion or not – like the duty of information that you adopted earlier, ethical obligation for any doctor who already exists in law. It is then the notion of distress, now totally anachronistic with regard to the situation prevailing in France, in Europe and in most of the countries of the world that have legalized abortion. Therefore, do not reintroduce this concept that was already obsolete forty-five years ago. That doesn't make any sense. This does not correspond to the practical reality of women. I would prefer you to fight against this phenomenon that Aurore Bergé described very well, that kind of psychological pressure that some doctors exert while going so far as to make listen to the heart of the foetus to deter women from aborting. In this respect, the nature of the information is almost more important than the duty of information. It is a true journey of the fighter that must follow the women who abort. They don't make this decision because they want it or because the idea came to them like that. They do so out of necessity, a necessity which belongs to them and which they do not need to justify in front of a practitioner, was he in a white coat. Let us make this journey as painful and as fluid as possible. That's where you have to fight, ladies and gentlemen. It is certainly not a question of reintroducing social or psychological pressure, whatever its nature. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Opinion very strongly unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u396	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u397	Minister, I will come back to your remarks in a few moments. Madam rapporteur, when we defend amendments with which you do not agree, you say: 'I am not going to reopen the debate'. Well, let's reopen it: we need to debate. Our Assembly is the forum for debate. Out of respect for national representation, please argue! Explain to us why you are unfavorable to our proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u398	You're not talking about the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u399	Minister, you are inviting us to fight for what is worth it. But what we need to pay great attention to is the trivialization of the abortion. This is the path you take. That's what you're having a hard time understanding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u400	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u401	This joins the question of the awareness clause that is required of health professionals for certain very specific acts, of which abortion is part. This is essential and I believe that our citizens expect us not to enter into a process of trivialisation of an act like this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u402	He's nothing ordinary!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u403	[[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] There is a legitimate balance between women's rights and the preservation of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u404	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u405	[[Mr. Jean-Jacques Bridey applauds]] I would like to ask you, colleagues in the Republican Group, about the concept of distress. Who's going to judge? On what objective elements can be based? Is it because she just got a job while she was unemployed? Is it because her spouse just left her? Is it because she already has a five-month-old child and she came back pregnant when she returned from bed? Who's gonna decide for her? Your amendments are very dangerous, because the notion of distress is very subjective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u406	The situation of distress is well taken into account for the medical interruption of pregnancy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u407	No voiferations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u408	You're talking about the right to life, but have you for a moment asked yourself the question of how a woman who, for nine months, feels growing up in her belly a being she doesn't want? How will she welcome her once she has given birth? I am very proactive in the fight against violence against children, I ask you: do you think it is appropriate to say to a woman who did not want a child, when she comes out of the maternity ward: "Behold, ma'am, it's your baby, you're lucky, your husband works, so do you piss off"? A woman has the right to choose, thinking about her but also thinking about the child and her future life.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u409	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u410	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] A child is not a toy, we have it for the rest of our lives. If you have children, you know as well as I do that you have to be damn tough to take on their education, especially in today's world. These counterproductive amendments run counter to women's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u411	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u412	While information on the right to abortion and its modalities is very accessible, information on alternative choices, assistance to pregnant women or young mothers in distress is too little. The aim of this amendment is therefore to restore an equal right in access to information, whether it concerns the possibility of abortion or the possibility of keeping a child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u413	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u414	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u415	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u416	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u417	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u418	Mr Minister, you gave an unfavorable opinion, but did you not say earlier that more information was needed? In fact, the information in question is one-way. Freedom is to abort or not to abort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u419	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u420	It would be interesting to have your opinion on this, Madam rapporteur. Would you agree that every effort must be made to ensure that this freedom of choice is respected? Today, information is one-way, I repeat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u421	Where did you see that? It's a fantasy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u422	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The offence of obstruction has been established to prevent freedom of expression. Fortunately, associations do a lot of work to accompany women who hesitate and who are sometimes the victims of pressure to abort. You are right to mention the pressures that are being exerted to ensure that women do not have abortions, but we also need to talk about the pressures they are being subjected to in order to have abortions. What do we do for them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u423	That is not the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u424	Go to the associations that do a listening job, and you will see that they collect a lot of testimonials in this direction! Again, you have taken a bias, that of women's freedom, and you do not want to take into account the protection of life. You are on the side of the omnipotence of adults, you do not care about the fragility of life to be born. It's your choice and it's consistent. Simply, it prevents women who wonder, who doubt, from having the real choice, knowingly. If they wish to have an abortion, they may do so under certain conditions; If they wish to keep their children, they should be aware that they will not be alone and that associations will be prepared to assist them from a material and psychological point of view. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] What we are proposing is a right to information that is not univocal, and I believe that we can find ourselves on that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u425	We're not in 1975 anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u426	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 86, 37 corrected, 45, 91, 13 and 23, which may be subject to joint discussion. Amendments Nos 37, 45 and 91 are identical; Amendments Nos 13 and 23 are also. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 86, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u427	We can all seem to agree on one point: for the couple or the woman who is confronted with it, abortion is a trauma.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u428	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u429	All opinions can be expressed in this Chamber, colleagues: let us allow Mr Di Filippo to continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u430	[[Xavier Breton applauds]] It's not just a women's problem: you can also be involved as a father. Everyone can find themselves struggling with difficult choices. In order for the decision to be made, it is necessary that the information be the best possible. To be pregnant is to face a precipice: it is another life that opens, a life that will have to be assumed – which is more complicated than to assume oneself. We need to help women, tell them that there are supports for future mothers, future parents, but also opportunities for adoption – this can open up opportunities for some of them. In order for their freedom to be complete, let us at least give them this opportunity, let us at least open these perspectives to them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u431	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to support sub-amendment No 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u432	With a view to a free and informed choice, it is important that the information be in some way bilateral. Support associations play a considerable role in this area. [[Exclaims on a few benches]] One can only see today a kind of bias: one should always be in favour of abortion, even preventable. I hear the testimonies, the distress signals; I also know that there are transitional states, situations that may improve, unborn children who were not welcome and yet, even abandoned, have become people instead of being – excuse me for the term – deleted. This right to life is of great importance in the context of a permanent public debate where we are told of transhumanism, of overcoming the limits of our human condition, of the commodification of life and even of death. Because abortion is prohibited in France after twelve weeks of pregnancy – which you want to increase to fourteen – channels have been organized to make massive abortions abroad for women who have exceeded this deadline. You who are campaigning for an ethical and inclusive Europe, how can you accept such differences? Cécile Muschotti quoted Ricœur about individual freedom. She made a serious mistake: for Ricœur, there is the person, the relationship to the other and the relationship to society. It's a trinitarian good-bye! That is why a collective decision is essential, hence my proposal on support associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u433	Amendments Nos 37, 45 and 91 are the subject of a sub-amendment No 124. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 37 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u434	As an introduction, I wanted to thank Mr Di Filippo for introducing the figure of the father into this discussion. As a general rule, to conceive a baby requires a father and a mother; Sometimes the mother is not alone in the choice of abortion. As you said so well, sometimes it's a couple's decision. This amendment concerns the guide file which is given to a woman when she consults with a view to a possible abortion, and which contains, inter alia, the list of organisations carrying out this act. I would also like to see a list of the rights, aids and benefits guaranteed by law to families, mothers, unmarried or unmarried, to their children, as well as the possibilities for the adoption of an unborn child. This simple measure of common sense, although common sense is often an enormity for you, could help solve a large number of personal tragedies by presenting women with perspectives other than abortion. Even if a survey does not have the force of law, I would like to go back to the one cited by Mr Breton: 84% of the French are in favour of the reintegration of the details of the aids to pregnant women in the official booklet of information of the consultations for IVG. They were there until 2001. Since then, this booklet has only dealt with procedures for abortion, although a proposal has been made to amend it in the sense I indicate and although 84 per cent of our fellow citizens, I repeat, are in favour of such an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u435	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u436	Our objective at this stage is that information circulates and is balanced, which is why this amendment is intended to supplement the second paragraph of Article L. 2212-3 of the Public Health Code with the following sentence: "This guide file also contains a list of the rights, aids and benefits guaranteed by law to families, mothers, unmarried or unmarried, and their children, as well as the possibilities offered by the adoption of an unborn child. » [[Exclaims on FI banks]] The concept of "distress" was discussed earlier: it is necessary to ensure that all the possibilities open in this case are known, such as the birth under X, which should not be completely ruled out. Let's not lock ourselves in a unilateral view of things!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u437	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 91.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u438	Minister, in your bill to revise bioethics legislation, there is a good title: "To enable people to exercise informed reproductive choices in a controlled environment." That's exactly what we're looking for. During the general discussion, I appreciated your presentation of the issues, which highlighted their complexity and the need to have all the elements. Madam rapporteur, your proposal is precisely about changing the framework of the law in force. In a certain way, the question of the time limit for reflection may arise again, but would the information be detrimental to the effectiveness of the law? In other words, would reflection necessarily deter women from abortion? I don't believe it; In some cases, it would even be possible for it to reinforce them in their resolution. Since we collectively aim to ensure that women are free, we can enable them to be fully aware of all the possibilities available. Information should not be biased either in one direction or in the other. There must be no pressure, even insidious, either in one direction or in the other. That is why the information must be exhaustive, which is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u439	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to support sub-amendment No 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u440	First of all, I would like to make it perfectly clear that I am not in any way hostile to the right to abortion. I campaigned against a outgoing Member of Parliament who had voted in favour of amendments aimed at deburring the IVG; I firmly opposed his ideological corpus. However, the discussion is not at the right level. On the LDC, medically assisted reproduction, and GPA, pregnancy for others, we got stuck in a debate about the parenting project instead of focusing on the child. Today, we are talking about women's rights and freedoms: I am a supporter of gender equality – for me, the question does not even arise – but it is a pity that we do not take advantage of it to go to the bottom of the question, where the medical, scientific, ethical, sociological dimensions are mixed. Minister, I regret that you did not solicit the National Ethics Advisory Committee, the NCCE, on the status of the embryo. This relationship to life is at the centre of sociological debates that occupy the whole world: it would be worth trying to die the abscess. These are serious, fundamentally complex issues that deserve to be discussed openly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u441	We come to a new set of identical amendments, Amendments Nos 13 and 23, which are the subject of a sub-amendment No 125. Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u442	Since the beginning of the morning, we all, for the most part with force, paraphrase Simone Veil's words: abortion, "it is always a drama and it will always remain a drama", not a banal act. As Nathalie Lancelin-Huin, a psychologist specializing in perinatal care, notes, a late abortion, as it affects the life process, is a trauma: it is difficult to assess the consequences it will have for the mother. In this sense, we must do everything we can to prevent the legal deadline from being extended again. After fourteen weeks, why not bring it to sixteen or even twenty-two weeks like in England? Because there are many levers in France, because the lack of access to information is an obstacle to free choice, it would be legitimate for the booklet given to women who consult for an abortion to also allow them to know the details of the aids offered to pregnant women and young mothers, in order to make an informed choice in a controlled setting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u443	I call Mr Patrick Hetzel to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u444	I will not go back to the arguments that Nathalie Bassire has excellently developed. On the other hand, I would add that the drafting of this text reveals a very unilateral view of things. To uphold women's rights is entirely legitimate, but this will in this case leads to neglecting the necessary balance, which exists in our fundamental texts, including the Constitution, in favour of life. Increasingly, the end of the period during which abortion is allowed has implications for women, their children, if any, to be born, as well as for professionals. These are distresses we need to hear. Minister, I paid the utmost attention to you when you said that some professionals were concerned that the extension of this deadline would hinder recruitment into their profession. It doesn't sound like you're asking questions. Yet you will probably get the opposite effect of the one you are looking for, namely the preservation of women's rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u445	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to support sub-amendment No 125.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u446	The right to abortion exists; It is framed, like all rights. No one proceeds from gaiety of heart to a late abortion, neither the practitioner nor the patient. Life is made up of rules: we make the law, which can be so binding that it undermines freedom. This is not the case with abortion legislation, which is rather permissive, and in any case ensures that women's right to dispose of their bodies is respected. Perhaps I am too demanding in this discussion, but the current contours of this text will not make it a new milestone on the path to women's freedoms and rights. Despite our good intentions, we are simply moving towards something that will harm human life and its dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u447	What is the opinion of the committee on all the amendments and sub-amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u448	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] It is essential to inform and enlighten: I agree with you on this point. On the other hand, once again, it is also necessary to stop blaming women, to infantilize them! Do you think a woman's aborts because she doesn't know the status of the mother and the child? Yes, the woman who wants to abort needs clear information: that is why we have adopted an amendment on her right to information about the various instrumental and drug methods. But the information you quote is mentioned during the psychosocial interview that is systematically offered to women of age. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u449	Mr President, you have not given me the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u450	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u451	I do not understand when the subject of the debate was able to move from the content of a practical guide given to a woman who consults with a view to aborting respect for human dignity. We have to pay a little attention to what we're talking about! This is not about dealing with the main ethical principles. If I put myself for a moment in the place of a woman who wishes to have an abortion, I imagine that if I go to a doctor or family planning to find out how an abortion is going, I expect that in return, I will simply be told what the risks and procedures of an abortion are and how it can be done in practice. If I walk through the door of a gynaecologist to tell him that I am pregnant and that I have made the choice not to complete this pregnancy, I do not expect the person in front of me to ask me if I know that there are great adoption mechanisms. There are other ways to learn about it. (Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC and FI groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group.) If we consider a woman as a human being in her own right, with cognitive abilities as well as any human being – which is quite my conviction – we can think that if this woman has crossed the door, it is that she has already led her thinking. Moreover, crossing the gynecologist's door does not mean that she will go to the end of the process: she can change her mind for various reasons. If you ask a question, it is normal for the answer you are given to be in relation to the question, otherwise you go elsewhere. Moreover, this elsewhere exists: the website ivg.gouv.fr is very well done and a national number on sexuality, contraception and abortion, also very well done, was set up by the Family Planning with the support of the State and deals with 24,000 calls each year. Most importantly, these resources provide good information. Indeed, among the activists of the cause of explaining to women that they can have their child adopted or that, even if they are afraid to have a child because they are alone, it will go very well – I'm not saying that this is your case – there are also people who run websites or officiaries that practice pure and simple misinformation about abortion. That is why I am very pleased to have voted, under the previous mandate, the law that penalizes misinformation and the consequent danger to women. (Applause from the EDS group benches and several benches of the LaREM group.) [[Same movements]] This is not, I repeat, the subject of the debate, which is not about human dignity, but is only about taking people for what they are: people with thinking abilities in autonomy. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u452	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u453	Mr Minister, I am quite embarrassed by the nature of the answers and the denial that you are opposing these proposed amendments, even if they can no doubt be challenged or improved. Contrary to what my colleagues who support these amendments have said, this is not a choice that would oppose women's right to freedom and reproduction, but to create conditions of equality in the information available to women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u454	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u455	Anyone who has been directly or indirectly confronted in his family with the dilemma of whether or not a woman is going to have an abortion knows that the requirement for information on the different paths and the possibilities available to her is an essential element of her decision-making. You are right to say, minister, that there are officials who manipulated the information, but your position in principle is that there should be no equal information between the two choices that women have. This is very embarrassing, because it seems to imply a preference for the solution of abortion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u456	That's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u457	Women do not know all their rights and what opportunities are available to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u458	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u459	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] There is a clear need for information and I do not understand that the Government does not accept the inspiration of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u460	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u461	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] We are witnessing a gradual shift in debate. At first, there was support for abortion, but with reluctance to extend the deadline. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is slowly beginning to question the fundamentals of an issue that was dealt with and settled in 1974 by Simone Veil. You quote Simone Veil all the time, saying that the distress of women must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u462	That's what she said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u463	Yeah, that's what she said, but look why she said it! At the time, the distress of women was that they did not have this choice and lived in guilt and shame, with threats to their health. That is what Mrs. Simone Veil said when she spoke of the distress of women. Today, the distress of women is, for a number of them, not having the time to abort because the deadlines are too short and this right is not effective. This debate, which was decided in 1974, must be put back in place. Women have the right to dispose of their bodies. We are dealing here with provisions to make this right effective, and nothing else. (Applause from the Dem and LaREM groups)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u464	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u465	In this Chamber I hear the terms "distress", "precipice" and "dramatic". What we're talking about is a hidden side of the iceberg: it's about abortion, sexuality and the failure of contraception, but finally, what we're talking about here is women's rights, and the fundamental right to have sex without reproduction. You're infantilizing women, as if they couldn't have full control of their bodies. You're talking about a couple, but the decision is a woman's. Women know exactly what happens when there is a pregnancy, what they want for their lives, what balance they want in their lives. We are gathered here not to go back to the very principle of abortion, but to ensure that this right is effective for all women throughout our territory. (Applause from a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and EDS groups.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u466	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u467	I do not think there is any question here of the right to sexuality, to abortion or anything else: these amendments have as their sole purpose the right to information, and to information in both directions. Minister, I admire your certainty. You say that when a woman enters a gynaecologist's office to ask for details about the IVG, she already knows that she wants to practice one. Well, no, not always. Sometimes, when a woman – or a couple, you don't mind – enters a gynaecologist's office, the woman says that she is pregnant, that it doesn't fall well, that she is asking questions and that she would like to have information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u468	She's got them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u469	We're not saying anything else.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u470	No. She knows what she's coming for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u471	Those who have tabled these amendments, and I think that many colleagues will support us on this point, is that information is given in all cases – on access to abortion, but also on other solutions that exist when a person arrives in a doctor's office and does not know what to do. It is only about that, not about certainties. Many people do not have your certainty in life and say that they do not know what to do, that they ask themselves questions and that they would like to discuss it with their doctor for information on all the possibilities offered. All we ask is the right to information. That doesn't seem very witchy to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u472	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-08-O1011.u473	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further consideration of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion; Consideration of the draft law on first measures to prohibit certain practices causing suffering in animals and to improve their living conditions; Consideration of the proposal for a law to create equal and effective parental leave; Consideration of the proposed law on citizen sponsorship for refugees, stateless persons and protected persons. The meeting is adjourned.
