ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3642). The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u2	I am very pleased to meet you for the next reading of the Finance Bill for 2021. We are, a few weeks later, in a different context from the one that presided over the first reading of the text. We have succeeded in containment – I say "we", but it is the French who have shown a sense of responsibility, since they have accepted health restrictions that have allowed us to slow down the circulation of the virus while maintaining a high level of economic activity. During the second confinement, the loss of activity was in the order of 12% for the month of November; At the time of the first confinement, it had been 30 per cent. I say right away that this is not a pretext for a third confinement; On the contrary, it is an incentive to continue our efforts in the field of health so as to combine the fight against the circulation of the virus with the maintenance of economic activity. We have also recorded good figures for consumption. During the Black Friday weekend, consumption was 30% higher than that of the previous weekend, and the figures available show that this promotional event was as successful in 2020 as it was in 2019, with particularly high consumption of capital goods. As for the rest of the economy – in particular construction, public works, agri-food – activity remains strong. We are succeeding in fighting the circulation of the virus while maintaining the highest possible level of economic activity. However, too many uncertainties remain, both on the health front and on the international front, to revise our recession figures for 2020. Some institutes, as you know, estimate the recession for 2020 at -9% or -10% of GDP, but we maintain, for the sake of caution and responsibility, an estimate of -11%. On the other hand, we expect a strong rebound of +6% in 2021, and I am pleased to see that most economic institutes, like the Bank of France, confirm our ambition to return, at the end of 2022, to the same level of economic activity as in 2019, before the crisis. Among the uncertainties, there is Brexit. I would like to say to the representatives of the nation that it will first have a negative impact on the British and the British economy, and that the impact on the French economy should remain limited: we estimate it at 0.1 point of activity in 2021. Of course, many companies will be affected, but we have been accompanying them for several months, we will help them complete the new customs formalities, we will be at their side: the 150,000 companies that export to the United Kingdom will be accompanied, and each of them is important. However, this does not involve the entire French economy. One sector is particularly concerned, that of fishing; The President of the Republic has made it very clear that we would support it and make it a hard point in the negotiations, but, once again, Brexit does not have any consequences for France's entire economic activity. It is Britain that will be penalized by Brexit, it is the British economy that will be penalized by Brexit, much more than the French economy. I would like to point out that we cannot at the same time want to get out of the single market and, at the same time, want to keep all the benefits, i.e. nearly 500 million consumers and the activity that goes with it; The political choices and consequences of these choices must be taken into account. In these circumstances, our economic strategy for 2021 will remain the same as that which guided us, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and myself, since the beginning of this crisis, which has no equivalent in the contemporary history of France. We must support the sectors which need it most, with attention, efficiency and consistency, but at the same time we must immediately commit the recovery which must enable the French economy to emerge stronger in 2022. The first phase of the economic crisis was devoted entirely to the protection of enterprises, the protection of employees and the protection of the purchasing power of French households. The first few months have enabled us to save hundreds of thousands of jobs, to protect tens of thousands of companies from bankruptcy and to maintain the purchasing power of the French – because it is the state and the companies that have absorbed the shock, much more than the French households, even though I do not neglect that some of the most fragile French people have been the most affected. This was the first time of the crisis: that of the total, effective protection of our economy, of the employees and of the purchasing power of the French. We are now entering the second phase of the crisis, during which we must continue to support the sectors that remain strongly affected by the crisis and simultaneously embark on recovery in sectors that are doing well, starting to develop, need innovation, need investment, need participatory loans, need to recreate wealth and create jobs. This is the second phase of the crisis: the one in which we are entering today with the re-reading of the finance bill. Then a third time will come – I will have the opportunity to return – when growth is back, when France has regained its economic dynamism, where it will be necessary to re-establish French public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u3	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u4	I say to our majority that it can be proud of having succeeded, in three years, in falling below 3% of the public deficit, in bringing France out of the excessive public deficit procedure and in stabilizing the debt: it is part of the identity of our majority that we have well-kept public finances. When the time comes – and I insist on that – we will have to take the necessary decisions on the basis of the reflections and proposals that the Committee on the Future of Public Finance, chaired by Jean Arthuis, which Olivier Dussopt and I have set up. It seems essential to me that the French know with precision and clarity the economic and financial strategy that we are implementing with the majority, under the authority of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister: to protect first; restart then; Finally, re-establishing public finances on the basis of proposals that we are working on now. The protection of the most fragile sectors is a matter of economic efficiency and, above all, justice. Not everyone is affected in the same way, not everyone is affected with the same violence by the health crisis and its economic consequences. Large industrial enterprises are doing well; so much the better. Economic sectors have begun to reboot; Good for us, good for them, good for the French economy, good for employment. And then, sectors are very hard hit because the health rules require us to keep them closed; They, like their customers and suppliers, are very hard hit. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and DEM groups as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve and Mr Christophe Jerretie applaud]] I would like to have a word, at a time when they are demonstrating not far from the National Assembly, for all the restaurateurs of France. I measure, and we all measure here, how difficult their situation is and plunge thousands of restaurateurs into distress; It is not just a question of financial distress, especially as we provide the necessary support in this regard, but of human distress, of moral distress, when one cannot exercise his profession. I think there is nothing more difficult for these men and women involved than not being able to exercise what is both a profession and a passion: to welcome; bear witness to his art of living, his culinary culture, showing conviviality; have its teams around you, its employees, its servers, its cooks; to be able to receive from the public, to promote the French gastronomic culture; Tens of thousands of restaurateurs are deprived of all this. Those who make us happy, those who do our pleasure, they must know that they will receive the full support of the State and of our majority to help them spend these difficult moments in the best possible conditions. We have therefore decided, together with the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, to give massive support to the still closed areas, in particular restaurants, bars and all other areas of conviviality. We have thus decided to transform the Solidarity Fund, which was originally intended to protect the smallest companies, into a fund which will allow them to reach up to 20% of their turnover within the limit of EUR 200000. We will maintain the exemption from charges for all these closed sectors and we will maintain 100% partial unemployment compensation for all restorers and establishments as long as they are closed for health reasons. I would also like to commend the efforts made by some private actors to accompany the restaurateurs and other closed sectors. Insurance companies have decided to freeze all premiums for professional multi-hazard insurance contracts for 2021. To those who would always like to ask insurers more and more, I would remind them that it is a matter of finding, in our response to the crisis, a balance between supporting the most affected sectors and preserving the financial balance of groups in which a large majority of French people have placed their economies, in the form of life insurance. I would also like to convey to the cultural sector, to all the theatre directors, to all those who work in the cinema and museums, to all those who were waiting for the opening of 15 December – which was not possible for health reasons – that, as I have told the Minister of Culture, whose commitment and determination I welcome, we will give them all the necessary support so that they too can spend these weeks of closure in as little difficult conditions as possible. I would also like to have a word for all the winter and mountain sports resorts. We have brought them together several times, with the Prime Minister, and we will provide them with massive support. In the draft finance law as it stands in new reading, this is reflected in 400 million euros of exceptional appropriations, aimed in particular at supporting the operating losses of lifts. Another very affected sector is aeronautics, which is the focus of our attention because hundreds of thousands of jobs depend on it, because it is part of a race for technology, because its thousands of SMEs irrigate the whole national territory and create jobs; positions of engineer, worker, skilled worker are at stake, and we do not want to lose this living substance of our industry. I have therefore, from the beginning, given massive support to aeronautics, and we will continue to do so. We will therefore support the entire sector – SMEs and large industrial groups – but also the national airline Air France, which we have decided to support since the beginning and which we will continue to support in the coming months, as well as the airports. It is thus proposed, in a new reading, EUR 250 million in additional appropriations to assist the latter, the activity of which has completely collapsed in recent weeks. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, I would like to recall that, since the beginning of this crisis, we have also given massive support to all the most fragile: all those whose incomes are the most modest, all those whose fixed-term contracts have not been renewed, all those who find it difficult to find an internship, all the temporary workers, who were the first victims of the economic crisis. All have received the greatest attention from the majority. I will not let say, as institutes or commentators do too often, that this majority would do anything for companies, everything for supply, and nothing for employees, nothing for demand, nothing for the most fragile, because it is simply a lie! A majority who has had the courage to introduce the most generous partial unemployment compensation scheme in Europe cannot allow us to say that we do not support the purchasing power of the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u5	What about the 80000 jobs that were destroyed? You're wonderful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u6	A majority that increased the activity premium for all employees paid at the SMIC,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u7	Is everything okay with them, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u8	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... so that they benefit from an additional EUR 100 net per month cannot allow us to say that we do not support the most modest households and employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u9	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u10	A majority who have had the courage to release additional funds for the most fragile – in this finance bill, 120 million euros will go to food aid – cannot let us say that we are not doing the most for those most affected by the crisis. A majority which has introduced an exceptional premium of 1000 euros totally defied, to the benefit of 5 million employees, for an average amount of 500 euros per year, cannot allow us to say that we have not supported massively those who have the low wages. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is only just justice to restore the truth about our measures; Sometimes it's good to do it. In total, in this new version of the finance bill, we are proposing €20 billion in additional resources to support the most affected economic sectors and the most vulnerable, the most affected by the crisis: we have earmarked €11 billion for partial activity, which I would remind you will be maintained at 100% in all sectors affected by the closures; EUR 7 billion for the solidarity fund, which we have reviewed the award criteria, as I have indicated to you; EUR 1 billion for charge exemptions; In addition, all the credits I have given you, to support the people hardest hit by the economic crisis. At the same time, as I explained to you, we do not have a minute to lose in order to start economic recovery. France's economic development is now taking place in the next decade.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u11	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u12	It is now that France's ability to continue to play the leading roles in Europe, alongside Germany and the largest European nations in 2022, is being played when we emerge from the crisis. It is now that France's ability to remain in the technological race against China, facing the United States, is being played out together with its European partners. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I understand everyone who says that, in order to finance demand, it is only necessary to take EUR 2 billion out of the funds earmarked for hydrogen, or that, in order to support purchasing power, it is only necessary to take EUR 1 billion out of those devoted to electric batteries! But it would be irresponsible not to invest now in what will make the power, the jobs, the economic activity, the prosperity and the standard of living of the French tomorrow! It is now that the legacy that we will leave to our children, in terms of economic power for France, is being played out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u14	I also see that the results are there and that our first decisions in favour of recovery are producing effective results. Where would we be in terms of youth employment and learning if you hadn't decided – my "you" is for a much larger group of Members than those of the majority – to vote for youth employment credits? Where would we be without a bonus for hiring young people up to the age of 26 in CDI? Where would we be, in terms of apprenticeship, without the bonus for hiring an apprentice, 8000 euros when he is over 18 years old, and 5000 euros when he is younger? The figures would certainly not be the ones we managed to achieve: in 2020, in the midst of a crisis, as many apprentices were recruited as in 2019. This success owes you everything, since you, on these benches, voted for these extra credits for young people. Industrial relocation is a second example of the success of the recovery policy: 600 projects have already been selected, with jobs at the key; industrial activity is developing, for example in the chemical industry with Seqens, in the agri-food industry at Lesaffre, in the Hauts-de-France, with 400 jobs key, a new production line financed by the recovery plan. The digitisation of SMEs is also a success. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In addition, I am convinced that the energy renovation of public buildings, which has been the subject of intense work, concluded this morning by the Prime Minister, will also enable us to commit the necessary revival in environmental matters. The Prime Minister announced this morning that 4214 projects were selected in this framework, for 2.7 billion euros, according to a simple method: the selection being carried out by the departments, in consultation with the local elected representatives. In 95 per cent of cases, the decision was not arbitrated by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, or other members of the Government; If decisions have been made at the local level, it is because it is at this level that they must be taken. In addition, 95% of these projects are worth less than EUR 5 million, of which SMEs, very small enterprises, will benefit most of all, rather than the larger groups. All these projects must enable us to create in two years 20,000 jobs dedicated to energy renovation in the building sector, whether they are police stations, gendarmerie, universities, large schools or CROUS – regional centres for academic and academic works. Our choice in this area is strategic: almost 50% of the credits will go to universities because we want to send another message: our support to young people, to the intelligence, to the training and to the education of our children. Recovery is the condition for France to remain in the race, among the great economic and technological nations. We will therefore invest heavily in hydrogen, quantum computing, electric batteries, semiconductors, as well as training and qualification. The French see jobs disappear, jobs disappear, and they want to know in which field they or their children will be able to work tomorrow. Well, the recovery plan answers these questions by investing in the areas of the future where tomorrow's jobs will be created. All of these expenditures will raise the level of public debt to more than 122 per cent of national wealth. I therefore want to conclude my speech by insisting on the necessary restoration of public finances, when the time comes. Before everyone learns the lesson by the majority, I would like to make a brief historical reminder on the state of public finances for several years in France. Prior to the 2008 financial crisis, public debt stood at around 60 per cent of GDP. To deal with this crisis and to boost economic activity, decisions have been taken. Even if they were the right ones, they raised the debt, in the aftermath of the crisis, to 97 or 98 per cent of national wealth. This level of public debt has not been reduced under the previous quinquennium, so that we have inherited it, I would like to remind you. To deal with the crisis of 2020 – even more severe than the crisis of 2008, because it affected the real economy and led to a recession of 11% – we committed public spending, which you voted for. This was the only responsible decision to prevent an economic crisis from being added to a political drama, as our continent experienced in 1929. This has brought public debt to 120 per cent of GDP. I would like to repeat to the majority that it does not withdraw anything from the efforts it has made for three years to bring the government deficit below 3% of GDP, to stabilise the debt and to get out of the excessive deficit procedure. This proves this: when we want to restore public finances, we can. This majority has done so, and I am convinced that in the years to come, it will be eager to do so again and will know,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u15	We'll be here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u16	...by embarking on a long-term programme, by giving visibility to the French, by explaining why we chose this objective and how to achieve it. I now hear a democratic debate on the cancellation of the public debt. It is perfectly legitimate:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u17	Ah! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u18	...it's up to everyone to take a stand! Some say: "It's very simple, you have to cancel the debt. I remind them that France has always honoured its signature, which it has never failed in recent history,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u19	Unlike Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u20	... and that nothing would be worse for the credibility and power of our nation than to announce to investors that we would not repay our debt. That would, I think, be a mistake,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u22	.... a fault; It would be against the interests of the French nation. As for all those who claim that it would be enough not to repay the share of the debt financed by the European Central Bank, I would remind them that it would be contrary to the European Treaties! Let them therefore go to the end of their reasoning: if they do not wish to repay this debt, it is because they wish to denounce these treaties...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u23	Of these treaties, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u24	... and get out of the European Union. I don't think that's France's interest. This leads me to defend with this majority a different position: we must repay the debt. It is possible to do so in three ways: by regaining growth; showing responsibility for public finances; by being able to undertake the necessary structural reforms, enabling our nation to live better and our children to maintain the standard of living that has always been that of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Once again, the committee on the future of public finances, which Olivier Dussopt and I have asked for, under the chairmanship of Mr Jean Arthuis, will allow us to prepare these decisions, calmly, calmly, without haste, because decisions are only good when they take place at the right time, after having been prepared with method and serenity. It is the mode of action which, I think, characterizes this majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u25	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u26	Here we are gathered for a new stage in the major fiscal race that began more than two months ago. In a period of crisis where uncertainty in the health environment is pervasive, it is essential for the Government both to set the course for economic recovery through the recovery plan, to fulfil the commitments made and to adopt a sincere and consensual approach, based on collaboration with all parliamentarians, as this is the prerequisite for its success. The finance bill that Bruno Le Maire and I are presenting to you meets these conditions. As you know, this budget is the cornerstone of the recovery plan that we have already had the opportunity to present. I would point out that, out of the total amount of EUR 100 billion in the recovery plan, the State will directly finance EUR 86 billion, including EUR 66 billion in budgetary appropriations and EUR 20 billion in tax cuts. The appropriations for the "Relaunch Plan" mission, which you adopted at first reading, in particular, amount to 36.4 billion; EUR 22 billion of payment appropriations have been earmarked for the financial year 2021. The fall in production taxes is the other major driver of recovery. It amounts to EUR 20 billion over two years, mainly for the benefit of ETIs and SMEs. First, it will support the manufacturing and trade sectors, in line with our commitments. The rest of the recovery plan will be financed by other actors, such as social security or UNEDIC, amounting to EUR 8.7 billion, notably under the Segur and the long-term partial activity. Some EUR 5.5 billion will also be financed by the Bank of the Territories and Bpifrance. Finally, the recovery plan will receive historic funding from the European Union, amounting to EUR 40 billion. A course has been in solidarity between European partners, and we can only welcome this. In addition, this finance bill contains exceptional measures to accompany the exit from the crisis of our economy, while marking the continuity of the Government's action. Without a recovery plan and emergency measures, we are continuing to invest in the future by increasing the resources for national education by more than EUR 1.3 billion, and for research and higher education by EUR 400 billion. It is a gesture towards our young people, whose professional success, as we know, determines the future characteristics of employment in our country. It echoes the choice, recalled by Bruno Le Maire at the moment, to devote half of the funds of the stimulus plan dedicated to the renovation of state public buildings, universities and infrastructures for young people. In addition, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry for Gender Equality, which lead two key areas of government policy, will see their budget increase by €150 million – in addition to the €2 billion provided under the Recovery Plan – for the first and 40% for the second. In terms of energy transition, again, we are continuing and strengthening our efforts. This budget contains important measures to preserve biodiversity, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt territories to climate change and the development of short circuits. In addition to the considerable effort financed by the recovery plan, amounting to EUR 30 billion, the resources of the budget of the Ministry of the Ecological Transition increase, at a constant scope, by EUR 550 million. The importance of the issue obviously makes it necessary to assess the impact of all budgetary measures on the environment. This is the first step we have taken, at the initiative of parliamentarians – I am thinking in particular of Bénédicte Peyrol – through the Green budget. We will report annually to Parliament and the French on the environmental impact of the state budget. Beyond that, we continue and will continue our efforts to reduce compulsory levies. The 2021 Finance Bill reflects the significant tax cuts decided by the Government. The removal of the housing tax on principal residences continues. In 2020, 80% of households no longer pay housing tax. Starting in 2021, taxpayers who remain subject to it will begin to benefit from a progressive exemption that will result in its permanent and total abolition for principal residences in 2023. Businesses will also continue to benefit from tax reductions, as the corporate tax rate continues to decline, to a 25% decrease in 2022, in line with our commitments. In total, taxes will have decreased by EUR 45 billion by the end of 2021, half of which will benefit households and half will benefit businesses. As you know, this period of budget construction for 2021 has been marked by health uncertainty and subsequent economic uncertainty. We have therefore had to adapt the great balances on which our financial laws are based, as new information becomes available, guided by the principle of sincerity. It is assessed on the basis of the information available and the forecasts that can reasonably be derived from it. We wanted to keep each assembly informed at best of the elements that we had at each stage of the shuttle. In the end, compared to the initial presentation of the FLP for 2021, the growth rate for 2020 was revised from -10 to -11 %, and the increase in the government deficit from 10.2 % to 11.3 %. Growth forecasts for 2021 were down by 8 to 6 per cent. These are prudent choices in the context of current uncertainty. We will once again adapt the public finance scenario for 2021 in a few minutes, to take into account the necessary emergency measures already mentioned. The new general government deficit forecast for 2021 is set at 8.5% of GDP, compared with 6.7% originally forecast. This deterioration is primarily due to the mechanical effect of the new macroeconomic scenario, with the expected revenue from compulsory levies expected to fall by €22 billion. It is also due to the additional expenditure to support the health crisis, in particular the rearming of the main emergency measures, which are increased to EUR 20 billion, of which EUR 13.4 billion were not yet budgeted. These EUR 20 billion are broken down as follows: EUR 11.4 billion for employee support, of which EUR 11 billion for partial activity – an additional EUR 4.4 billion compared to the initial version of the PLF – and EUR 400 million for support for permit holders, as announced by Elizabeth Borne; 7.6 billion for business support, including 7 billion for the solidarity fund and 600 million for sectors particularly affected by the crisis – such as sport, notably through the National Sports Agency – culture and mountain resorts; Finally, EUR 1 billion for aid for the payment of contributions. In addition to these appropriations, EUR 2.5 billion is earmarked to finance in particular: specific support measures for young people, amounting to EUR 202 million; €66 million in support to the La Poste Group to ensure the level of resources allocated to the departmental territorial postal presence commissions and the national postal presence contract; the 250 million support for airports to which the Minister of the Economy has just referred; the recapitalisation of the Agence française de développement to the tune of EUR 500 million; the purchase of sanitary equipment for 430 million euros; Finally, EUR 120 million in cash advance for the food aid campaign. We will also propose that you re-evaluate the amount of the revenue levy for the European Union by EUR 336 million, as well as a compensation of EUR 300 million for loss of air operating revenue and EUR 130 million for a further abundance of the allowance for adults with disabilities. Finally, we have to enter 1 billion euros of tax credit for donors, under the scheme adopted successively by your assembly and by the Senate. The new measures we present will therefore help each company, in all sectors, even if I hear specific requests for specific activities. These supports complement the massive measures already in place. Thus, in order to give each young person a solution, the recovery plan provided for EUR 6.7 billion; It will be further strengthened to accompany everyone. The revision of the deficit and macroeconomic scenario also leads us to review the public debt ratio, which would reach 122.4 per cent of GDP in 2021, after 119.8 per cent in 2020, when our initial forecasts were based on a debt of 117.5 per cent in 2020 and 116.2 per cent in 2021. So I hope you will adopt a very rich text in relation to the draft that we originally tabled. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the intense work you have done and will continue in the coming days. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Through your various speeches and the amendments that you tabled and have adopted, you have made a real debate possible, enabling the text to be improved on several major points. I would like to point out that, at this time in the parliamentary debate, three quarters of the amendments adopted are of parliamentary origin, and I welcome this ratio, which reflects a joint work on the construction of this finance law. In the first part of the finance bill, the National Assembly passed nearly 160 amendments. Many measures are the result of parliamentary initiative, including the retention for non-residents of the partial release from withholding tax, which preserves French people living abroad, or the raising of the turnover ceiling from the reduced rate of IOSME – corporate tax for SMEs – to EUR 10 million instead of EUR 7.6 million, at the initiative of the rapporteur-general. For local authorities, the Government and Parliament have introduced historical measures into the text. In addition to the provisions of the amending finance laws, until the last recently adopted, I am thinking of neutralizing the impact of the health crisis on the determination of VAT fractions by local authorities. In addition, the Department's equalization fund has been abounded by €60 million to maintain it at its current level of €1.6 billion. Finally, the current method of upgrading industrial premises has been retained at the initiative of MPs from several parliamentary groups, guaranteeing communities a significant revenue dynamic. The overseas mission's appropriations were increased by EUR 10 million to finance the creation of an accompanying contract for municipalities in financial difficulty. Finally, among the latest amendments to the text, an amendment by Jean-René Cazeneuve will create a safety net for community tax revenues – we will have the opportunity to discuss it again in the next sessions. In the second part, the amendments adopted made it possible to go further in the ambition of the text and to provide concrete answers to several issues. A mechanism for revising photovoltaic contracts has been adopted to adjust the over-rentability of certain contracts. In the event of a lower profitability, a safeguard clause was introduced for the benefit of producers, so that this revision of the contracts could not lead to negative profitability situations, which would lose any interest in the economic actors. In addition, the deadline for contracting a State-guaranteed loan has been extended to 30 June 2021 in order to provide more room for manoeuvre for companies, and its depreciation may be extended between one and five additional years. In the same spirit, you wished to support the Government's proposal to introduce into the PLF for 2021 a tax credit encouraging donors to cancel some of the rents owed by companies. A Senate amendment has extended this measure to local and regional authorities, and we will ensure that it applies to all stakeholders. Finally, the Pinel scheme and the zero-rate housing loan have been extended, with adjustments to their parameters to make our housing policy more efficient. In the Senate, almost 600 amendments have been adopted, leading to a major change in the finance bill and its balance, which certainly explains the impossibility of reaching an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee, as you have seen. However, among the amendments adopted, I would like to highlight the Government's interest in the exceptional and temporary doubling of the tax reduction ceiling of 75 per cent, known as "Coluche", for aid associations for the most vulnerable. Many are engaged in solidarity actions for the benefit of the most modest; We want to give them our support. I will also mention the amendment adopted by the Senate, in line with what we adopted in the PLFR, reducing the rate of VAT on vaccines against covid-19 to 0%, but also on a number of protective equipment. Finally, I would point out that the Senate has adopted an amendment by the rapporteur-general, resulting from work with the Government, which removes the waiting day for civil servants with covid, so that there is no unequal treatment between public officials and private sector employees, who already benefited from this abolition. In total, this budget represents unprecedented state support for the economy. Nevertheless, it is our responsibility to tell the truth of the figures and to consider when we will find a sustainable fiscal trajectory. Indeed, as a result of the past crisis, we will have to ensure that public spending is restored to a level that is both sustainable, credible and bearable for the nation. Bruno Le Maire said, a commission on the future of public finances was tasked with proposing medium-term public finance scenarios. It will also have to make recommendations on debt management and analyse the appropriateness of its cantonment. Finally, we will need to improve the governance framework for our public finances in order to make it more effective and ultimately control the evolution of our public spending. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This is an important point because we must guarantee the confidence of our lenders in the sovereign signature of France and the confidence of the French in our management of the contributions they make. That is what we will have to focus on in the coming weeks and months, when, thanks to the efforts and commitments allowed by this finance bill, we will finally see the end of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u27	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u28	It is December 14, 2020, at a turning point in the current crisis, I sincerely believe. Since March, we have been discussing a great deal of urgency, and then we have talked about the revival of which this 2021 finance bill is the vehicle. We are now at the crossroads between the end of the emergency measures for the year 2020, their anticipation for the beginning of the year 2021 and the putting on track of the recovery plan. It is therefore a delicate moment: with this new reading, we must address ourselves clearly and intelligently to those who are suffering fully from the effects of the crisis as well as to those who must seize the investment tools that will make France a stronger, more prosperous, more powerful and more competitive country tomorrow, after this health and economic crisis. As a result, we need to understand the budget discussion in a somewhat different way than usual, knowing that the Government – and he was right – has tabled an amendment that proposes to open 6 billion euros in the mission "Emergency plan in the face of the health crisis". This amendment provides EUR 5.6 billion for the Solidarity Fund and support for the cultural, professional sports and ski resort sectors, but also for the purchase of sanitary equipment. This is an important addition to the first reading, which will therefore deserve to be stopped for a moment. Beyond this €6 billion, the Government is planning emergency support measures for a total of €13.4 billion in 2021. To this end, it shall credit other missions or carry forward appropriations for the year 2020. In view of the funding allocated to partial activity, to the support of permit holders or donors, in total, it is 20 billion euros that will be made available without delay, from the beginning of the year 2021, to our economy – I say this to Charles de Courson, with whom we discussed it a little earlier in the day. In this context, the Government proposes to re-establish the "Relaunch Plan" mission as voted by the Assembly at first reading. I support this initiative because the calibration we found was the right one. We thus provide a powerful tool for the Government to enable all sectors of our economy not only to recover but also to prepare for the future. Looking at the details of the text, it seems to me important to recall the contributions of the parliamentary shuttle. Even before the many changes made by our fellow senators, the Assembly had focused on improving the original text around five main points. First, for the benefit of businesses, we have raised the turnover ceiling to EUR 10 million, which is eligible for the reduced corporate tax rate of 15%; It is a powerful tool for the competitiveness of our SMEs. In addition, we have designed the tax trajectory for chambers of commerce and industry, thus responding to the fears expressed by many parliamentarians and supporting the action of the KICs during the crisis. The cultural sector is also subject to specific measures, including the extension of the two-year income tax reduction for investments in SOFICA – companies for the financing of the film and audiovisual industry – and the consolidation of many tax credits. I am pleased that significant progress is being made for the benefit of local and regional authorities. Thus, several revenue levies are created, including one in favour of the departments benefiting from the DMTO equalisation fund – transfer fees for consideration – at the initiative of Jean-René Cazeneuve, and another for the communities contributing to the FNGIR – national fund for individual guarantee of resources. In addition, the resources of the territorial public institutions that exercise the essential skills within the Greater Paris metropolis, still waiting for institutional reform – we will discuss this again at this new reading, to refine our position – are being strengthened. Finally, we have adopted a recast of the rules for calculating DETR envelopes – equipment for rural areas – between departments, at the initiative of our colleague Christine Pires Beaune. The Finance Committee also proposes to retain the reform of the local tax system linked to the CIGEO project – an industrial geological storage centre – introduced by the Senate as a starting point for a reflection not quite completed three years ago. Households and self-employed persons are also supported by maintaining the specific withholding tax for non-residents, which allows for the solution of difficulties linked to the overall reform of their taxation, and by tax and social exemptions on aid paid to self-employed persons. Several measures are strengthening our ecological transition effort, such as the two-year extension of the organic farming tax credit, the increase in the exemption limit for the sustainable mobility package and the three-year extension of the "bike" tax reduction. Finally, we persist in our desire to find a tax that is legible. You know how much I care about this subject, so much the consent to tax depends on this readability. We have thus removed eight small additional taxes as well as the funeral tax. The Senate's contributions were significant. Our committee has strengthened many of them and has retained thirty-two items voted by our fellow senators. Two measures will better combat the health crisis. The first is the introduction of a zero VAT rate on vaccines and covid tests -19; In fact, our committee wanted this provision to apply as early as 2021, which explains why you found it in the first part. The second relates to the suspension of the waiting day for public officials whose cessation of illness is directly related to the covid -19 epidemic. Other measures also seem to me to be moving in the right direction. First of all, there is the extension of the "Coluche" scheme, reinforced for an additional year, with a ceiling of 1000 euros. In addition, we are making significant progress on glyphosate, with the introduction of a tax credit to help farmers abandon this herbicide and the guarantee of the resources of the ecophyto plan to the tune of 41 million euros. Finally, the tax credit for lenders changes in the first part, so that it also applies as early as 2021. In total, emergency measures and the deterioration of the macroeconomic scenario mean that the budget deficit, to which we will refer from the opening article, should be above 8 per cent of gross domestic product, which is much higher than that of the first reading, which was estimated at 6.7 per cent, on the basis of the information then in our possession. I believe that it will be important to develop, as early as the first few months of next year, a credible path back to the balance of our public accounts, given the growth momentum that the recovery plan must set in motion. The effect of the plan is estimated at 1.5 growth points as early as 2021. I would like to stress, after the Minister of Economy, that if we can assume and secure the presidential concept of "whatever it costs" in this crisis, both for urgency and for recovery, it is also because the Government and the majority have demonstrated, for three years, their budgetary seriousness in a calm time. We will have to demonstrate once again our ability to stabilize public debt through the control of the government deficit, particularly the structural deficit. What we have demonstrated before the crisis will have to be more so after it, in order to guarantee the credibility of the French signature, that is, the sustainability of our debt. I know that the Chairman of the Committee on Finance shares this concern and vigilance. We will closely observe the conclusions of the commission chaired by Jean Arthuis, set up by the Government on the subject. It can do useful work by enlightening our own work, which we will have to amplify and refine. We will need to look at these issues in order to probably rethink governance of public finances and adopt more effectively budgets that are better managed by better accountability of public officials. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the meantime, the Finance Committee has chosen to adopt the finance bill for 2021. I will invite you to do the same – once we have completed our examination, between tonight and tomorrow evening late, in view of the work on re-establishing the text that our Finance Committee has done, in a rather classic exercise after the failure of the CMP, which everyone understands well. The Finance Committee has tabled numerous amendments aimed at re-establishing the articles deleted by the Senate; I will not give much explanation to the bench, in order to focus our discussions on the novelties of this version of the bill, namely the reloading of the mission "Emergency plan in the face of the health crisis", the new macroeconomic forecasts and the prospects for the highest possible growth, which remains the best source of our credibility to repay the new debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u30	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u31	In this last line of consideration of the 2021 Finance Bill, I would like to make a few comments. [[Minister Delegate smiles]] First of all, let us note that the Government has innovated because it presents to us the first collective budget 2021... Indeed, you move more than 20 billion euros and you transform the introductory article: this text therefore strangely resembles a bill of amending finance. As early as October, we told you that the finance bill for 2021 was only indicative. We were right – we didn't have to be big clerics to understand it. We asked you to develop several dynamic scenarios to give us visibility, but you didn't want to. Basically, the best scenario is the gradual transformation of the budget. Of course, this one is very strong and does not go in the right direction, but the news dictates it. The public debt is going to explode, the Minister of the Economy as the Associate Minister for Public Accounts said, and exceed 122% of GDP. It will increase in two years by more than 400 billion euros, which is 100 billion more than in 2009 and 2010. Perhaps the current crisis is deeper and more difficult, but the figures are there. The mixture of "whatever it costs" and "at the same time" is surprising: it leads to recession and debt. This year, we are going to borrow roughly the same amount as pensions paid, which amounts to around 320 billion euros; We're going to borrow a little less, but the order of thought is the same. The question of our ability to sustain such a debt arises; You know that, but now we have to act. I don't know if you've read the latest Goncourt prize, very interesting: the author, Hervé Le Tellier, duplicates a plane with his passengers. Bercy has some tendency to duplicate debt at the same pace and to initiate a permanent mechanism to reallocate and increase debt, which will soon become unsustainable. Jean Arthuis – I was heard earlier by the committee he chairs – calls for debt stability. Let's start by stabilising her immediately! You are allocating 6 billion or 8 billion euros of fresh money – I have not quite understood the exact amount, we will see that during the debate – among the 20 billion euros you are reassigning on the spending lines, in order to try to deal with the urgency. You are doing well and I am in favour of these measures, because the permit holders and the holders of precarious contracts must be helped thanks to an abundance of the solidarity fund. Nevertheless, you have to arbitrate between medium- and long-term spending and short-term spending. You can't accumulate the expenses! There can be no stacking of public spending, which leads the debt to become unsustainable. As long as interest rates are low, it is sustainable, as you have said, but, as you have also pointed out, it will have to be repaid in one way or another. The debt rate is worrying and you should finance the new and necessary emergency measures with constant debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u32	With the wealth tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u33	It's not insulting the future to do it! You have to arbitrate in favour of the short term when there is an emergency, but a lot of the credits you have put in the medium and long term will remain, because they are much higher than the short-term measures. We have, in my view, received on Friday the list of new sectors S1 and S1a, which make eligibility conditional on certain measures. There are 185 sectors, which are listed over five pages! Reason according to turnover! This list of sectors is quite messy, especially at the time of the award of literary prizes. It has real value, but still, still! It is felt that tens or hundreds of public servants and departments are working to add forgotten areas to the list. There will always be new ones and all readability will be gone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u34	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u35	Finally, as I said at the beginning of my speech, someone will have to pay the debt one day. If we want to avoid increasing compulsory levies which are already far too high, we must increase the potential growth of our country, but this requires structural reforms, which is complicated. Minister of the Economy, you are calling for pension reform. I have the impression that you are one of the only ones doing this in your camp: I don't know if it's a good thinking or if the Government is thinking about it, but the need for structural reforms is beyond doubt. Without them, potential growth will not increase. The real control of public spending is accompanied by this requirement. That is the only way to resolve the debt issue. We are far from it, whereas this subject is not for tomorrow but for today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u36	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u37	Tyres: Bridgestone employs 800 employees at its Bethune site. Bridgestone received more than €1 million from the city in 2007, in return for 50 jobs. In the end, between 2007 and 2015, it will have eliminated 97 of them. Bridgestone received €1.8 million from CICE – Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit – in 2018. Bridgestone benefited from partial unemployment measures during confinement. Bridgestone received €24 million to develop its plant in Poland. But – because there is a "but" – Bridgestone has announced the closure of its site, thus eliminating its 800 jobs, to relocate to Hungary and Poland. Industry: General Electric, which has received 200 million CICE and research tax credit since Alstom's acquisition in 2015, has paid over 117 billion to its shareholders in ten years. But here, because there is still one "but", General Electric, whose production is indispensable for the energy sector, announced in September a new social plan. More than 1000 jobs at the Villeurbanne site, where unique circuit breakers for hydro and nuclear power are manufactured worldwide, are threatened with relocation to Italy and China. Agri-Food: Danone, an agri-food giant, regularly receives public support. It received 1.6 million CICE in 2015. In April 2020, Danone went well and paid 1.5 billion dividends to its shareholders. But that's it, because there's always one "but", Danone announced 400 to 500 layoffs in France. Automobile: Renault received 5 million state aid to overcome the crisis. But that's it, because there's this "but" that resonates like a shame to you, Renault will remove 2500 jobs to achieve 2 billion savings in three years. Collective restoration: Sodexo, which reportedly benefited from approximately 248 million CICE from 2013 to 2018, also had access to public aid during the epidemic crisis. Over the past three years, Sodexo has paid 1.2 billion dividends to its shareholders. But here, because there is always this "but" that sticks to your skin like a stain, Sodexo announced a social plan of 2000 posts in France. Health: Peters Surgical, manufacturer of medical probes, posted a net profit of 5.9 million in 2018. Its Eurazeo investment fund received €660,000 in state aid and benefited from the so-called "free zone" scheme for its Bobigny site in Seine-Saint-Denis. Peters Surgical paid 2.5 million dividends to Eurazeo in 2019. During the covid-19 epidemic, the production of probes, essential for hospitals, increased from 6850 to 47500 per day. But here it is, because there is this terrible "but", the 60 employees are dismissed and the site relocated to India, despite my successive alerts. Pharmaceutical industry: Sanofi Group is well; It distributed almost 4 billion dividends to its shareholders on April 28, 2020. The state likes Sanofi to go well: every year, the group receives more than 130 million tax credits. But here, because there is one "but" still so unbearable, in ten years, Sanofi has eliminated 5000 jobs in France and closed eight sites. This affects both production and research and development. Already, medicines are no longer manufactured in France; molecules, such as paracetamol, too. Recently, the group announced that 1,000 jobs will disappear by 2022. Colleagues, ministers, forget your "we're the best." I tell you with a gravity that permeates every word: a social cyclone is falling on France. As of December 11, almost 80000 jobs are threatened or condemned. The number of job cuts since 1 March has been three times higher than last year. France will therefore experience the worsening of a new, severe epidemic: that of poverty. By the end of 2021, the unemployment rate is expected to exceed 10%. This economic storm is likely to take away much of our humanity. Behind these dismissals, there are faces, lives, families on the tile. Behind unemployment, there are dreams that break, common projects that cancel out, experiences and accumulated know-how that disappear. Behind poverty, there are lost dignitys, plates that are no longer filled, small pleasures that disappear.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u38	That's the point! If we don't vote the PLF, there's nothing left to eat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u39	In the face of this social tornado, we should be strong; But you're not strong. I am ashamed to read your finance bill, your PLFRs and your recovery plan. When you add, as before, sufficiency, it makes me totally angry. Yesterday there was a pedalo captain at the head of the country; There is now the commander of a raft. Faced with the first breath of the crisis, you were forced to change course a little, to modify your software, to accept a fact that you wanted to bury under tons of land of liberalism: yes, the state is useful and its intervention in the economy is necessary. But your compass still indicates the abandonment of public power. To the big groups, you gave a lot of money to the French. When I add up all the amending finance bills, the finance bill, the stimulus plan, the CICE, the tax credit research, I total $90 billion, excluding carry-overs of guaranteed contributions and loans. The problem is not to help companies. I am thinking in particular of the restaurateurs, the event companies, the discotheque leaders who are mobilizing today before the National Assembly. The question is: Which companies are the priorities and how? Much of this money has indeed come back in the pockets of large companies, including those that are licencing. This money is that of the French; You distributed it as if, basically, it mattered little. For this is how these groups, who got rid of public money, answer you: by laughing in the face. Where did the ideas of nationalization go, Bruno Le Maire? Nationalization, at least temporary,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u40	We did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u41	... in the name of sovereignty, to prevent vultures from using covid-19 to relocate where it costs less: in India, China or elsewhere in Europe, benefiting from the vast encouragement of social dumping that is the current European Union. You who know how to ban everything: demonstrations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u42	There are protesters right now in front of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ... freedoms, culture, art, places of life, why can't you ban dismissals from companies that have received public aid but distribute millions of dividends to their shareholders? You who only have in your mouth the responsibility of the unemployed, the poor, the gallant, why have you never held the big bosses accountable? Why don't you ask for reimbursement of the aid to those who committed not to lay off? You do the opposite in the finance bills, rewarding them and the shareholders, with increasingly indecent tax gifts, even as you threaten the employees to attack their retirement system again. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You who are at war against everything and everyone, against covid-19 and against protesters, why are you not at war with those who, in ten years, have boned 45% of pharmaceutical research? Why aren't you "at war," as you say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u44	Make love, not war!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u45	... so that our country has enough researchers and is able to develop its own medicines and vaccines? [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups as well as on a few benches of the SOC group]] Ultimately, as a matter of health and industrial sovereignty, you have renounced any protective measures. You even rely on old liberal revenues – competitiveness, supply policy – to keep these companies. In the end, you let the deal go, and the deal was done without you, or rather with you. The money has been cashed, but it's all done without the French; the dismissals will still take place. Your helplessness makes you guilty; Your responsibility is absolutely immense. We will take ours: we call for rejection of the finance bill and we will soon show that a different future is possible for the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u46	In the explanations of vote on the motion to reject the floor, Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u47	This motion of rejection is the answer we must give to the majority that the account is not there. For a large majority of French and French, the account is not there. First, for the most fragile, who have been excluded from aid measures, the balance sheet is uplifting: an additional 1 million poor, in addition to the 9 million poor before the crisis. The account is not for the restaurateurs, the hoteliers, the sports halls, in short, all those who are sacrificed from the crisis of the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u48	Next time, it won't be six, but four!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u49	The account is not for the world of culture, poor parent of the revival, condemned to the closure of the structures. We support the motion to reject because you must be convinced that your stimulus plan cannot be achieved only with an offer policy. Helping businesses, yes, but provided they are at the service of employment or the environment. We support this motion because you must be convinced that recovery can also be achieved through policies of demand and purchasing power, for the most fragile, through a plan to boost consumption. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] We support this motion, because you deliberately refuse to use the most affluent resources by re-establishing the ISF – the wealth tax – and by imposing the highest incomes and involving the insurance sector. The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u50	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u51	Naturally, the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats Group will not vote in favour of the motion to reject. On the form, I find that the speech is neither argumentative nor explanatory:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u52	Yes! It was all very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u53	...this is not a rejection motion. You're making a diagnosis of many things, but it doesn't explain the PLF and has nothing to do with what we're voting for and what we're going to do. It is a formal remark, but I am quite disappointed because you sometimes bring more interesting things to the debate. On the substance, defending a motion of rejection means rejecting needs, difficulties and solutions; It also bothers me because it seems to me that, in the PLF, we have nevertheless tackled the investments, the difficulties and the problems of youth. Of course, everything is not settled, but we must move forward well; I believe that this has just been said in the presentation of the text as it was at first reading, it is necessary to implement the measures planned and to tackle the difficulties. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] This PLF, with a recovery plan that has been discussed several times and new announcements, seems to me to be much more prominent and much stronger now. We need to put a little positive into the lives of French people and businesses. The State and Parliament are working; There is no reason to reject joint work by the Senate, the National Assembly, the executive and oppositions who want to be constructive. We are here to move forward and the PLF seems to me to be a good step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u54	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u55	Nor will the Group of the European People's Party vote in favour of the motion to reject, a little for the same reasons as those just given by our colleague Christophe Jerretie. This budget gives rise to many expectations, both for companies and for employees. It complements the arrangements already introduced during the PLFRs for the year 2020. Of course, with an additional confinement committed in November, which did not allow, on the 15th of December, to reopen certain shops,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u56	It was decided by the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u57	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... whole sectors of activity – catering and tourism, for example – have no activity. More than ever, they need to be accompanied; The copy may not be perfect, but the PLF 2021 allows for a lot of answers, with the solidarity fund, partial unemployment and measures for young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u59	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u60	It is true that there is something surreal about this discussion on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u62	Chiche: What would happen if we adopted it? Well, we would operate on the provisional twelfth, on the basis of the previous year, that is, the one that ends.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u63	It is not our fault that the motion for referral to committee has been removed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u64	You might as well say that the money you need to deal with some of the consequences of the crisis – whether for or against – would fall. I don't think that's Mr Coquerel's wish. Mr. Coquerel loves criticizing the fact that companies are distributing dividends.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u65	All the way off, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u66	Moreover, Mr Coquerel, you have a little savings, like all the French, a small life insurance contract or what I know.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u67	Don't worry about me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u68	We're not on the stock market! We do not live in the same society as you, Monsieur de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u69	Do you think there would still be people to invest in businesses if they never received dividends? It seems obvious to me that no! Do not criticize the principle of dividend distribution; companies need to distribute them. You are right, in part, on one point:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u70	Ah! Tell us?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u71	[[Jacques Marilossian slams his desk]] ...the social problem. In fact, contrary to what Mr. Le Maire said, there are still holes in the racket, whether they were in CSDs, some of which are not entitled to unemployment, or those who work on an acting basis. The interim, which had fallen a lot, has returned, but there is still a whole series of categories not covered. But further reason not to vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand; Otherwise, the extension of the partial unemployment system would not defuse it. It is for these reasons that the Liberties and Territories Group will not vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u72	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u73	A motion of prior rejection is above all an opportunity to express our concern. Because that of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left is strong, I will vote on this motion. I take advantage of my two minutes of explanation of vote to respond to the minister, who outlined the three aspects of the finance bill: protecting, reinvigorating and restoring public finances. Dancing this waltz at three, you're gonna get your feet in the carpet. You have indeed protected the Sanofi, the Total and the Verallia which my colleague Coquerel referred to. They're big companies that pay dividends, but they're licencing. They are protected, but not their employees, who lose their jobs, like Bridgestone's. You are reinvigorating by lowering production taxes, thereby supporting large companies. Indeed, the ETIs will benefit from three quarters of the tax cuts, while the 560000 SMEs, TPEs, traders and artisans will receive crumbs: again, you have chosen to support the big ones, not the small ones. Your third time, the best, will be devoted to restoring public finances. I think we're going to hear until 2022 that we need to restore public finances! In liberal language, it means: "you will pay! You are announcing to the French the resumption of the reform of pensions, i.e. they will have to work later to repay the debt! To say that public finances must be restored is to say that there is no more money for hospitals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u74	They've never had so many!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u75	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] ...school and transportation, and we need to save money. In other words, you are announcing new sacrifices, and we do not want them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u76	You don't want anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u77	Mrs Dominique David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u78	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] Defend a motion of rejection on the strongest and most ambitious budget of the Fifth Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u79	Stay humble!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u80	Is everything okay?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u81	... frankly, you had to dare! You therefore want national representation to reject a new budget, which will enable us to face an unprecedented crisis. You refuse to grant the most vulnerable the help and accompaniment they deserve; you refuse our companies and their employees the measures necessary to safeguard their activities;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u82	No one believes you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u83	... you reject the recovery plan, its EUR 30 billion for the ecological transition and EUR 20 billion for solidarity, including EUR 6 billion for the health system; you refuse €6.5 billion for youth employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u84	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u85	You keep denouncing an alleged contempt...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u86	Of which you are still demonstrating by caricaturing my words!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u87	[[Exclaims on many benches]] ... and a pseudo-arrogance of the majority, but what do you manifest in refusing a budget text for which the Government has been working for weeks with all the stakeholders, which has been discussed at length by the two assemblies, and above all which is adapted to the needs of each and financially sound?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u88	Financially strong?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u89	I heard, Mr. Coquerel, your litany...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u90	Not a litany, a speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u91	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ...of the beneficiaries of the CICE, but the latter never intended to protect from the health crisis! Your shortcuts no longer impress anyone and your dogmatic proposals do not imprirate because they are in complete contradiction with the demands of the French and the realities they live in. As usual, you reject; Whatever the urgency, you reject; Whatever efforts are made, you reject! It's always too much or not enough! In fact, you reject the compromise that makes our democracy rich.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u92	With you, he's hard to find the compromise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u93	Whatever happens, you do politics, just politics, the most dogmatic and demagogic. (Applause from a few benches of the LaREM Group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group.) [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] However, you have a heart and a conscience, and I think that deep down, you hope that this motion of rejection will not be adopted, as the consequences, as you know, would be dramatic for our country. Don't worry, we Members of the La République Group are voting against this motion, and then we will vote in favour of this budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u94	Offer instead of scolding!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u95	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u96	The Republican Group will not vote in favour of this motion to reject...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u97	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u98	...because we do not share the concerns expressed to defend it. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] However, we are concerned. Mrs David said this was the most virtuous budget of the Fifth Republic. No! The dizzying deficit of the state has something to worry about, such as the debt that flies away. But you bring no solution, and so pass it on to future generations, to our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u99	You didn't have to do anything, did you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u100	We have already expressed these concerns quite often. The Senate has certainly introduced some interesting changes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u101	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u102	...and we hope to maintain some of them. It has thus adopted provisions aimed at restoring fiscal fairness between e-commerce and retail trade, in response to the concerns expressed here at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u103	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u104	We will defend it, and I hope you will keep it, because this is a matter of concern to our fellow citizens. Other provisions tend to strengthen purchasing power, such as the abolition of VAT on SNCF train tickets, adapted to the situation, or on covid-19 screening devices. We should also retain the spread of the increase in the car malus over five years, rather than three years, in order to make it more progressive. Indeed, I would like to point out that the movement of yellow vests has its origin in decisions taken here on the taxation of fuels: we must pay attention to these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u105	Thank you for your respectful explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u106	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u107	You already supported the president of the rich; With this budget, in the midst of a health, social and economic crisis, he watered the CAC 40 with public money, ruined the small traders, condemned the most precarious to social death.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u108	That's it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u109	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, you are right, colleagues of the Republic on the move, your policies have borne fruit: rich people have earned 1.7 million euros each thanks to your reform of the ISF; Of course, our country has 10 million poor people and 300,000 people on the street, but it's a strong rush into "Macronie"... You also support the president of authoritarian drift, the one who traps the demonstrators, who locks them up in turn, who covers us with shame all over the world by making the country of Enlightenment the country of trampled democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u110	Delirious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u111	She's talking about Mélenchon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u112	Stranger, you now support the president who despises you. A small example: we had voted against the abolition of ninety-five posts at the National Forestry Board, and now we learn in the press that it is maintained – indeed, the deletion is already included in the documents of the board of directors. No matter what the two votes in the two assemblies are and no matter what the Citizen's Climate Convention, which has become a symbol of your renunciation, which called for strengthening the NFB's resources. Leaving torpedoing a small victory, after years of job losses, Bercy was even considering 600 additional job cuts by 2026. Let us be crazy, why not privatize the public forestry service, in spite of the women and men who work there and the climate disruption? Deputy Minister, you said there is no room for negotiation on the NFB. I therefore inform you, colleagues, that when we think we are debating on behalf of the people, in fact, we are negotiating with the Government! We negotiate, and if the Government so wishes, to the extent possible, if it does not bother him, he may deign, in his immense goodness, to take into consideration what we say here. Close the National Assembly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u113	You don't have to scream!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u114	...pack up your business, democracy is cancelled! He tramples on the separation of powers, he despises national representation, he ignores our vote! This finance bill is one of shame: vote in favour of our motion to reject! (Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Protests on the benches of the LaREM group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u115	Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u116	Ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u117	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u118	It goes without saying that the Government's opinion is unfavorable and that the purely outrageous nature of the remarks I have just heard...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u119	Mrs. David's?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u120	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... only strengthens the conviction he shares with the majority: we are moving in the right direction. [[Mr Maxime Minot ssclaffe]] Mrs Panot, perhaps you will find out: yes, the majority and the Government are discussing it! The majority and the Government are working together. I will go even further: when the attitude of the opposition members is constructive, we work with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u121	Answer me on the bottom!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u122	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] The rapporteur-general recalled the provisions adopted on DETR, on the initiative of Christine Pires Beaune; certain provisions adopted by the Senate agree to us, as there are amendments from the LR group that are appropriate to us, that are in the right direction, and we are then working on their adoption. To cite just one example, discussions with the majority will result in ensuring a guaranteed minimum income for permits, extras and all those in difficulty, as Elizabeth Borne announced; The majority will shortly adopt the necessary appropriations! Discussions between the Government and the majority led to the protection of the most fragile.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u123	What about the NFB?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u124	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] The most fragile, you speak only of them, but you do nothing for them. You make it the chorus of your incantations, because you target their clientele,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u125	You, your customers, are the shareholders!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u126	...but they don't believe you, and they're right, because you've never done anything for them! The misery and precariousness make you feel better, it's your business, but we'll never let you thrive on it! (Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups. – Protests on the benches of the FI group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u127	And on the NFB, we won't know any more!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u128	Mr Coquerel, you yourself defended the motion to reject it beforehand. If you were willing to listen to the answers you are given, even if they do not satisfy you, the proper conduct of our debates would benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u129	But where was the dignity, in the intervention of the minister delegate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u130	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u131	We are entering the final straight line of the review of the finance bill in a radically degraded health situation compared to the end of September. This exceptional text provides for measures to support our businesses and economic recovery. It is part of the body of the budget that has mobilised us throughout 2020, with the adoption of four amending financial laws that attest to the reactivity of the public authorities in the face of the crisis. I welcome the extraordinary effort made since spring to amortize the health and economic shock. This is not sufficient, but simply a finding: important measures have been adopted for all companies. We can hope, in a few months, to be better protected from the epidemic and to have preserved the French entrepreneurial fabric through budgetary measures. The impact of containment during the review of this budget was more limited than that of spring, with a 12% decline in activity, compared to more than a third at the time. With 18.7% growth in the third quarter, the experience of decoupling proved that growth would rebound with activity. This is why it is both indispensable and relevant to finance this shield of the economy, consisting of the partial activity, the EMP – a state-guaranteed loan –, the solidarity fund and the postponements and cancellations of taxes and charges. However, companies have suffered a double shock: in balance sheet terms, some have increased their debt, sometimes by subscribing to the EMP, while others have degraded their own funds to amortise the crisis; the second shock was caused by a total loss of turnover, without a clear prospect of rebound in the short and medium terms. We will have to accompany them more than ever in the coming months. The challenges to our future are immense. The aim of this finance bill is to raise them, thanks to the introduction of a 100 billion stimulus plan. I will not have time to mention all the measures concerned, but three of them illustrate the three priorities of the recovery: the reduction of EUR 10 billion in production taxes makes it possible to envisage the rapid relocation of industrial activities in the territory, and not only for the benefit of large companies; the youth plan will offer a solution to the generation that has been weakened; Finally, the very important effort for the energy renovation of public buildings will help to preserve the environment – important announcements to this end have been made just now. The Democrats welcome this stimulus plan and, therefore, this finance bill. At the beginning of its consideration, we had reminded this rostrum of the two main areas in which we wanted to improve this text. Firstly, we want to support the transition of companies even better. While I regret that our amendments on the transformation of individual companies into companies allowing the provision of external capital could not be adopted, progress is welcome. An amendment by Jean-Noël Barrot extends the regime for the abandonment of claims to companies engaged in conciliation proceedings. The temporary corporate tax exemption created to resume industrial activity was also extended on our initiative. We have actively contributed to the leasing scheme, able to quickly create cash for businesses. Mohamed Laqhila will again propose his amendment on the scheme of CFE – business land assessment – for civil companies of means, deleted by the Senate. Our second area of interest is and will remain the preservation of the environment. An amendment by Jean-Luc Lagleize allows, by encouraging elevations, to fight urban sprawl. Another amendment by our colleague Justine Benin will facilitate the rehabilitation of housing overseas, with better seismic protection. On the agricultural side, I would like to welcome the work that has been done by Sophie Mette, which has led to the creation of a tax credit for the transition of farms to the high environmental value label. The creation of a tax credit to support the exit of the glyphosate makes us rejoice in the same way, and I hope that we can have our colleague Nicolas Turquois' amendment that opens it to farmers. During this new reading, we will work with our colleague Christophe Jerretie to better support communities in the crisis. We also wish to continue the debate on social diversity in our neighbourhoods, around our colleague François Pupponi. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group and on a few benches of the LaREM groups and Actir ens]] I hope, at last, that we have a calm debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u132	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u133	We are gathered here to review the 2021 Finance Bill again. This text remains imbued with the consequences of the 2020 pandemic, which unfortunately continues over and over again. I will not go back to the organization and pace of our debates, but it is difficult to be satisfied with their nature. Unfortunately, your certainties leave little room for the substantive debate, let alone our proposals for amendments. Yet, in this singular period, we would expect a democracy better; Perhaps our proposals deserve more attention. I am thinking in particular of those on corporate debt or on certain adjustments for particular sectors of activity, or of better-known proposals for those of our citizens most at risk, the most affected, the most vulnerable by the economic, health and social consequences of this crisis. What can be said when such a brutal crisis strikes the tricolor economy in full swing and plunges public finances into depths that have never been explored? What about the debt and its management, of which you talk little? Yet it will be a burden for our youth in the future; It is also a strategic element in economic and fiscal policy for the years to come, as for this budget 2021. We should land in 2021 at more than 120% of GDP – that's the stock, let's say. Admittedly, the responsibility lies also with past governments, but what about the expenses associated with your health and debt-creating decisions? Nothing but to express regret. One can only regret your deafness to the world of caregivers; regret the saga of masks that keep bouncing, from lying to lying; regret your first missed definity; regret your decisions depriving entire sectors of activity. Your risky and unfortunate decisions weigh heavily on the state of the debt and continue to brutally affect the budget for 2021. You are also planning an extension of 20 billion euros, as if to make up for your mistakes. There is also debt in the stock linked to the recovery plan. This good debt, based on the investment of the future and which repairs our planet, we find it far too timid; It is not up to the challenges highlighted by the Citizen's Climate Convention, while you are blaming many of the measures proposed by it. Containing debt is also about getting new revenue. Yet, as in 2021, all our proposals for a more supportive contribution from those who go very, very well, despite the pandemic have been swept away by a turnaround for 2020. On the other hand, you do not hesitate to put on the shoulders of social security part of this debt, and you reactivate until 2033 a tax that was to be extinguished in 2024. When it comes to paying, you know how to share with the most modest. In short, you leave us a level of debt resulting from your mistakes and partisan choices; We'll have to deal with it. In this situation, your answers for 2021 make us jump. You insist on ultraliberal policies, hoping for a rapid return to growth. Yet, as the second report of the tax reform evaluation committee on the ISF shows, these ultraliberal measures have had one consequence: the rich are becoming even richer. Runoff is a great utopia, but it doesn't matter! You continue your supply policy again and again, and you continue to cut our revenues by reducing production taxes – a structural response to a cyclical crisis. Go understand... Worse still, as the minister pointed out, you have commissioned a committee of ten experts chaired by former finance minister Jean Arthuis to propose scenarios for returning to balance of accounts, with a view to stabilizing and gradually reducing our public debt, all with the objective of lasting reductions in compulsory levies. In other words, it is public spending that is going to go through, which does not augur well for pensions, education, health, housing, unemployment insurance, the old age plan or public investment. As Christopher Dembik, responsible for macroeconomic research at Saxobank, pointed out, this is a "historical mistake": when the economy faces profound difficulties and structural changes, such as these times, it needs a protective state and public investment. Your vision of debt-debt is a bit of a gossip; It reminds us of the 2010s when the euro area countries put in place austerity and austerity plans that caused a real disaster. Unless your policies change radically, by adopting our amendments which defend a better balance between supply and demand policies, and a revival through consumption, the Socialist and Related Group will not vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u134	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u135	Here we are for the last straight line of an unprecedented budget marathon, at the end of a year that doesn't look like any other. On the same date last year, who could have imagined that we would be about to vote on a budget whose main figures give rise to vertigo? Because the health crisis that has plagued us since the beginning of the year has forced the Government to present us with an exceptional budget. Halfway between the indispensable support for the sectors most affected by the crisis and the need for recovery, the budget arsenal that we are about to examine at a new reading has been enriched by Parliament's work. Since the beginning of the crisis, parliamentarians have been constantly raising the difficulties encountered on the ground. We can, I believe, recognize that the Government has listened globally to the concerns that we have expressed to it. Taxation of SP95-E10, financing of the network of chambers of commerce and industry, tax credit for rents, support for our most affected local authorities: the examination of this finance bill for 2021 will already have allowed to co-build a serious and calibrated text. The new reading will be an opportunity to complete this text. Support for the actors most affected by the crisis and massive; it complements the exceptional measures deployed since the beginning of the crisis by successive amending financial laws. Never will a government have put in place such powerful support measures so quickly. On the occasion of the new reading, and because the removal of the confinement originally scheduled for 15 December is more restrictive than expected, an additional €8 billion is committed to support the cultural, catering, event or tourism sectors. At the same time, the revival is under way, notably through calls for projects, which are truly successful in our territories. It is therefore in a spirit of responsibility that we must approach the examination of this budget, because the points of concern remain. From a macroeconomic point of view, first of all, the situation in our public finances is worrying. By 2021, the deficit is expected to reach 8.5 percentage points of GDP; government debt is therefore expected to increase further to the dizzying 122.4 % of GDP ratio. It is therefore now clear that the only return to growth will not lead to a return to a sustainable debt rate in the longer term. We will therefore have to debate quickly on the trajectory of our public finances, because we will not be able to push back ad vitam æternam this major issue. From a microeconomic point of view, the support measures taken since last March have proved their effectiveness. The partial unemployment mechanism has preserved employees' purchasing power at an estimated cost of €34 billion in 2020; The rapidly deployed and continuously enriched solidarity fund is also an appropriate tool. But our independents, traders, artisans and restaurateurs are still facing major difficulties. Some see the work of a lifetime destroyed by this crisis that takes precedence over its passage. We are concerned about their financial and psychological state, and we will have to continue to accompany them forcefully. Finally, publics who were already in a very precarious situation before the crisis, as well as young people, find themselves in often unsustainable situations. The Government's response has been strong, and I am confident that we will continue to provide appropriate responses to each. In particular, I want to acknowledge the powerful mechanism of the "youth, a solution" plan. The economic aspect of crisis management is obviously a corollary to the health management of the epidemic. Our fellow citizens and our economy cannot resist a third confinement; We must therefore adapt our health policy as quickly as possible to stem the epidemic. As such, the vaccine obviously gives rise to immense hope, but it must not and cannot be the only axis of our policy. On this point, the Group of the European People's Party has made concrete proposals, in particular on the isolation of the sick. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group and on several benches of the Dem group]] In any case, our group supports the Government's economic policy, reflected in this budget, which we will, of course, again vote on.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u136	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u137	While the economic and social context remains extremely uncertain at the end of the year and the health situation is still very evolving, it is clear that this 2021 finance bill cannot be a budget like any other. It is a crisis budget, but it is also a defiant budget in the face of the challenges we face with resilience. Between the establishment of the state of emergency and the revival of our economic activity, this patchwork budget continues to change the trajectory of our public finances, with a public debt now expected to reach 122.4 % of GDP next year, making the recovery plan and the financial forecasts that underlie it anachronistic. Nevertheless, the extension of the accompanying arrangements until the summer of 2021 remains vital to stimulate the recovery of activity in our country in recession. Deputy Minister, several questions await an answer. In order to adapt this loan to the new containment, do you intend to review the cap on EMPs beyond 25% of turnover? What reference period will you remember? The most favourable for the calculation of turnover, namely 2019, or the average turnover over the last three years? Another question is that many restaurateurs, wage-earners and self-employed managers, are not compensated as conventional employees. What do you intend to do about it? Furthermore, we regret that the committee proposes to delete the article, introduced in the Senate by the rapporteur-general Jean-François Husson, which provided for an exceptional contribution based on premiums for insurance contracts, raised to 2% by a subamendment by Senator Vincent Delahaye, a member of the Centralist Union group. It should be recalled that dozens of disputes between the catering sector and insurers have been brought before the courts regarding the coverage of operating losses, which are rarely dealt with in the event of a pandemic. Why is the insurance sector not being further involved during this crisis, as we continue to pay our contributions? This is a logical question, which our fellow citizens have the right to ask themselves; insurers must play the game more than they have done since the beginning. Therefore, are you committed to ensuring that they continue to provide condominiums and buildings in which restaurants, bars or discotheques are located, without increasing insurance contributions? Among the merchants and restaurateurs in my constituency whom I met on this subject in Gérardmer, the boss of the discotheque told me that his insurer no longer wanted to take over the insurance of the condominium, except by drastically increasing the price of the subscriptions. Exceptional levies from insurers would also make it possible to finance small businesses, businesses and all those whose economic activity will be indispensable for the resumption of our productive fabric. Unfortunately, they risk disappearing if their daily expenses are not funded. We must also think, more than ever, of local and regional authorities, which are a decisive lever for the economic recovery of our territories. It would be desirable for the State to renew the possibility for municipalities and EPCIs – public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – to introduce a CFE discount in order to support companies affected by the health crisis. This possibility existed during the first confinement, provided that the decision was taken by 30 June. However, the municipal elections have been staggered and we have been campaigning throughout June, so many communities have not been able to make this decision. At least this possibility should be left to them again under the second confinement. I also regret that the rapporteur proposes the deletion of Article 22bb introduced in the Senate, which provides, in order to calculate the compensation of the departments for the allocation of the property tax on built properties – TFPB – departmental to the municipalities, as part of the abolition of the housing tax, to integrate in 2021 the dynamics of the departmental bases of TFPB observed between 2019 and 2020, by the allocation of a fraction of VAT. Let's not wait until the finances of our communities reach a point of no return! In short, because it contains stimulus and support measures for businesses that are indispensable – hoping that we will get an answer from both the minister and the rapporteur on the points I have raised – our IDU and independent group will vote mostly for this budget, while bearing in mind that it has not sufficiently anticipated the circumstances in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u138	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u139	The crisis we are going through is certainly unprecedented, both in its scale and in its duration. The increasing measures of partial reconfinition, both in our European neighbours and in our own countries, and the still active circulation of the virus, exceeding the most pessimistic forecasts, are not likely to shed light on a picture that is already very bleak. Programmed recession, collapse of activity and investment, contraction of solvent demand, impoverishment and redundancies: all this needs to be anticipated in order to better support our fellow citizens – employees, self-employed, TPE-SMEs. Efforts have been made to respond to the emergency; Of which act. But it is also necessary to get out of the box for too long: it is those of a liberal economic policy that offers billions to companies, even to those that compete, even to those that distribute dividends. These are the paths of a policy of revival through a draft and blind offer; the paths which fix for horizon budgetary constraints of another age, in the wake of an uncertain recovery; the paths that agitate the debt, yet illusory because of the negative rates, to justify the reform of pensions and other future planks. This is proof of the discussions in the Senate: despite a majority that cannot be said to be composed of patent Bolsheviks, our honourable senators have nevertheless been able to vote for trans-partisan measures that have been struck by common sense and for greater social and fiscal justice. Article 4e, deleted by the commission, finally introduced a genuine GAFA tax through the concept of permanent establishment, down from the tax ersatz proposed by the Government, which only takes into account the turnover resulting from the provision of certain services. While tax avoidance represents a huge amount of billions for GAFAs, your discount tax should not raise more than 400 million euros. In order to avoid the erosion of revenue, in addition to that of everyone's consent to tax, it is necessary, it would have been necessary to maintain this new article introduced by the Senate. Similarly, a majority of senators have agreed to vote on two exceptional taxes that have priority impact on crisis profitors: e-commerce and insurance. Unfortunately, for some companies or sectors of activity, the saying will hardly lie: cloudy water, good fishing. This is particularly the case for e-commerce companies, which, together with containment, are benefiting from a brutal distortion of free and undistorted pseudo-competition, which is completely inoperative in the period. The introduction of a 2% turnover tax on these companies would be a first step, certainly insufficient in terms of the actual additional profits, but a first step, which would have the merit of obtaining broad approval on the various banks of this House. Another cause for concern is that communities that have been financially exsangued for decades and were hard pressed during this crisis of the Covid-19. The departments will not be able to bear the loss of EUR 1 billion of revenue in compensation for the abolition of the housing tax, through a transfer of VAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u140	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u141	Do I have to remind you that more than a million of our fellow citizens are turning into poverty as a result of this crisis, which risks exploding the number of RSA beneficiaries? Do I have to remind you that the departments were already struggling to pay the bill because of the cuts in endowments and the subcontracting of austerity among the communities?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u142	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u143	In my department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, the alarm bell has been fired many times. That is why the La France insoumée group approved the deletion by the Senate of Article 22 bis, following an amendment by our Communist comrades. We will remain vigilant about the Government's attitude to this major budgetary issue. You will certainly boast of the few measures announced in the haste of the Government to abound the emergency plan: exceptional aid for the CROUS, expansion of the solidarity fund, aid for seasonal workers and for hotel extras, etc. Of course, we welcome this consideration, even late, of the growing impoverishment of society and especially of the younger ones. But it is the method that questions us: rather than having a genuine parliamentary debate or taking such measures that are in the general interest, measures that we have already proposed, we are all suspended from the will of obscurous arbitrations between ministries. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] If you constantly gargle with the republican epithet, do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the historical foundation of our Republic is the affirmation of the sovereignty of the people over the free determination of the nation's budget. People we represent, faced with all the arbitrariness of all governments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u144	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u145	This new reading will, for the majority, be an opportunity to re-establish very broadly the text adopted here at first reading. You make the choice to go back to some of the advances that the Senate has allowed; you keep some of them. It is therefore unsurprising that the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote against this finance bill for 2021, for four reasons. [[The speaker wielded a fake chocolate medal]] The first reason is that you have given up any structural economy and that you are massively financing public spending through debt. You tabled an amendment to the introductory article, bringing the public debt from 119.8 per cent in 2020 to 122.4 per cent of GDP in 2021. Mr President, on behalf of Parliament, I would like to make you a great believer in the order of public debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u146	Oh, oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u147	I'll give you this decoration later. I had already given it to your predecessor, Christian Eckert, for the crossing of the 100% threshold.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u148	You didn't have to take it back from her!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u149	In September 2020, you had a deficit of 6.7 points of GDP. It is now 8.5%: we are looking forward to the next amending finance bill! It is true that in 2020, public deficits increased from 2.2% in the initial finance law to 11.3% in the latest news: this is an additional 9.1 points of GDP, or 223 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u150	He's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u151	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u152	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u153	The debt interest burden – 37 billion – remains at a historically low level, thanks to very low interest rates. But the debt will reach almost 3000 billion euros at the end of 2021, or 100,000 euros per French family. In my house, Minister Delegate, this is equivalent to the value of a house. I would also point out that the state finances an increasing share of its expenditure, 150 billion out of 450 billion euros, i.e. a third, on credit. In other words, to balance the only operating budget of the state, all taxes – 271 billion for the state – would have to be increased by just over half. Deputy Minister, no structural economy has been achieved since you took over responsibility. It should also be recalled that the crisis alone does not explain our record debt: before it, French debt was already close to 100% of GDP, compared with just over 80% on average in the European Union. We have therefore addressed the crisis in a situation of weakness vis-à-vis our neighbours. We can only see this once again in 2021: no structural economy will be achieved and it will therefore be open bar until the presidential elections. Then we'll see. The second reason is that the social dimension of the recovery plan is insufficient. I will not go back to the announcement of the 100 billion recovery plan: by 2021, it is actually 22 billion from the state budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u154	So do you think we need to spend more money?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u155	The Liberties and Territories Group believes that this plan should support those most affected by the crisis. In recent months, an increasing number of French people have fallen into precariousness and poverty. The health crisis is continuing and the social crisis is growing. However, the mechanisms that you put in place are not up to the social emergency...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u156	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u157	...even though the Government has begun to take action. In order to combat the worsening of social inequalities, we believe that we need to change our approach and the crisis justifies it even more. Why do you systematically refuse to involve our most affluent compatriots in this effort? Our country needs tax justice. The period requires greater assistance to the victims of the crisis and greater involvement of the wealthy in the national solidarity effort. We should have a real debate on redistribution in favour of the most precarious.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u158	And he's the one who says it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u159	The third reason for the rejection of this text is that the environmental aspect of this draft budget needs to be strengthened. With regard to the environmental aspect, efforts are being made; we share your desire to make energy renewal a major focus of recovery; We welcome the expansion of the MaPrimeRenov' scheme, which was a long-standing demand from the Liberties and Territories Group. We are more sceptical about the means deployed: the increase in the appropriations provided for under the mission "Ecology" in the recovery plan makes it hardly possible to return to the level of public investment reached in 2018 by the ISCED – the tax credit for the energy transition. Fourth and last reason: it is a revival that is made to the detriment of the fiscal autonomy of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u160	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u161	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u162	The Liberties and Territories Group believes that local and regional authorities must be at the heart of this recovery. They provide more than 70% of public investment. This is why they need to be reassured about their future resources and their self-financing capacity. In this regard, I welcome the introduction of Rule 22 bis B by the Senate, which was further developed during the Committee's consideration by the Chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, Jean-René Cazeneuve. This article ensures a clause to safeguard the revenue of the communities and gives them greater visibility when finalizing their budget. The Libertés et territoires group wanted to maintain this advance in the Senate. However,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u163	Thank you for concluding Monsieur de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u164	...this recovery plan is at the expense of the fiscal autonomy of local and regional authorities. If the reduction in production taxes goes in the right direction, the mistake you make – again, and you are not the first – is to offset these tax losses with national tax shares and not with modern territorially based and fixed-rate taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u166	In conclusion, you know as we do, Minister Delegate, this budget for 2021 has already been exceeded. We will meet in a few weeks or a few months, for a first amending finance bill. Your budget for 2021 is short-sighted; That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote almost unanimously against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u167	Thank you, Mr. de Courson. I remind you that the regulation does not allow us to brand objects, even when it is a reward given to a member of the Government. [[Smile]] Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor. If you ever have a gift to give to the Minister Delegate, my dear colleague, I invite you to do so after the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u168	[[Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve exclaimed]] Your budget, in the end, is a bit like the Euromillions: a few big winners and a lot of losers. By the way, with you, chance does not matter: it is always the same people who take the bet, to the detriment of all the others. That is the reality of your budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u169	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u170	The precarious situation is exploding as never before in our country: an additional 1 million people have crossed the poverty line, including students and employees. But you are camping on all your refusals: refusal to increase the SMIC, while France will continue to champion dividends, 37 billion having been distributed this year by the companies of the CAC40; Refusal to condition the payment of public aid to companies on the fact that they hire – that would be the minimum – or commit themselves to climate change; Refusal to cancel dismissal plans, although they are not linked to the health crisis; Refusal to hire the 100,000 jobs that are lacking in our schools, hospitals, EHPADs and the home help sector. None of this will be included in your budget. However, after the Senate's consideration of the text, some elements could have reached consensus. I am thinking of the imposition of the GAFAMs and the tax on the giants of electronic commerce, which we proposed and which the Senate introduced, by retaining the notion of permanent establishment. Let us not be mistaken: we do not mean to tax small businesses that do online commerce by respecting all the rules of the game. On the other hand, we are thinking of Amazon, which is getting richer as never before, as its activity increased by 40% in the third quarter. Indeed, Amazon relocates its profits to Luxembourg and will not pay all the taxes it has to pay in France, unlike our SMEs. The GAFAMs pay nine times less tax than they should – I'm not saying it, it's your former Secretary of State Mounir Mahjoubi. The consensus is therefore broad, on the right as well as on the left, to act finally, without waiting for a hypothetical, and in any case improbable, decision at European level. The same applies to insurance. Like the Senate, we propose to make a real contribution, while you just ask them not to increase their deadlines. From you to me, you're still a little cut off from reality! Listen to the traders: you will hear that they are asking for 100% of their operating losses due to the crisis, for which they are in no way responsible. Why would the AXAs and consorts sit on a pile of gold when the small traders drink the broth? The finance bill for 2021, which should have been exceptional in view of the crisis, is in line with all the previous ones. The group of the Democratic and Republican Left made the calculation: the amount of tax cuts, tax exemptions and gifts of all kinds will amount to 71 billion euros, three quarters of which will benefit large companies, the small ones having to settle for crumbs. You're planning $71 billion to support the supply side and only $0.8 billion to fight poverty! If these aids to enterprises were to be accompanied by the obligation to maintain jobs, to relocate production, to reduce working time, to train employees, to hire young people and to allow old people to retire; In short, if you had adopted an ORSEC employment plan... But the opposite is the case: Airbus, Renault, Bridgestone, Nokia, Danone, Vallourec, General Electric in Belfort, Grid in Villeurbanne, Cargill, Verallia – I could quote dozens of examples – have announced a plan to safeguard employment – PSE – or a plan for lay-off; We are witnessing a bleed in our industry. Nothing is done to prevent these plans, to preserve our productions and our know-how, to garnish the order books. Your only answer, Minister Delegate, is to accompany the layoffs. In short, it's unemployment to gogo,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u171	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u172	...which is more, paid by us! In your place, we would have prevented any relocation, any lay-off plan when the company distributes dividends or has not implemented all the solutions to keep jobs: diversification, relocation of activity, training, reduction of working time, early retirement. Similarly, there are so many needs that we have to meet in our public services, in our municipalities. This is the meaning of Grigny's appeal, launched by this commune and many others who are asking only to guarantee equality to their citizens. Where is the billion expected for these communes? Finally, the United Nations called on states to declare "a state of climate emergency" in order to achieve carbon neutrality, and there is no time to waste. However, your budget does not provide the means to renovate 700000 housing units per year – compared to just 100,000 at the current pace – or to develop rail freight and free public transport. In short, your finance bill will resonate as an umpteenth very liberal budget, while the situation requires an industrial winback budget, a development budget for our public services, an ecological, social and solidarity budget. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] On behalf of the majority of our fellow citizens, on behalf of the workers, on behalf of those who are fighting for their jobs, for quality public services, for their commune, the Communist Members will not vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u173	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u174	France is facing an unprecedented economic crisis, affecting our businesses, our fellow citizens and our local and regional authorities. In the face of this crisis, the Government has been able to demonstrate reactivity...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u175	Not always!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u176	... and provide strong and immediate solutions, thanks to four major amending budgets, which we have adopted over the course of the year and of which we can collectively be proud. In the face of the latent uncertainties in which the health situation plunges us, our priority must be the revival of the economy. This is the case with an unprecedented €100 billion plan, organised around three strategic objectives, which I recall – it is always good to do so: the ecological transition, the development of the competitiveness of our companies, the strengthening of the social and territorial cohesion of our country. Who can be against these priorities? Who can be against this unprecedented effort? Who can be against this budget? With the help of Members and the rapporteur-general, the text out of the walls of this House is more ambitious than the text that was tabled; We were anxious to accompany each and every one of us, and we wanted to go even further. I will take three examples: to alleviate the fixed costs of our companies, we create a tax credit in favour of donors who agree to give up one to three months of rent; to speed up the ecological transition and implement the recommendations of the citizens' climate convention, we raise the sustainable mobility package by EUR 100; to support the cultural sector, we extend the tax arrangements that concern it. The text is largely amended by our colleagues in this chamber. Some of their contributions go in the right direction and must be, I believe, preserved. This is the case with the raising, until 2021, of the ceiling on donations to assist associations for people in difficulty and the suspension of the waiting day for public officials affected by the covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u177	You could have accepted it on first reading!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u178	In addition, we can collectively welcome the commitment made during the shuttle by the insurance sector. Thus, all companies forced to lower the curtain this year will benefit from free assistance coverage when the head of the company or the employee has been personally affected by the covid-19 and will see their insurance premium frozen in 2021. Parliament has made a strong effort to increase this sector's involvement in the national economic effort and in business support. Nevertheless, some issues are still being debated in our Assembly. This is the case, among other things, of indoor leisure enterprises, which the many months of closure have made particularly vulnerable. Our majority is committed to them and will propose various amendments aimed at providing them with specific support, so that they all spend this difficult period. In my capacity as chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization, I would like to respond to all those who would like to make it appear that we have done nothing to help local elected officials. The impact on local finances was, it is true, particularly strong in 2020. It must nevertheless be relativised, on the one hand, because it weighs only 3% of the actual revenue from the operation of local and regional authorities, on the other hand because it is less important than originally planned. Since the beginning of the crisis, we have increased the number of measures in favour of communities. I am proud to point out that almost €7 billion has been provided by the State in the form of compensation, advances or investment support. This considerable effort is unprecedented, and we continue with it in the budget for 2021: in favour of the regions, by fully compensating their future revenue losses from CVAE – contribution on the value added of companies – which will cost about 1.2 billion; in favour of the departments, in abundance their equalization and stabilization funds of 60 million and 200 million respectively; in favour of the communal bloc, by proposing an amendment aimed at renewing in 2021 the measures taken in the framework of PLFR 3, in line with the clear political message sent by our majority. Thus, the state will support all local and regional authorities and none of them will see its tax resources fall below the average of the last three years. By communicating this resource base to local elected officials early this year, we will continue, as we have done since the beginning of the health crisis, to give them visibility and reassure them of the level of future resources in their community, which will allow them to increase investments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The budget for 2021 is historic. Our businesses, our citizens and our communities need it. I therefore urge all of you, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the benches on which you sit, to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u179	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u180	We started the review of the finance bill for 2021 two months ago. However, in two months, far from improving, the health, economic and social situation of our country has worsened: a second confinement, new administrative closures, a recovery plan deployed at the worst moment. In October, we denounced the unrealistic assumptions of the Government, as well as the content of this budget, which is not commensurate with the crisis we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u181	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u182	At the end of the first reading, we were not much more satisfied, as the majority refused to accept all or almost all of the proposals, though responsible and useful, of the Republican Group. Nevertheless, we welcome the quality of the work that has been done by the Senate, which has allowed for many decisive and much-anticipated advances. While the majority did not want to listen to us here when we alerted him to the unequal treatment of local businesses and e-commerce, senators decided to introduce an exceptional contribution on the turnover of distance sales companies. We welcome this measure, which is absolutely necessary for small businesses that have undergone two episodes of administrative closure in just a few months. On the other hand, senators decided to smooth the increase in the car malus over five years, as opposed to three years originally planned. This is just as necessary. At first reading, we pointed to the brutality of this new tax, and we are pleased to have been heard by the Senate. The aim is to protect the French automotive sector and employment. Taking into account the difficulties encountered by our local authorities, the upper chamber also provided for the compensation, by means of a levy on the revenue of the State, of the losses of the proceeds of CVAE which will be incurred by the departments and the communal bloc in 2021. Finally, aware of the important role played by medical professionals throughout the health crisis, the Senate has removed the ceiling for exemption from overtime. These measures were intended to make the 2021 finance bill a real budget to support and revive our economy, in the face of a crisis that never ends. So we can only regret that they were all rejected by the majority when the Finance Committee examined the text last Friday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u183	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u184	In the face of the scale of the crisis, such unbridledness is hopeless.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u185	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u186	However, we hope that the debate that is opening today will help to lift the fog on certain points and save what can still be.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u187	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u188	The very small contribution of insurance to the operating losses of TPE-SMEs should not be obscured: on this point, we expect much more transparency and clarity. The Government was required by law to submit to Parliament, before the end of August, a report on the development of social exclusion in the first half of 2020. It was only given to us on 12 December, and again, following the requests of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance. However, we know that insurance must do much more in the health and economic crisis that strikes us. In addition, during the Joint Committee's consideration of the third PLFR for 2020, the majority committed themselves to supporting and protecting the tourism sector. This is a disappointment, since the funds allocated more specifically to leisure and attraction areas and cultural spaces still seem insufficient and do not always take into account their specificities. The effects of second containment on this industry are devastating. We hope to obtain the support of the majority and the Government on this subject: the survival of an entire economic sector depends on it. Finally, we welcome the abolition of a measure to redefine the scope of energy renovation work eligible for the reduced rate of VAT at 5.5%: like many others, the construction sector has suffered enough from the crisis to ensure that it is not forced to do so. We hope that this deletion will be maintained. By amendment, we will ask the Government to extend, in 2021, the possibility for municipalities and EPCIs to exempt from CFE the most fragile enterprises in their territory. Since the beginning of the health crisis and after four amending finance bills, we believe we have proven our responsibility. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the majority, who are far too systematically unaware of the opposition's proposals, for the simple reason that they come from the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u189	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u190	The removal of almost all the measures required by the Senate is sad proof of this. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Such a difficult health environment required working together and with responsibility: the 2021 finance bill could have been greatly enriched by the work of senators, but that will not be the case, because unfortunately your majority has been more sectarian than ever. We are very far from the new world you promised us! Under these conditions, Members of the Republican Group will vote against the budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u191	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u192	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u193	Closed fronts, back-to-back chairs and tables, lowered curtains, empty stadiums, ski lifts and empty boxes for all: the sectors of food, culture, sport, and so on, are the sick of this economic crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u194	And the great sacrifices!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u195	To try to minimize the impact of an inevitable shock, you continue – rightly – to put under infusion the companies forced to close and continue financing partial unemployment, with a new envelope of 20 billion euros. And because this is unfortunately not enough, new special support will therefore be provided: I think, for example, of the EUR 400 million allocated to ski resorts, as well as the 250 million envelope for airports, whose traffic is falling free. Two years ago, the Government assured that magic money did not exist, but since then, you seem to have found the formula to try to keep the head of a country that drinks the cup out of the water. To go further, the state chooses to give up some of its tax revenues, which are down by $22 billion. Inevitably, and mechanically, the budget deficit continues to grow to 8.5% of GDP in 2021, which will logically lead the government's debt to exceed 120% of GDP next year. A lot of consolation, however: we are in debt at a negative rate. Maiger compensation, it is true, but in these difficult times it is better to see the glass half full. As for the recession, it is expected to reach 11%: it is only half a bad news, because despite the fall, the second confinement seems to have been less harmful than expected. However, there is no reason to rejoice: the economic growth projections for the year 2021 will not allow us to return to pre-crisis levels. Growth is expected to range from 5% to 6%, according to Bercy. After nine months of health crisis and four amending finance bills, we are here to pass a finance bill endorsing the €100 billion recovery plan announced by the Head of Government on 3 September. Despite an approximate crisis management and a succession of sometimes incoherent decisions that have plunged the country into unprecedented mistrust, recognize several positive points. I am thinking of the relative territorialisation of the implementation of this PLF by deconcentrating appropriations to the prefects of departments and regions, or the recovery plan, designed so as to be co-piloted with the regions – this is a good point. I also welcome the reduction in production taxes: EUR 10 billion is not nothing. Despite some steps in the right direction, this finance bill will not be enough to restore confidence. What a pity that you did not allow to further support the local economy, by agreeing to review here and there the zoning of the Pinel device...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u196	But it's not for lack of asking!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u197	... or that of the urban free zones, which would have had the merit of supporting the local shops located in our city centres. Admit they need it! You have certainly extended the Pinel device until 31 December 2024, and it is happy, but why have you stopped in such a good way...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u198	Fear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u199	... and having refused the extension of the experiment carried out in Brittany or the possibility, for certain communes meeting certain well-defined criteria, of being classified in zone B1 rather than B2? There's an emergency, and you know it. Another incoherence: with state medical aid of more than 1 billion – destined, I would remind you, to treat foreigners in an irregular situation – and aid to the press which does not end up being distributed to newspapers often less and less read, it is difficult to explain to travel agencies, who are on the brink of bankruptcy, that it is complicated to create a compensation fund, or to appease the restaurateurs, who will have to tighten their teeth for several more weeks while a third is in danger of economic death. As for local shops, what a battle for the Prime Minister to finally accept their reopening! Your situation is not easy, I concede, and some have regretted the lack of legibility of your recovery plan. But today, our responsibility is heavy: work together and agree to consider the proposals we make. Once it's not customary, you could even listen to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u200	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u201	In this Christmas season, why not dream? You could even take into consideration our remarks: I have the candour to believe that they are not to be swept away with a backhand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u202	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u203	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u204	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u205	I now call the clauses of the 2021 Finance Bill, in the text passed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u206	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u207	I have tabled this amendment, which, you will say, has no scope but to display, because, at first reading, the Government's text provided for an actual deficit of 10.2 per cent of GDP for 2020, and a structural deficit of 1.2 per cent, i.e. 1 point less than the previous year. I thought these figures were totally surreal: the structural deficit cannot be reduced without reducing structural expenditure. The rapporteur-general then conceded to me that this column did not make much sense. It was not my surprise that the Senate increased the gap by raising the actual deficit to 11.3% and reducing the structural balance to -0.6%! I am even more surprised that the Government has retained the provisions of the Senate. The aim of this amendment is therefore to set the structural deficit at 2.8%, which is the average between 3.6% and 2.2%, i.e. between your initial 2021 forecast and 2019 execution. On the other hand, Minister Delegate, the structural balance for 2021 was set by an amendment from the Senate at -3.4%; you raise it to -3.8% by amendment No. 1215, which we will be considering shortly. Could you explain to us how we would achieve a structural balance of -0.6% in 2020, on the other hand, why, without affecting the forecasts for 2020, the actual balance being based on the figure of -11.3% which is not debated, you were correcting those for 2021?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u209	Indeed, the forecasts of this introductory article have been revised; It is a special feature of this second reading, which is easily understood in the light of the progression of an exceptional crisis. You are not wrong, Mr de Courson: the evolution of the structural balance, whether it is the forecast for 2020 or for 2021, has been a collective surprise. In fact, it is linked to the fact that emergency and recovery measures are considered to be exceptional and non-structural expenditure. We could discuss it for each of them, and it is true that some of them are somewhat hybrid, that is, they could remain in effect after the crisis. In any event, we should take note of the figures proposed by the Government, while accepting a certain instability of these public finance indicators: structural balance, cyclical balance, government deficit, debt. In an unstable situation itself, it is normal, and we must accept, that this introductory article evolves regularly. What is interesting, on the other hand, is the projection that we will have of this data once the crisis is behind us. I hope that the Government will be able to propose to Parliament, as soon as possible, a bill on public finance programming, so that in terms of structural balance we can define an objective, a target against which our public policies will be directed. At the heart of the crisis, once again, we must take this balance with humility and admit its instability; Tomorrow, on the contrary, it will play a central role in understanding recovery. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u211	First of all, I would like to make it clear that if I did not take the floor following the general debate, it is not to avoid answering questions, but because I reserve my answers for the debate that will be brought about by each article and every amendment. Mr de Courson asks me why the structural balance for 2020 is worse than expected and why we are setting it at -0.6%. There are two explanations for this. The first is that when growth and therefore production collapses, the revenue from compulsory levies deteriorates less rapidly: this elasticity leads to a form of facial improvement. I take it from this the need to look at these figures from a distance, and with humility, for the years of crisis. I also agree with the rapporteur-general on another point: in the context of a multi-annual programming bill, or in the context of the examination of growth forecasts at the time of the PSTAB, the stability programme, the development of the structural deficit is particularly important. The second explanation is that we had already proposed a structural deficit of 0.6%, which the House adopted during the examination of PLFR 4. Yes, Monsieur de Courson, I assure you: this figure had already been updated. On the other hand, we had not yet carried out an update for 2021. The opening article, as we propose today to adopt it, has therefore been amended to that effect when it is moved to the Senate: this last update reflects the new estimates, particularly with respect to expenditures. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice. [[Smile]] I would add – forgive me, Mr President – that, in order to guard against any attempt to take over the present that Mr de Courson has made to me, the members of my cabinet and I will eat the present in question in a few days' time. Congressman, thank you for the chocolate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u212	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u213	I anticipate the adoption of your amendment, because I have no doubt that the majority will vote in favour of it, as usual: we will then have a structural balance of -2.2% in 2019, -0.6% in 2020 and -3.8% in 2021, since this is your proposal, indeed reasonable, for next year. You can see that this -0.6% is impossible! It is to strengthen my own calculation, which consists of making the average of 2019 and 2021 so as not to completely decredivize the introductory article. At first reading, we were at -1.2%; The Senate has come up again with what you were proposing. We will not explain to the European Commission that we have improved the situation in 2020! That's what I'm criticizing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u214	Mr de Courson, do you withdraw your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u215	No, I'm holding it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u216	I have before me three amendments, Nos 71, 67 and 1215, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 71 and 67 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz are defended. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 1215.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u217	This is the Government's amendment, already mentioned, to update the introductory article, in order to take into account the measures planned in 2021. I referred earlier to the fact that, compared to the initial forecast of the public balance 2021 presented in September, we expect a reduction in compulsory levies and new measures to support activity, for 13.4 billion, bringing them to 20 billion. I do not list it, since I did so in the course of my speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u218	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u219	I thank the Government for these new directions in public finances. It must be pointed out that, since the first reading, there has been a shift which we must be aware of with some seriousness: the forecast of the public deficit being aggravated and that of the more prudent growth, to 6%, our public debt will also increase in 2021. We must tell our fellow citizens; We have to bear in mind that the crisis will have a serious impact on our debt and that the rebound of 2021 will not, at first, be enough to stabilize it. Further reason to be extremely ambitious in our recovery effort, so that by 2022, or even by 2021 to some extent, we can make these figures lie. Opinion in favour of the Government's amendment and against the other two.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u220	Are Amendments Nos 71 and 67 retained?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u221	[[Smile]] Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u222	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u223	Deputy Minister, you have committed yourself to providing us with the relief of 8.5% of the public deficit between the state, various central government bodies – ODAC – and social security and local and regional authorities. In general, you include it in the explanatory memorandum, but I have read it carefully: this distribution is not indicated in it. Could you clarify this point? In addition, in this explanatory memorandum, you recall the new growth or decline assumptions: - 11% for 2020, 6% for 2021. In its analysis of the economic situation, the Bank of France is more likely to account for 5%. Can you tell us how you have achieved the forecasts set out in your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u224	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u225	Your questions echo the previous debate: I did not mention on this occasion that emergency measures for the year 2020 are mostly considered to be ad hoc and therefore not integrated into the structural balance. The inclusion of these expenditures, and their nature, explains to a large extent the gap between 2020 and 2021. I do not have the precise breakdown of the 8.5% public deficit: I will send it to you. All I can say is that the government is responsible for the bulk of the deficit, as well as for the total deterioration of the deficit between 6.7% and 8.5%. It plays its role as an insurer as a last resort in times of crisis. The second item, in descending order, is social security. The local sphere comes very far behind or more precisely, with regard to 2021, does not come. Again, therefore, this deficit is essentially that of the State and marginally that of social security. The difference between our forecasts and those of the Banque de France is mainly explained by this: while year n is marked by a particularly strong recession, the rebound in n+1, by pure elasticity, by pure automatism, is stronger. Compared to other analyses and forecasts, except those of the Banque de France, our forecast of 6% growth in 2021 is quite reasonable, if not prudent. In addition, it follows a recession of 11% in 2020, while the 5.1% of the Bank of France comes after an estimated recession of 9.1%. This two-point gap in the assessment of the recession amply justifies 1 point difference in the forecast of the automatic rebound next year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u226	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u227	Mr Delegate, we would simply like a clarification: what is the impact of the fall in production taxes on your calculation of the structural balance?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u228	An impact of 10 billion a year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u229	Amendment No 95 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u230	He's unfavorable. Note that corporate income tax revenues are falling sharply, but income tax revenues are stable. This demonstrates the extent to which the purchasing power of the French was maintained during the crisis, in particular through partial activity and the social assistance implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u231	I have before me two amendments, Nos 503 and 98, which can be discussed jointly. The President of the Committee on Finance has the floor to support Amendment No. 503.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u232	As he had done at first reading, the Republicans' Group refers by this amendment to the chronicle of an announced debt, because it does not happen without causes. It must be observed that, whatever the scenario we propose, it will always be at a considerable level by 2025, around 120% of GDP. There may of course be good news and the situation might be more favourable, but even in the case of a rather optimistic scenario, the debt rate would still reach an extremely high level of about 117 per cent. The debt that France will raise on the markets next year is almost at the level of pensions paid to the French. These expenses are so sensitive that we can therefore question our country's ability to cope with them, its autonomy and even its sovereignty. Debt now amounts to two and a half years of tax and social income. It is not enough to say, as the Government is doing, that we are fully aware of the level of debt but that we will be concerned about it later. We need to stabilize her first. For this to happen, the new operating expenses – which we do not dispute – that the Government has planned to deal with the emergency need to be funded through the abolition of some of the expenditure currently included in the recovery plan. Between the short and medium term, it is necessary to arbitrate in favour of the first, even if the medium term is obviously necessary to generate additional potential growth. Otherwise, the Government will continue to increase and stack debt when it needs to be stabilized. Additional expenses to respond to the emergency must be made at constant indebtedness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u233	Amendment No 98 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u234	It is paradoxical, however, to propose the transfer of credits for recovery – hence to stimulate growth – in order to devote them mainly to urgency with the aim of controlling debt as quickly as possible. We really have two different visions of the situation, Mr. Woerth. For my part, I believe that it is a priority to give each other all the means to achieve the highest possible growth by 2021 – even though this target would be shifted over time, as shown by the new deficit and growth forecasts – even if it would shift the repayment and the stabilization of the debt. The macroeconomic and monetary situation allows us to cope with the crisis through debt. This, of course, does not mean that the debt will not have to be stabilised and repaid. But rushing to stabilize the debt in disregard of growth that could be reinforced by the credits of the "Relaunch" mission would, in my view, be a mistake. If we agree on this, we really do not share the same view on debt stabilization tools and when they will have to be activated. For my part, I think it would be unreasonable to consider it before 2022 because we would then strike our rebound capabilities, which must absolutely be our priority after the crisis that we have been through. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u235	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u236	It is also unfavourable, for the same reasons. I would add that debt control and, ultimately, debt reduction must also be at the centre of our concerns, first of all because we do not have the means to fail – it would be madness to think so – but also because debt cancellation is impossible at the present time. The work I mentioned in my speech before the general discussion is in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u237	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u238	Definitely, it is always difficult to arbitrate between expenses. The rapporteur-general's comments, which postponed the stabilisation of the debt until later, demonstrate this. But we cannot spend for everything – for the short, medium and long term – while at the same time embarking on a fiscal stimulus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u239	The Senate has forgotten it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u240	In an ideal world, it would be great, but it is impossible, even if the rates are very low – they will remain very low for a few years but one day we will be caught up by the patrol and by then, I am not sure that the necessary efforts will have been made. At the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government had announced efforts, but these were very limited and France approached the crisis in a situation of relative weakness compared to all the other countries – I insist: all the others. A feat is never an individual feat only; It must be compared to what others are doing – and look at the deficits in the euro area! Clearly, the Government will have to arbitrate. It is true that it is complicated and it takes courage. I too would like growth to accelerate; I too believe that structural reforms are necessary, and that we should invest. But the Government cannot compensate for all the country's short-term losses and invest in the medium and long term!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u241	And without taxation, moreover!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u242	You have to choose between spending, otherwise you may enter an endless cycle of hell. An effort to stabilize the debt of EUR 8 billion, in the face of an announced recovery plan of EUR 100 billion, would seem acceptable to me and would not burn all our investment vessels.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u243	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u244	Mr Woerth's amendment invites you, Minister Delegate, to explain to us how you envisage the evolution of public finances not only in 2021, but until 2024. In fact, you promised us a new programming bill – in accordance with the organic law, given the considerable slippage in public finances – for the middle of the year, it seems to me. Could you give us some insight into the Government's strategy? Will it continue to increase the debt in 2022 and 2023 or will it try to stabilize its evolution not in absolute terms, but in relation to GDP?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u245	[[Smile]] Before giving the floor to Mrs Véronique Louwagie and then to two other speakers, I would like to point out that almost a thousand amendments have been tabled on this text. Without betraying our discussions, Mr. Woerth, you have even asked me to complete the examination before the end of this sitting – which seems difficult to me... In any event, I understand that the House is debating your amendment, but I call on all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to be concise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u246	This amendment highlights the question that the Republicans have been asking for several weeks or even months: how does the Government plan to finance the debt? The citizens ask us this question every day! My colleagues I was discussing this with my colleagues Valérie Beauvais and Thibault Bazin: we are being questioned by our fellow citizens who are wondering who is going to pay, and are wondering about the origin of the billions of euros so spent. It is the Government's responsibility to answer that question. But we can blame you for not doing so, just as we accuse you of not taking advantage of the years of growth, since 2017, to eliminate the deficit, which would have captured the debt problem. The citizens ask you a question, Minister Delegate; You have to answer it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u248	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u249	[[Smiles and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] It seems to me important, above all, to differentiate between the stock of debt and subsequent flows. It is not the stock of debt that is a problem, as France has borrowed at very low rates. On the other hand, there are questions about future flows that will contribute to increasing debt. I believe it is imperative to stabilize deficits in order to stabilize the debt. Everyone seems surprised by your strategy of over-indebtedness – forgiveness, deleveraging...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u250	Revealing lapsus!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u251	The Government had asked the commission chaired by Mr. Arthuis to stabilize the debt while maintaining the same pattern of compulsory levies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u252	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u253	In other words, debt relief will necessarily be at the expense of public services, health care or retirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u254	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u255	That's why you have to cancel the debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u256	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u257	Mr Bricout asked you earlier about the impact that the fall in production taxes will have on the deficit and on the famous growth: what will be the situation? On the other hand, while it is necessary to choose between expenditure, some are incompressible, such as those for hospital, education or research. Is it possible for you to calculate, Mr.Minister Delegate, the positive effect that these spending could also have on recovery? It's a way of thinking you're completely occulting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u258	Yes, the government's spending is also revenue!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u259	Mr Jean-René Cazeneuve has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u260	I have just heard very good news from the benches on the left and the right of the House: we are spending too much.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u261	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u262	You're spending a lot of money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u263	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I deduce – perhaps I am naive – that almost none of the following amendments will be defended by its author! For two days, ladies and gentlemen, you are going to propose only an increase in spending, as honourable senators have done, which would like to increase the deficit by an additional EUR 20 or 25 billion! You cannot warn us of a deficit and spend two days defending the amendments you have tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u264	Did we say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u265	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u266	Thank you, Mr President, for giving us time to have this debate. It is indeed important that we refer to the introductory article and the mission "Emergency plan in the face of the health crisis", which changed between the first reading and the latter. It is also important, politically, for national representation to express itself on the future of our debt under this PLF. Mr Woerth, the choice that you suggest to make between urgency and recovery would, in my view, be mortiferous. It would prevent us from achieving the necessary growth rebound. It is probably this breath, this fuel, that missed during the previous crisis to revive the French economy; In the end, compulsory levies had to be increased because public finances were exsanguous. We want to avoid having to increase household and business taxes at all costs; To do this, we need to know how to invest today. It is true that we are starting the debt pump even further, that we reached 120% of GDP in 2020 and may reach 122% by 2021. We do, because that is how we can stabilize and reduce debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u267	Depends on who it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u268	Playing small arms today, in terms of spending and investments, would be the best way not to rebound strongly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u270	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u271	Clearly, the question of debt repayment arises. We have several objectives. The first is to stabilize the debt against GDP, after the increase we anticipate in 2021, and then reduce it. I agree with the rapporteur-general that this path will necessarily take several years, if only because we still need to finance recovery or emergency expenditure in 2021. We hope that, in the long run, the debt will be repaid or, at least, its weight will be reduced as a share of GDP, thanks to the growth and revenue it will generate. We also refuse to increase compulsory levies, as we constantly repeat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u272	What about the CRDS?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u273	In the coming months, we will have to work together. A commission is responsible for making recommendations to us, and that is a fact. But we will, of course, also take into account the proposals made by parliamentarians to draw our multi-annual vision of debt, the level of public expenditure, the recovery path and the evolution of compulsory levies – at least initially, with a view to the exchange we must have with the European Commission on the stability programme. It is this work that awaits us, and I reaffirm our will: to create the strongest possible revival. We estimate that the recovery plan will generate 1.5 growth points in 2021. We hope to return to the level of wealth production at the end of 2019 by the end of 2022 and then continue on the path of wealth-producing growth, always without increasing the compulsory levies. The coming months – especially next spring – will be an opportunity to have these debates on the multi-year vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u274	We are considering the first part of the finance bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u275	I have before me two amendments, Nos 430 and 829, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 430.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u276	This amendment, drawn up by our colleague Jean-Paul Dufrègne in the framework of a bill which he defended on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, aims to introduce a truly progressive scale of income tax, since it would consist of eleven instalments against five today, which would, on the one hand, reduce the income tax of the first instalments, and, on the other hand, ensure that the higher bands, corresponding to those who earn the most, pay more tax and thus participate more in the national effort. The effect of this proposal would be to reduce the amount of tax for a single person earning up to €3900 per month – which is already a good salary – and to increase it for those who earn more than that amount. It would maintain at its current level of €73 billion the return on income tax, while your choice to lower the income tax of middle and low-income families without taxing higher incomes translates into a dry loss for the state budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u277	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 829.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u278	This amendment proposes to raise the tax thresholds from 0.2% to 0.8% in order to give households a little more purchasing power and to contribute to the return to economic equilibrium by encouraging a revival through consumption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u280	It is this majority that has lowered the income tax of all the French who pay it, to the tune of 5 billion euros from 2020. It was this majority that reduced compulsory household levies by €22 billion, but also corporate taxes for the same amount – which benefited employment. It was therefore this majority which reduced the compulsory levies as no other had done. As to who needs to be taxed the most, we have just introduced progressivity into income tax by reducing the first instalment to an entry rate of 11%. What you ask, we did before the crisis, and we continue to do so by not increasing tax rates. I therefore express an opinion against these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u281	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 830.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u282	Article 2 of the PLF aims to neutralize the effects of 2020 inflation on income tax. With Amendment No 830, we want to introduce an exception for the highest income tax bracket, which represents the 1 % of the most affluent French. In the context of the current crisis, it is in a way a question of asking for a greater contribution from those who are doing rather well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u284	Your amendment would increase taxes, which we do not accept. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u285	Mr Alain David, in support of Amendment No. 831, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u286	This amendment aims to create for 2021 and 2022, i.e. the time of the recovery plan, a fifth instalment of income tax, increased by four points compared to the previous one and applicable only to the 0.1% of higher incomes. This equity measure will help to limit the explosion of inequalities caused by the measures at the beginning of the mandate and highlighted by INSEE.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u288	Even if I understand the purpose of your amendment, I am embarrassed by the idea that you let it appear, that the income tax would not be progressive enough. In reality, income tax is highly progressive: it is probably one of the most progressive and redistributive taxes in the world. Today, 10% of the taxable population pays 70% of income tax. This may not be considered enough, but it cannot be said that it is neither redistributive nor progressive. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u290	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u291	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u292	It is understandable, Mr rapporteur-general, that you do not want to pay taxes, let alone tax exemptions for the richest. These analyses must be stopped, suggesting that French taxation would consist essentially of income tax, while income tax accounts for 20 per cent, or more. Taxation is much less redistributive than you say if, instead of considering only income tax, you take into account all the taxes and contributions that weigh on people: we see that your richest 1% are more than right in comparison with the middle classes and, in terms of income tax, even better than all French people who, if they do not pay income tax, pay VAT and all kinds of other taxes and taxes. So you have to stop telling this fable! The problem is that by reducing income tax and its importance in overall taxation, you have made taxation less redistributive – you have not been the first to do so. That is why the proposal to increase the number of tranches – our communist colleagues propose eleven for a fifth temporary tranche, we propose fourteen – is necessary but will at most only help to shorten the policy of inequality that has been in place for years, in particular with the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u293	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u294	For my part, I find the idea of a fifth tranche interesting, because this is or the increase of the contribution on the very high revenues that was proposed to you otherwise... What is disturbing is that during this period of crisis when some people would have the means to contribute more to national solidarity, you refuse to make them contribute on the grounds that you do not want to increase household taxation. However, when we talk about households, we talk about tens of millions of French, and not just the most affluent 0.01%. Despite all the respect I have for you, Mr Saint-Martin, I am sorry, but the extension of the CRDS is a compulsory levy on households, as you know very well, since it strikes absolutely all incomes, including the very low ones, and even covers unemployment benefits and daily allowances paid by social security. Yes, by postponing a portion of the debt resulting from the covid-19 to the social debt amortization fund – CADES – which in turn will be financed by an extension of the CRDS, you are putting a portion of that debt on households. I can understand that you are refusing to introduce an increase in taxes on very high incomes and on the financial profits of large companies, but the problem is that, at the same time, you are making use of low- and middle-income households, in particular through reforms in unemployment insurance and pensions. I am very afraid that the Arthuis committee on the future of public finances, which must decide on the French debt, will do so in the same way as a new troika, in accordance with the road map already drafted, stipulating that there should be no increase in taxes on businesses and that only French households should be involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u295	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u296	I have before me five amendments, Nos 20, 72, 308, 136 and 616, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 20, 72 and 308 are identical. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u297	Mr Minister Delegate, Mr rapporteur-general, with your majority, you are a continuation of the Socialists in the field of family policy, since you have confirmed the plan on the family quotient that affects the purchasing power of middle-class families. The result of your absence from family policy is that the birth rate has been falling in France for several years, even though it was an asset. Amendment No 20, tabled by the Republican Group on the initiative of our colleague Marc Le Fur, aims to restore the family quotient to its 2012 level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u298	Amendments Nos 72 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz and 308 by Mr Fabien Di Filippo are being defended. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u299	This is a more modest amendment, but its presentation allows me to express in advance the following amendment, which aims to restore the original plan. In his explanatory memorandum, Mr General, you refer to the non-distributive effects of the family quotient. Family policy does not aim at this, but at supporting the birth rate! On 9 April 2017, presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron himself claimed that France's strength lies in its demographic vitality, and proposed to restore the family quotient. He said that planing was a problem, and that it is an element of justice to accompany families. What do you do with this promise? I feel a little bit like when it comes to family policy, you're limping on your left leg...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u300	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No 616 of the Committee and to give the committee's opinion on all the amendments under joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u301	The problem, when we talk about household taxation, is that we are often caught between those who accuse us of limping from the left leg and those who accuse us of limping from the right leg. Under these conditions, we risk amputation and, if we don't take care of it, we could even end up ass-de-jatte!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u302	You wouldn't be on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u303	Amendment No 616 does indeed propose to restore the ceiling of the family quotient as it was at first reading of the National Assembly. As far as the other amendments under discussion are concerned, I understand their purpose, and we do not intend to pursue a tax policy against families. However, the adoption of these amendments would be tantamount to favouring the most affluent households, which I do not think is reasonable in the present period. In order to begin to benefit from the provisions of your amendment, Mr Bazin, a couple with three children would need to receive income of 7,000 euros, which is well above the median income of families; Clearly, your amendment would favour the most affluent families, which is not desirable. Opinion against all amendments under joint discussion except that of the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u304	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u305	It is hardly surprising that these debates which we have already had at first reading are coming back again, since this is also an opportunity to remind each other of their positions. For its part, the Government was in favour of re-establishing the text adopted in the National Assembly. I therefore express an opinion in favour of Amendment No 616 by the Committee on Finance and against all the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u306	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 617.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u307	The purpose of this amendment is to delete an article introduced by the Senate, which provided for an increase in the lump sum deduction for professional expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u308	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 618.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u309	This amendment is intended to delete the article introduced by the Senate granting widows and widowers living alone an additional half share of family quotients. We have already had a long debate on this point at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u310	I have before me two deletion amendments, Nos 619 and 896. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 619.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u311	This amendment is intended to delete the article of the Senate which removes the annual ceilings of 5000 euros and 7500 euros for the exemption from income tax on additional working time of hospital medical professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u312	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 896.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u313	The purpose of Amendment No 896 is to reverse the article aimed at removing the EUR 5000 ceiling on the non-taxation of additional working time for hospital medical professionals. While solutions to the public hospital's attractiveness deficit need to be found, we believe that they are not in the defiance of overtime and the increase in working time, but rather in better working, consideration and pay conditions. It is no longer time to "work more to earn more", but to pay fair wages in view of the essential role of professionals in our hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u314	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u315	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u316	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u317	I mean my astonishment at these deletion amendments. The reason hospital medical professionals did overtime was because we asked them and not because they wanted to. These overtime, it was very important that they perform them during the first confinement, and it is still true at this time: we solicit them a great deal. The rate of absenteeism in hospitals is very high because many of them are affected by covid-19. These overtime hours are necessary because hospitals face great difficulties. Removing the ceiling for the defiscalization of these overtime is a fair measure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u318	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u319	It's not consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u320	... a support measure, a measure of recognition of all the work done by these hospital medical professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u321	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u322	A word to reassure you, Mrs. Louwagie. Your argument would stand if the level of wages concerned did not have to be taken into account. However, with an annual ceiling of EUR 5000, 94% of the French, public and private sectors benefit from the challenge of working overtime. And this ceiling has been increased to €7500 in PLFR. Deplafing or overplafing, as proposed by the Senate, would lead to this tax exemption for men and women whose incomes are not commensurate with those of caregivers and nurses. I repeat, with a ceiling of 5000 euros – outside of the surcharge voted this year – 94% of French overtime workers are already covered.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u323	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u324	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u325	Minister, let me tell you that your argument is not valid. To the heads of service who earn 7000 to 10000 euros a month, who have mobilized intensively, who have worked a lot of overtime to meet the needs, who are often exhausted and who fear only one thing, the arrival of a third wave, how are you going to explain that their additional income will be recovered by the state to the tune of 60% and that they will remain with only 40%, if they are in the upper marginal bands? That is the question. You think that's normal, but if they'd refused to work overtime, what would it have been? The hospitals would have collapsed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u326	But overtime is paid, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u327	From time to time, we need to know how to reward those who give themselves to the detriment of their own health. Your argument comes from an archaic left for which it is normal for the state to take 60% beyond a certain level of income. What if they refused, what state would the country be in?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u328	These overtime hours are paid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u329	Of course, that's absurd!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u330	Moreover, this is an exceptional and not a recurring measure. It is still important to pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u331	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u332	Your "archaic left" formula, Mr de Courson, prompted the rapporteur-general to take the floor again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u333	I know we're all tired at the end of the budget period but from there to say that we drink and are archaic... More seriously, do not suggest that these overtime hours would be amputated with anything. Of course, they are paid. We are talking about a cap on defiscalisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u334	Yes, we are talking about the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u335	However, this ceiling already covers 95 % of the French, as Mr Deputé said very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u336	What about the 5% that's not covered?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u337	Let us not adopt the logic of ever more to the absurd. In view of the exceptional circumstances, this defiscalisation ceiling was temporarily raised in a PLFR. Don't say that people who work overtime as a result of the crisis are not paid for this extra work time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u338	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u339	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u340	They are, of course, paid in this capacity. However, these revenues are subject to a defiscalization ceiling that seems to me to be quite consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u341	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u342	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 620.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u343	It aims to delete this Article 2 bis D, which provides for an experimental extension of the scope of sponsorship, in particular to local public companies – SPL – with a cultural vocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u345	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u346	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u347	The Republican Group opposes this amendment to delete the operative part introduced by the Senate, which we tried to add by way of an amendment at first reading. The aim is to open up on an experimental basis the possibility of using patronage for cultural PLS. Like many other players in the world of culture, these societies face unprecedented difficulties, including serious cash flow problems. Local and regional authorities, which also suffer from the scarcity of their resources, are increasingly using patrons to develop their cultural policies. We therefore hope that this experiment aimed at opening up the field of patronage to cultural PLS will be maintained. It would have the merit of responding to the demands of these actors and would be able to revive the cultural and economic dynamism in many territories, when cultural events will be able to stick to it again – as soon as possible, we hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u348	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor to support Amendment No. 621.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u349	It provides for the deletion of Article 2 bis E introduced by the Senate, which proposes to subject to income tax the gains made by investment clubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u350	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 622 and 897. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 622.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u351	Section 2 quater A, introduced by the Senate, removes for income received or realized on or after January 1, 2020 the increased minimum tax rate applicable to non-residents for the portion of income that exceeds the upper limit of the second instalment of the income tax schedule. We propose to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u352	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 897.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u353	This article removes the increase in the minimum tax rate to 30% for the fraction of income above 27519 euros of French foreigners. We also call for its abolition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u354	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 623 and 898. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 623.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u355	Request to delete this article introduced by the Senate, which provides that non-resident taxpayers may deduct from their global income the compensatory benefits paid in the event of divorce.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u356	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 898.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u357	This deletion of the article has been perfectly justified by the rapporteur-general, who here is more of the left leg: we therefore agree with him...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u358	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 624.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u359	This time, it is about deleting an article introduced by the Senate that opens the possibility for non-resident taxpayers to benefit from the tax reduction for donations made by individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u360	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 625.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u361	We propose that you delete an article in the Senate to exempt from tax and stamp duty the issuance and renewal of residence permits for foreigners married to French nationals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u362	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 343 and 834. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 343.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u363	By proposing to delete Article 3, we are opposed to the reduction of 10 billion production taxes. I would like to return to the debate we had earlier on debt. For years, the main reasons for its increase have been in the decline in revenue, not in the increase in public expenditure, as it is said, since it is being planed every year more and more. The decline in revenues, the most serious studies show this, particularly those of the INSEE, always favours the richest of our citizens, always. As far as business is concerned, this reduction in taxation has no consequences in terms of job creation and investment. On the other hand, France holds record levels in Europe in the distribution of dividends, including in times of crisis, while it could be expected that efforts would be made on this side to participate in national solidarity. All of this policy, which tends to increase deficits by decreasing revenues by favouring the richest, then allows you to appeal for lower public spending and strict policies, justified by the very increase in debt. The only victims are those who never benefit from tax cuts; They suffer a double penalty by benefiting from fewer public services and less national solidarity, which, as we know, are all the more necessary as we have fewer incomes. From this point of view, the reduction of production taxes, beyond its impact on local authorities who will still lose their autonomy...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u364	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u365	... without it being certain that they receive compensation to the nearest euro, in view of what has been observed in the recent past, is a very bad blow to the country, since there will be less revenue and even more deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u366	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 834.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u367	Article 3 has three purposes: it lowers the rate of CVAE by 50 %, which is to eliminate the proportion of this contribution devolved to the regions, which currently receive half of its product; it compensates for this loss of revenue by allocating a portion of VAT to the regions; it increases the territorial economic contribution ceiling from 3% to 2%. We are not opposed to a reflection on the possible evolution of certain production taxes, but we do not share the choices made by the Government in the framework of the PLF 2021, hence this request for the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u368	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u369	Unfavorable opinion: I do not wish us to delete section 3. We have discussed at length the reduction of production taxes, which is an essential component of the recovery plan. It's not about giving gifts to anyone, it's about being consistent. If we want to regain our economic sovereignty, then we must have a tax similar to that of other countries. By far, however, France is the country with the highest taxation on its production sites. We must correct this in order to create more competitiveness in favour of the industrial fabric, thus in favour of the employment of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u370	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u371	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u372	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u373	I would point out that the reduction in production taxes has a return coefficient of 0.3 against a factor 1 for measures on demand; In other words, the effect is three times less in terms of the impact of public expenditure. That's the reality! It should not be said that public investment and demand will be promoted through this measure. All this is wrong, archi-false. We have been verifying this for years that this type of policy is being implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u374	Amendment No 190 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u375	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-14-O1119.u376	Next sitting, at 21:00: Further to the discussion, in new reading, of the 2021 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
