ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u1	The next item is the debate on the theme: "Definitation, what implementation after a week? » Before we begin our work, I would like to remind you that the health rules that you know naturally continue to prevail: cleaning up the hemicycle before and after each sitting, and microphones during the sitting; Speakers are encouraged not to put their hands on microphones and use different microphones; distances between participants must be respected; the entrances and exits are staggered. Finally, let me remind you that speakers are asked to speak from their bench, not from the rostrum. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u2	We are now a week after the beginning of the de-consolidation implemented by the Government in our country. The time has come to start taking stock of it. First of all, it has to be noted that this definity has allowed, to some extent, a resumption of activity, or in any case an acceleration of this recovery for the companies which had been able to continue working during the last two months. This is the case, in particular, of the nearly 400,000 non-food businesses authorised to reopen throughout the country, as well as of the public works and motor industry sectors, which have been granted full authorisation to resume their activity. Our economy has been hard hit by the containment used to stem the covid -19 pandemic; As a result, the resumption of business is good news for everyone. Not all sectors of our economy, however, have this opportunity, as some of them are not affected by deconfinity. A week after May 11, these sectors are still at a standstill. I want to talk about tourism, hotel-restaurant and culture, which some of my colleagues will probably talk about in greater detail. Many economic actors have still not been able to benefit from the return of customers. Yet the urgency is there, after two months of zero turnover. We must pay special attention to them. One week after the beginning of the de-finition, as other businesses reopen, we see that sanitary measures could be put in place to allow them to gradually return to activity. Other countries, such as Germany and Italy, have already begun this reopening, with innovations that ensure social distancing. I will have to explain why the cinemas are closed, when Parliament is open.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u3	We're a little confined, though! And then, the National Assembly, it's not cinema!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u4	If we are able to sit in this Chamber, the French are just as capable of sitting in a cinema by occupying only one in two armchairs. Beyond economic activities, I would like to take advantage of this debate to draw your attention to a particular sector of the economy. I will talk not about businesses, industries, artisans or businesses, but about another sector that has been heavily affected: health. It should not be neglected because it is very important. The OECD – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development – estimated that at the beginning of 2017, our health spending was 11.3% of GDP. We had the highest share of GDP devoted to health in the European Union, with Germany – in any case, it was well above the EU average of 9.8%. Let me remind you that the share of our GDP devoted to tourism is around 8%. Despite the return to health care opportunities, many health care professionals make a bitter observation: the French have been more upset to make an appointment with the hairdresser than to consult a doctor, patients fearing being infected with the coronavirus by going to a medical office. One figure is quite revealing: a survey conducted on 14 May for the Fédération de l'hospitalisation privé reveals that 36% of French people fear to return to consultation for fear of catching the disease. Such fear could have disastrous consequences for offices and clinics that have been slowing down during the two months of confinement, or have had no activity at all. The Government could act, particularly for clinics, which had played a role in being the hospital health reserve. They may not have been mobilized. In my department, beds were created and they waited while suspending all their other activities; Yet they have not seen an influx of sick people. Now they have the rifle in hand and ask us to let them gradually resume their activities by focusing on their specialty fields. If the activity is not restored now, the aid will not be enough and we will be seeing professional bankruptcies, including in the health sector. However, medical professionals provide quality care and proximity in our territories, despite some holes in the snowshoe, which unfortunately constitute medical deserts. This resumption of activity should not be hindered by public authorities. As such, the implementation of the expanded white plan was a necessary precaution – it is not a question of lifting it where tensions on resuscitation bed capacity are still strong – but its maintenance throughout the national territory, in a uniform way, while we have statistics allowing us to distinguish the red departments from the green departments, has very real consequences on this private fabric, which has often been the poor parent of the health strategy. We have gone through hospitals a lot, and we have probably underestimated the usefulness of this health tool. One week after the beginning of the deconfinement, why not imagine a territorial declination of this plan, in the image of what is done for schools, by maintaining, of course, precautions and increased vigilance regarding a possible epidemic rebound? Moreover, a large number of health professionals authorized to resume their work cannot do so in good conditions due to the lack of health equipment. This is a situation that dentists, for example, are experiencing. The case of osteopaths, initially forgotten on the list of health professionals to be given a distribution of health equipment for deconfination, reveals in passing the lack of rigour with which they were treated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u5	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u6	These are the points I wanted to draw your attention to. Not to relax, but yes to a debunking, including, of course, for health professionals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u7	Mr. Minister, I apologize to Mr. Bruno Millienne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u8	[[Smile]] I wish I had a private answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u9	Because yesterday, we had no answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u10	[[Smile]] I tried... Mr. Millienne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u11	For weeks now, we have been experiencing a major and unprecedented health crisis, which will have highlighted the strengths and weaknesses of our society. While vigilance remains more rigorous than ever to avoid the second wave announced of a pandemic that has already taken with it far too many loved ones in French homes, we are here to discuss the theme: "The deconfinement, what implementation after a week? » Within the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, as certainly in many other groups on the benches of this House, we believe that the forces revealed are not in common with the weaknesses that have emerged. Without pretending that everything has been perfectly managed, we are convinced that the only chance for our nation to emerge from this crisis and learn from it is to continue to face it together. I know from the outset how great the temptation may be, for some, to exploit weaknesses, but we believe that it is a mistake to think that disunity could be useful in such circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u12	You must be united, but not blind!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u13	Little confidence in one's own strengths is needed to gain some rejoicing from others' weaknesses. I also know that the words I speak here will not only attract me from friends. Yet it is in a calm spirit and with humility that I present myself to this rostrum. Pastor Martin Luther King said so well: "To make enemies, not to declare war, you just have to say what you think. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u14	Yet you have no enemies, Mr. Millienne!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u15	So this is what we think, in the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. First of all, we regret that concord has not been the rule and that some politicians have not taken on their responsibilities – that of getting out of their corridor to agree on the essentials,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u16	Are you talking about La République en marche?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u17	... to stop the spin effects and realize that the French would not have trusted them to manage this crisis, that of reviving the confidence we need. This is how they should have acted, out of dignity and responsibility to our fellow citizens, especially to all those who have been at the forefront and have shown incredible creativity and solidarity. This is how I find it strange, in particular, to see the second character of the state, for whom I have the greatest respect, straying to old political quarrels,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u18	Oh, that's a challenge from the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u19	That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u20	... blaming the Government because of the continuation of the first round of municipal elections, to which he and his side have worked extensively, and today contesting the legitimacy of Parliament to debate the date of holding the second round of these same elections, in full transparency, so that nothing of this important decision for democracy is hidden from the French. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] It is also strange to see unsuspecting France wallow in sterile opposition, thus pursuing the only fight that has always been its own: to replay a series of already lost elections. The women and men who form this movement and those who adhere to it are better than that; They've had the opportunity to prove it in the past. The deconfination is in progress, and it is still time for all of us to rise to the challenge,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u21	I'm sure you're up to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u22	[[Exclaims]] ...to favour concord with discord. Where some predicted that the Government would not be up to the challenge,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u23	You're at the pick-up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u24	[[Exclaims on various benches]] ... evoked the war of masks, the shortage of tests or the chaotic resumption of public transport, we find that, finally and fortunately, the so terrible has not happened. Let us rejoice in this and continue to work to ensure that this deconfinity continues under the best conditions! Let us also welcome the unprecedented social and economic measures taken by the Government! Only one figure to spare oppositions the statement of all these measures: almost four in five French were accompanied by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Millienne speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u26	[[Persistent exclamations]] The central state, which we like to conspure, will have played its role as a social shock absorber like no other in Europe. You have to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u27	[[Laughs]] Let our colleague express himself in the spirit of concord which he calls for of his wishes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u28	I propose that we vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u29	Let us finally know that we will be able to live up to the social and societal challenge announced. However, is it enough to be satisfied with what has been done? I don't believe it. I know there's still a way to go,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u30	In reverse, it's complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u31	... but at the same time I want to greet our exemplary fellow citizens who stood out during this crisis with beautiful actions of solidarity – they alone are hope. Let us also welcome and support the Government's determination to do the best possible, unabated. Like many of my colleagues, I went to see the decoupling at work in our schools, in our small and large businesses, in railway stations and in our markets. It is a spirit of responsibility that inspires our fellow citizens: they know that they are part of the equation to succeed in this first stage. The next one, you set it for June 2nd.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u32	[[Smile]] I propose that we proceed to the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u33	A new map of France will be presented to our compatriots. We won't go from red to green everywhere. Our fellow citizens living in a red department will not have to live this as a punishment: the Government will have to explain the situation and accompany these departments so that France is not cut in half, with on one side territories heading towards recovery and on the other side territories stuck in paralysis. In this sense, could the Government take advantage of this debate to inform national representation on its intentions, depending on the different assumptions for the post-2 June period? The time will come to learn from this crisis and to make a critical assessment of it – an objective, not a burden, to really learn from revealed, past and present weaknesses. Let us hope that the work of the commissions of inquiry already promised goes in this direction...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u34	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u35	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I'm finishing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u36	Oh, no, you've exceeded your speaking time by twenty-three seconds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u37	The balance sheet time will come later. Patience: the definity will only be successful if we remain united!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u38	Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u39	After two months of confined, isolated life, the country has gradually resumed its pace since 11 May. The French and French were able to regain their freedom to come and go, and sometimes enjoy certain pleasures of life, under very special conditions. All this remains very fragile: the virus is still circulating and outbreaks are reappearing all over the country. We know the strategy of deconfining: to protect, to test, to isolate. To avoid the risk of a second wave, each outbreak detected must be controlled as soon as possible, and contact cases quickly isolated. To break the contamination chains, the issue of PCR tests – Polymerase Chain Reaction – is therefore paramount. The initial ambition was to carry out 700000 tests a week – this is also prominent in Jean Castex's report, the national coordinator for the deconfining strategy. However, the Government is now announcing approximately 50,000 tests per day, or about 350,000 tests per week, or less than half of the target initially set.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u40	And again, the good weeks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u41	Several professors and specialists stress this insufficiency and call for a rapid rise in power. This gap from simple to double, which could undermine one of the very pillars of deconfination, could undermine our ability to control the epidemic. There can be no hole in the racket: we must quickly tighten the meshes of the net. For memory, 40% of covid-19 patients are asymptomatic. We cannot afford to wait for a person to develop symptoms to test it. It is necessary to anticipate and target areas and populations at risk, either because the virus is actively circulating there or because certain working conditions present a greater risk of contamination and spread of the virus. The case of slaughterhouses is a perfect illustration of this: in several countries of the world, clusters are formed in this type of establishment. In France, more than 100 cases of covid-19 were detected in two slaughterhouses. Continuation of activities during confinement, difficulties in respecting barrier actions, narrowness of the premises: the reasons for this situation are multiple. Because they are in contact with the population, employees in other professions must also be given special attention. Cashiers and cashiers in supermarkets and agents in public transport or at the counter are in contact with customers and users, as well as workers in factories, health centres, schools, colleges and soon high schools. The very nature of this virus is to be both invisible and present throughout the territory. So to trap him, you have to hit him as much as you can before he does. It is necessary to test, test and test again to prevent the deconfination from turning into a reconfinition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u42	We've been saying it for two months!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u43	The measures implemented for deconfining must also be thought beyond our own borders. Europe cannot, whenever a serious crisis strikes it, liquefy itself and transform itself into a mosaic of nations. The beginning of the crisis, from the end of February, showed that when a country was hit, it was the whole continent that was waning. Several of our neighbours have taken decisions regarding the reopening of their borders in the coming weeks. After two months of total blockage, Germany eases the pressure by relaxing its transit conditions with Austria and Switzerland. The Italian Government will reopen the country's borders to European Union tourists in early June and cancel the mandatory quarantine for foreign visitors to the peninsula. Spain has chosen another route, that of the isolation for two weeks of any person entering its territory, including the French. In France, no quarantine will be imposed on persons from the European Union, the Schengen area or the United Kingdom, regardless of their nationality. Is this a final decision? Such a health issue requires at least harmonisation of the rules with the conditions for entry into the territories of our main neighbours. During his visit to Normandy last weekend, the Minister of the Interior felt that "it is essential that we can have coordinated decisions at European level". What has been proposed in practice to our European neighbours to coordinate the reopening of borders and to harmonise the conditions for the entry of foreign travellers on European soil? Why not imagine a coordination cell with our closest neighbours to prepare for a gradual reopening of our borders? A unified map would analyse the circulation of the virus at the regional level, in order to provide appropriate responses according to the level of alert detected. Cross-border solidarity could also emerge if a region encountered difficulties, such as a localized recovery of the epidemic. Defining must meet two essential requirements: first, it must be accompanied by a capacity to test massively targeted audiences in our territory, and then it must be considered with our European neighbours and partners. In order to bounce back and hold back, it will be necessary to ensure uniform health security throughout the European continent. Lessons need to be learned from the dispersal that began in scattered order, and the process must now be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u44	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u45	Yes, we had to get out of the way. The Government was right to do so. Those in this House who were still skeptical fifteen days ago see that today we have no other solution – not because the virus would have disappeared: it has not disappeared and probably will not do so soon. This is precisely why it was necessary, sooner or later, to reboot the economic machine and to re-weav the social link. We couldn't all stay in our houses and apartments for months, even years, until the virus really disappeared. Yes, you were right to untie. The success of deconfining today implies the fulfilment of four conditions, which we all know. The first is the wearing of the mask to protect others but also to protect oneself, if others also wear it. The second is hand washing, soap or hydro-alcoholic gel. The third is respect for barrier gestures, which avoids too close a relationship between each other. Finally, the fourth condition lies in the ability to perform regular and massive tests for any person with symptoms, as well as randomly. As we know and as has already been said, it is indeed likely that one in two people is asymptomatic. Two of these four conditions are the individual responsibility: barrier gestures and hand washing, which will have to get used to. Barrier gestures are probably not very pleasant; They are, however, necessary. As far as masks and tests are concerned, public authorities have a role to play, firstly because the French sectors can produce masks, but also because they can regulate prices. The ambition presented by the President of the Republic was originally to provide every Frenchman with a general public mask.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u46	We were far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u47	Today, however, we see that, because of the many constraints that can be described as bureaucratic – albeit indispensable from the point of view of certification, but greatly slowing down the production and marketing of masks – many of our fellow citizens have been forced to fall back on surgical masks. These have been available in large areas, tobacco offices and pharmacies for a few days. Nevertheless, these businesses often market masks at the ceiling price, 95 cents a unit, which is relatively high. On average, three masks are required per day and per person; for a three-person home, this represents a budget of about 180 euros per month, which is relatively important. With regard to testing, we also observe difficulties in the field. The Government has announced the need for massive testing of the population and 700000 tests per week, which is very good. However, we note that serological tests are still not validated by the CNR, the national reference centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u48	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u49	One wonders why, while some of them have successfully passed the internal testing stage. As for PCR tests, they are only available on prescription from a doctor, which slows the identification of carriers of the virus. I wished to draw the Government's attention to these two points, which I believe are important. It is said that it is necessary to test massively, but there is a difference between what is announced in the media and the reality of the field – sometimes because of instructions from RHAs, regional health agencies. I'd like to conclude by talking about clinics. As my colleague Julien Aubert said very well, we will have to deal with a second wave. These will not necessarily be cases of covid -19 but may be patients who are victims of a loss of luck, who should have been operated on and not. There is an urgent need to release the operating rooms and allow for surgical procedures. Finally, I would like to stress the need to compensate, through the payment of premiums, the caregivers of private clinics who have been on the front line. This is particularly the case in the Upper Rhine, which suffered for a long time from the epidemic of covid-19. The clinics were then in the front line, on the front; It is imperative that their caregivers are also thanked for their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u50	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u51	Where are the walkers, Madam President?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u52	They're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u53	I will not mention the health and safety aspects of the deconfinement, even if I am ready to sign with both hands the comments that Olivier Becht has just made, which reflect what I have observed on the ground. Last weekend, I had to explain again to the SRA that a direct diagnosis result could not be required in 24 hours if a prescription was required to have a test performed. If you wish, minister, I will be able to provide you with the elements of appreciation on this subject. I would like to draw your attention, in the economic field, to the expected wave of corporate failures. I am surprised that none of the ministers in charge of this matter is present on the bench – which does not detract from the qualities of those who are there. Everyone knows the health consequences of the virus, but its economic consequences will be severe. As part of the information mission on the covid-19, we took part earlier in a video conference with the social partners. In particular, we have mentioned the unprecedented increase in unemployment that is expected – after, it is true, a major decline – and the social tragedies that it will generate. Not all problems were solved; the voids have been filled thanks to the powerful device you have put in place – the most important in Europe. We know, however, that as of 1 June, the state will change the rules. I would like to know the state of your discussions with the social partners on this subject. Indeed, the cascade, or even the avalanche of degradations and incidents in companies, is ahead of us. At a time when the state's efforts in the area of partial unemployment, which made it possible to counter corporate bankruptcies, will be reduced, we will be faced with an explosion of difficulties. Everyone said it on these benches, and will repeat it tonight: we were very lucky to have men and women engaged in vital structural sectors, and having demonstrated total efficiency. However, I would like to make one point about the partial activity scheme: it would be desirable to assess the proven effects of windfalls. On this subject, we must have a heavy hand: if we have been generous – and we have had to – for the employees who had not asked for anything and who have seen their purchasing power diminish, the effects of a bounty must be heavily punished. Another important element is that yesterday we learned that a EUR 500 billion European recovery plan would be put in place. Will Europe pay, yes or no, part of the partial unemployment bill? With regard to the resumption of activity, Minister Julien Denormandie explained last night to me and my colleague Jeanine Dubie that the recovery rate was estimated at about 70% in the economic sectors we mentioned. What about the other economic sectors? The social partners told us earlier that the resumption of activity had been all the better if the social dialogue was good. How can this dialogue be encouraged in the future? It can be seen that the resumption of work took place all the more effectively as the actions were carried out as close as possible to the enterprises, through the branches, rather than remaining in the Parisian stratospheres. Those of us who have participated in the Joint Joint Committee on the extension of the state of health emergency know that there is a sword of Damocles: the problem of civil and criminal liability, whose case law will have to be stabilized. This is a brake; Many entrepreneurs are currently wondering about the extent of their responsibility and what might one day be blamed for. I now turn to the trade and craft sectors. It's only been eight days since the cracking started. Although this is a very short time frame, I am sure that the Government is aware of the first indicators of the reopening of shops. Finally, I would like to stress the hotel and restaurant sector. Unfortunately, massive destruction is to be expected in this sector. If we do not change the barrier gestures, if we keep the requirement of a surface of 4 square meters per customer,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u54	That's impossible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u55	... the capacity of restaurants will decrease by 60% and the economic balance of many of these establishments will be jeopardized. It is not a support or accompaniment plan that will be necessary, but a complete rescue plan that will have to be imagined, created, invented. Thousands of jobs are in danger of being destroyed in this sector. I will briefly mention the delays in payment, in particular by very small enterprises – TPEs – and SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises. We must remain particularly vigilant about this because these late payments can result from a fall in activity and unfortunately lead to the disappearance of these companies. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Everyone will have understood, listening to my comments, that the economic angle is very important for the Libertés et territoires group. The health aspect of the crisis is also so, but we have already had the opportunity to express our views on this subject on a number of occasions. The economic angle must be subject to re-visiting clauses and permanent adaptations. Indeed, the realities on the ground catch up with us and, in the face of them, reactivity is required.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u56	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u57	Thus, after preventive measures taken with delay, which the former Minister of Health himself has itself acknowledged, after hasty confinement and a dangerously organized definity, we are therefore in the following moment, that of the implementation by the Government of a strategy of return to normality, which is nevertheless at the origin of a large part of the problems that we have been confronted with. Containment was only an emergency measure to deal with the health crisis caused by the covid-19; It was intended to control the spread of contamination and to stop the disaster by limiting the number of people receiving resuscitation. Poorly organized, this phase has regularly given rise to contradictory and inconsistent guidelines. By refusing to plan health mobilization, to requisition all the means to produce the instruments of struggle, such as masks, tests, breathers, by disdaining the proposals of nationalization of a number of failing companies which had the potential to make the necessary effort, the President, his government and his majority have wasted precious time in the country. While the material conditions were not in place to guarantee the maximum protection of the entire population, Emmanuel Macron decided that the deconfination would take place on 11 May. A week later, it is still too early to assess the health effects of this hazardous deconfinity. However, we would like to return to a number of points which show how far this has been done against common sense and in disregard of the objective that I think is widely shared to ensure the protection of all. Without health security for all, deconfining risks promoting the return of a strong circulation of the virus and the rebound that we all fear. From this point of view, the Government's management of the mask shortage and its refusal to provide itself with the means to respond to it is emblematic. Masks are one of the most important tools for each person to protect himself or herself and others. By refusing to use all the production apparatus that would have increased our capacities, we have placed ourselves in a situation of shortage where we are still in spite of the denials of the President of the Republic, a new manifestation of his abyssal contempt for collective intelligence. Today these masks are lacking to the citizens, the employees and the refusal to make free and massive distributions of masks further complicates the situation. From the health point of view, as has been said, the question of testing is also emblematic. From a social point of view, it is noted that, while it took this crisis to measure the essential role of a number of professions and the public health sector, the refusal to challenge the economic development and austerity strategies that have prevailed so far persists. For example, the health sector's demand for revalorisation for years has now been given lip service and accompanied by a 35-hour challenge. Caregivers are told that after having given everything to deal with the health crisis, they and they will have to continue to run out, when they have not died at work. Finally, from an economic point of view, the refusal to give itself the financial means, in particular, of an ambitious recovery, through debt or by taxing high incomes shows once again that the frameworks of economic thought remain those of the world before. The necessary bifurcation is not on the appointment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u58	We've got to close, MP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u59	Our mobilization has always sought to guarantee the protection of all and it is even more necessary...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u60	Thank you. Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u61	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] My friend Pierre Dharréville, to whom I asked where the Walkers had gone, told me at the moment that they had gone to stretch their legs: I hope they will quickly return to the path of the Chamber because I find that this absence of the members of the majority betrays a lack of respect for our control mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u62	We're waiting for them on a firm foot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u63	They're not interested in deconfinity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u64	A few days after the beginning of the debunking, the caregivers of the Robert Debré hospital went down the street to shout their anger. In recent days, caretakers from Saint-Étienne and all the institutions taken in the vice of plans to return to balance have followed suit to shout at the fire. Although we are going through the worst health crisis our country has experienced since the Spanish flu, these economic plans, which result in bed closures and austerity on all floors, continue to hit the daily lives of our hospitals. Pressure's everywhere. In my region, the hospitals in Flers, Cherbourg – the list is long – are not spared by the financial crisis. If it is a simple thing the minister can do, and without delay, it is to notify all SRAs of the abandonment of these return-to-balance plans. The Government must emerge from an ambiguity that staff interpret as a stab wound in the back, while the hospital is on the front line in the fight against coronavirus. Maintaining hypocrisy undermines trust. The President of the Republic must have felt this bad wind: on the day when Robert-Debré's hospitals were demonstrating, he organized the hearing of a few caregivers and the public visit of a hospital – during which he sent around with the contempt that was known to him the nurses who were calling him, refusing medals – before revealing a new plan. Emmanuel Macron wanted to ride the tiger of culture: here he is caught by the wounded beast of the hospital. You've been caught up in this great heroic but sick body that, for three years, you've preferred to hide under a sheet rather than cure it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u65	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u66	While, in order to save the hospital, we are promised a "Health Safety" – another artifice of communication – the Government specifies the scandalous conditions for the award of the care premium. Dieppois caregivers do not understand why, while they have been on the front line to welcome patients from Hauts-de-France and elsewhere, they will not benefit from the 1500 euros promised. You've decided to divide the hospital community when it needs to be brought together. It is unacceptable not to treat caregivers equally whose purchasing power needs to be improved. In the same way, soon after the presidential promise, Olivier Véran tells us that the relaxation of 35 hours in the hospital will be one of the answers, when we should consider a real upgrading of jobs and massive hirings. If your Ségur is to replace the 800 posts that are missing at the hospitals in Paris by relaxing the 35 hours, the revalorisations granted under the pressure being insufficient to ensure the attractiveness of these jobs, it is that you refuse to really treat the heroic sick. While you promise a Segur from the hospital, psychiatry remains the other great forgotten of the Coronavirus attack. It had been announced that this sector would benefit from progressive catch-up until 2021, but now there is no sound, no more image while the needs are loud. If your Segur only leads to words, you will crash and plant the public service of the hospital with you! You will deceive these agents and with them the French who applauded every night those who were at their bedside. Your segur must allow you to see this great heroic and sick body as it is and to establish the diagnosis that will truly cure it. The clinical picture shows a PLFSS – a bill to finance social security – providing for a 4 billion screw clamp. In other words, the logic of needs has not taken precedence over that of the calculation rule. The table shows that our hospitals' indebtedness increased from 32% in 2002 to 52% in 2016. In the light of the lessons of this exceptional period, it is up to you to provide for the means of repairing the public hospital as part of a multi-year programme. The tour de France des hôpitaux carried out by the Communist parliamentarians allows you to have a diagnosis shared with the health care providers...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u68	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] ...which requires us to respond immediately to the financial and human needs of the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u69	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u70	In the name of what current of the Marchers? This group is getting smaller and smaller!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u71	After two months of necessary and effective containment, the deconfining plan presented by the Prime Minister came into effect on 11 May. For the past ten days, it has been the happiness of the freedoms found, even if they remain partial and even if we have to respect the rules. According to a poll published this morning by Les Échos, more than seven out of ten people believe that deconfinement is going well and that France is gradually getting back on track.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u72	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u73	At the heart of our towns and villages reigned a strange feeling of apprehension mixed with impatience...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u74	Colleagues, please...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u75	...when the iron curtains rose on Monday, May 11. Yet in shops, bookstores, flower shops, hair salons, customers were at the rendezvous, happy to find the smile of their shopkeepers, even masked and protected by plexiglas, and it is worth e-commerce!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u76	We already had the e-MPs!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u77	In France, 400,000 businesses representing more than 875,000 jobs were restarted on 11 May. Our fellow citizens have adopted the mask. Ten days later, few people were able to obtain them, thanks to the distributions in the town halls, because of their 50 % ownership by the State,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u78	That remains to be checked!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u79	... the mobilization of local businesses and the involvement of seamstresses, volunteers, in a tremendous momentum of creativity and generosity that continues today and which the Government has been able to encourage. Indeed, as we know, the danger is still there; the virus has not stopped circulating. But for the time being, it is clear that its effective reproductive rate is well controlled in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u80	It's not scientifically proven!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u81	It's negative to the Republic on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u82	For the last ten days, the drop has been confirmed. It is therefore time for the gradual resumption of activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u83	Come on, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u84	Business leaders tell us that they are satisfied with the national deconfinination protocol and, above all, with the business records. In schools the custom school year went well. I have seen school children in my constituency delighted to find their teachers and friends, parents reassured by the strict implementation of health protocols. The pediatricians themselves are calling today to move forward on 25 May, in the interests of the children. What seemed to be much insurmountable was made possible by the unwavering mobilization of national education, teachers, mayors and local government officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u85	It's the Republic in masks! It's better to hear that than to be deaf!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u86	In order to achieve this, the Government has relied on a classification of the regions in green and red. Uniform rules for the whole country have made it possible for containment to succeed, but isn't it time to introduce differentiation and flexibility into this bicolored map of France? Can we impose the same behaviour on the inhabitants of Jura and those of Paris? What we need...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u87	It's a new majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u88	...it is a departmental map, a territorial decline for departments that have been spared or poorly affected or have found an epidemiological situation in the past 15 years that satisfies the three criteria. These departments are penalized by the regional criterion of resuscitation bed capacity. It is this one that has earned my department to be classified as a red zone, whereas, since the beginning of the epidemic, it was considered green according to local criteria, with the virus circulating very little.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u89	They've even raised 200 dead since yesterday!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u90	The announcement by the Prime Minister of a reopening of cafes and restaurants in June in the green departments alone is a cause for serious concern in the red departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u91	The Communists won seats!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u92	Thus the Jura, where tourism is an essential pillar of the economy, undergoes cascading booking cancellations due to its red colour...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u93	What a beautiful color!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u94	...and a discouraging feeling of injustice develops there. The map, previously amended daily, should also be regularly updated, with the epidemiological situation changing every day. Burgundy-Franche-Comté, for example, is still in red, while its situation has improved considerably since the occupancy rate of the resuscitation beds has stabilized for fifteen days at a much lower level than the 60% condition of the transition to green. Our fellow citizens have the right to transparency on the actual and up-to-date health situation of their department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u95	At home, it's green, but we don't understand why!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the need to decentralize this map and update it. It would be a shame if activity continued to be very slowed down in departments with a healthy epidemiological situation. The massive measures implemented by the Government have helped to preserve jobs and the productive tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u97	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u98	[[Approval on the benches of the LaREM Group]] I was interrupted, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u99	Go to her request, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u100	I wish you hadn't interrupted me, it would have been more courteous! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the MODEM group]] Let us not lose the benefits of this support plan, the most generous in Europe. The economy must go back wherever possible. The world...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u101	Thank you, Congresswoman. You bravely resisted! Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u102	At the time of the announcement of the break-up by Monday, 11 May, there were many outstanding issues. A week after the breakdown, it must be noted that the questions are unfortunately even more numerous, both the approximations, the near and the blind corners are the rule of government conduct.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u104	There are good examples of this when it comes to the reopening of schools. The return of the students to the priority education area was rightly a key argument of the Minister of National Education, who declared Urbi and Orbi that by this means they would return to the school those who had furthest from it during the confinement. Today, however, only a tiny minority of these students have returned to school, contrary to what Mr. Blanquer had announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u105	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u106	The observation is simple: you have clearly failed on this point. Hence my first question: what do you intend to do about it? We are also surprised that there is no specific support for pupils in difficulty, as the Republicans had planned. If the return of students to school is gradual, the Government has added an additional difficulty by making it optional. The result is a situation in which teachers must at the same time manage a class with presential students and others who remain at home. It is an organizational puzzle for teachers, who encounter difficulties in doing both at the same time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u107	Not easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u108	Among the fifty proposals put forward by the Republicans Group for a successful de-consolidation was the systematic and weekly testing of school staff, including teachers, AVS, school life assistants and AESH, accompanying students with disabilities; This is what the Germans do. The Minister of National Education had responded here on 6 May, showing deep contempt for teachers, that tests should not be wasted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u109	He'd rather ruin the teachers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u110	Beautiful vision of the institution and teachers of our country! They would deserve a little more consideration from their minister. That being said, given that the Minister of Solidarity and Health is announcing that screening capabilities are constantly increasing in our country, when are you going to systematically test teachers? One week after the reopening of the schools, you have already closed seventy because of proven cases of covid -19! It goes without saying that this could have been avoided by systematic tests. Clearly, contrary to another rather singular statement by Mr. Blanquer, children are more at risk by sending them to school than by keeping them at home. While the colleges have reopened for the sixth and fifth grades, it is regrettable that there is so little visibility on the recovery of the fourth and third grades. More specific information should be provided to the parents and children concerned. Once again, we're in a mess.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u111	And when it's blurred...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u112	As for high school students, six weeks before the deadline, hundreds of thousands of first-class students still do not know whether or not the French oral will be maintained. The wait is becoming more and more difficult for those concerned and the families whose testimony I have received do not really taste what the minister said in the Sunday Journal. He says, with brilliance no doubt, but still with a hint of contempt: "The students will thank me in ten years' time, remembering their reading of Phedre during confinement."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u113	How modest!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u114	For the time being, students remember one thing: that the minister is unable to answer their legitimate questions about the baccalaureate of French. Will we have a firm and definitive answer tonight? Once again, the families of France are waiting for an answer: it becomes unbearable! Our group's proposals also included the creation of a teaching reserve, based on the model of the health reserve – a proposal that is very dear to our president. Why has the Government not done anything in this regard? This was perfectly achievable: many young pensioners from national education would be willing to serve, especially in times of crisis. [["Excellent! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] You will have understood this: more than ever, we, like all of our fellow citizens, are waiting for real responses from the Government. For the moment, we don't have them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u115	See you in ten years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u116	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u117	It is my honour to begin this intervention on behalf of the Government; My colleague Adrien Taquet will take over. As you pointed out, the deconfinity was expected by many Frenchmen. He asked for a lot of preparation and he still needs a lot of work – but we stick to it. With regard to the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior, which are also interdepartmental missions, the prefects are manoeuvring to break the chains of contamination: they are the conductors in the field. This is an important work that they are doing alongside the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, including the Directors General of the RHAs. This mission is obviously crucial to the success of our strategy to preserve the health of the French. The dialogue between the prefects and the mayors remains, as we had hoped, at the centre of the deconfination strategy – as it was at the centre of the containment strategy. Discussions are going well and things are moving forward, especially with regard to beaches, where there is a need to ensure proper compliance with health rules, markets or, in green areas, parks and gardens. The close collaboration between the prefects and local elected representatives will of course continue, and discussions are already taking place to prepare for the next stage, which will begin on 2 June. Controls continue on compliance with the rules we have set. It is my duty, as Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, to commend the work carried out by the internal security forces to enforce a number of particularly important rules in the context of this definity – I am thinking in particular of the restriction of movement more than 100 kilometres from home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u118	Why 100 kilometers? That's a question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u119	The Ministry of the Interior takes its full place in the interministerial animation of the crisis through the interministerial crisis centre of Beauvau, under the authority of the Prime Minister. After only a week of debunking, the results of our actions are rather positive. I believe that, as the President of the Republic has said, we are on the right track. First of all, the rules that have been enacted are generally respected – for example, with regard to the restriction of travel to 100 kilometres from home, our fellow citizens show a lot of civicism, as well as the prohibition of rallies of more than ten people, which are extremely important for the health protection of our fellow citizens. When this is not the case, the internal security forces intervene. Everywhere in France, whenever possible and there was no health risk, life was able to resume its course, in accordance with the high demand expressed on your benches, as well as by many mayors. This was particularly the case for markets, so important for our cities and villages; We have also managed to open nearly 450 beaches this weekend thanks to the concerted action of the prefects and mayors. In transport, the de-confinination is proceeding in a very appropriate manner thanks to the commitment of the organizing authorities and local elected representatives. I have a special thought for the Île-de-France region, where local and national authorities have worked together, under the leadership of the President of the Regional Council and the Regional Prefect, to design a functional mechanism. This allowed those who were not on telework to visit their workplace. A word about the screening, tracing and isolation or quarantine device – which few of you have mentioned. It works, it is implemented in all departments, thanks to the very strong involvement of the Directors General of the ARS and the Prefects. Isolation or quarantine procedures are implemented and supported by departmental cells known as isolation support cells.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u120	Do you have any numbers? How many people are in isolation? The hotels are empty!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u121	Of course, we will remain vigilant. We are working on the next step, which will begin on June 2, and it is certain, Mrs. Brulebois, that mapping will have a role to play. Together with the Government as a whole, we have already begun to reflect, as the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have committed us to do. I would like to reply to Mr Bouillon on the question, which is addressed more specifically to the Ministry of the Interior and Border Control. As you know, honourable Member, borders are closed outside the European Union, in full coordination between the states. With regard to the internal borders of the European Union, France closed its borders until October; until 15 June, we will apply procedures for refusing entry into the national territory – there are a number of exceptions, notably for cross-borders and residents. Be assured that European coordination exists; It applies within the framework of the Council of Ministers of the Interior of the European Union, and also in a bilateral framework, since every day, Christophe Castaner or I discuss with our counterparts to design improvements and facilitate the lives of people living on both sides of a border, whether with Germany, Belgium or Switzerland. You also raised the issue of quarantine. As you know, the law gives the possibility to introduce it. The decrees are being prepared and will be published very soon. The Prime Minister has already said that for people from the European Union, quarantine should not be applied, since there is coordination in the implementation of health measures and follow-up is being carried out, knowing that they are roughly equivalent in all countries. That is why the Prime Minister has been able to say that quarantine will probably not be applied, provided that the measure is reciprocal – this issue is currently under consideration with Spain. That is what I could tell you, ladies and gentlemen; I am at your disposal to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u122	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u123	If you allow me to do so, Madam President, I will take a little time to respond as precisely and personally as possible to the various speakers – this is the wish expressed by Mr Julien Aubert and I would be angry if I would not respond favourably. You have, Mr. Aubert, addressed several points. I'll start with renunciation of care. I thank you for raising this issue, because Minister Olivier Véran, along with you, has repeatedly expressed his concern about the risk of abandonment of care and decompensation for certain chronic diseases that are insufficiently treated. There is no question that we have to face a second wave linked not to the covid -19, but to all the pathologies that would not have been treated during the crisis. You are right, however, that the number of consultations has decreased by 40% in general medicine and by 60% in specialized medicine. Another example you probably know, during the first nineteen days of confinement, the Paris Public Hospital Assistance, AP-HP, observed a 74% drop in appendectomys compared to the same period last year. The situation is therefore serious; It is a matter of concern. I join you in conveying this message to the French: if they are sick, they must consult, at their doctor's or by telemedicine, whose supervision we have relaxed. In 2019, there were 20,000 teleconsultations in our country; In the last week alone, 1 million! Thanks to the white plan, we were able to cope with an exceptional health situation. It was triggered before the start of the wave and enabled health facilities to prepare to accommodate patients with covid-19; It was then maintained throughout the period of high health tension. You referred to a uniform decision: on the contrary, we leave to the SRA the initiative of its deactivation, which will therefore take place according to the regional situation. Care must be taken, because once again it is essential that patients who have not been able to be cared for, who have not been able to be followed for chronic diseases, return to the health system. Some medicines are still under stress, especially in the area of resuscitation. Finally, we cannot rule out the possibility of a resumption of the epidemic: our health care system must be ready. Precisely, Mr. Becht spoke of four levers to put an end to this epidemic. Two relate to individual behaviours: they are not so unpleasant as this and will serve to avoid further epidemics in the future. The Government's objective has been from the beginning and remains that every Frenchman can have a mask, which, as you said, I believe, does not exempt from respecting the barrier gestures, but complements them. I would like to reiterate to the French the importance of these gestures: to stay away from others, to wash your hands regularly, to sneeze in your elbow. There are three types of masks, of which we are all beginning to be specialists. Health masks are surgical masks and FFP2. The general public masks, made of textile materials, washable and therefore reusable, meet a specific specification; tested by the DGA, the Directorate General of Armaments, they bear the logo "guaranteed filtration". The third category is that of artisanal masks corresponding to the specifications of AFNOR, the Association française de normalisation. You are concerned about access to these masks: in order to be as broad as possible, we have reduced VAT to 5.5% for all three categories, which is the lowest rate in European legislation. The price of surgical masks is capped at 95 cents of euro. It must be appreciated in use; you advanced for a family a fairly high figure, but it amounts to 20 or 30 cents per use, which, with two children and two parents, leads to about 15 euros per month. In addition, the Government has assigned a number of masks to priority audiences Each week, 100 million health masks from State stocks are distributed to health professionals, covid-affected patients and people at high medical risk. Through the prefectures and, unless I am mistaken, under the supervision of the Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, general public masks are given to pupils and persons in precarious situations. It's all free. About the tests, you'll allow me to answer later. Mr Bouillon also spoke to him; I have no doubt that other questions will follow. The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has already provided some elements. I talked about the PCR tests; With regard to serological tests, yesterday Minister Olivier Véran received recommendations from the High Health Authority, allowing him to consider proposing a diagnosis, on prescription, to all health care providers in the country, whether they are in hospital, in EHPAD, in medical-social structures or in the city.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u124	Will it be fully reimbursed?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u125	The scheme will probably be in effect as of the beginning of next week. Our aim is to extend this possibility to all those working on the one hand in the field of emergency accommodation and on the other hand in collective structures. That's good news; This will provide us with an additional weapon against the epidemic. Finally, Mr Becht, we have decided to pay a premium to hospital staff in the hospital service. I'm not going back to our commitment...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u126	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u127	We need to see your copy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u128	They want an equal bonus for all and for all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u129	...or on the amounts involved. With regard to applications for a premium for private-sector, lucrative and non-profit personnel, exchanges have taken place for several weeks, and recently again, with representative organisations: FEHAP – Federation of Hospitals and Non-profit Private Persons –, FHP – Federation of Private Hospitals and Clinics of France – or Unicancer. We are confident that this work, these discussions, will make it possible to recognize the strong mobilization of private institutions, particularly in the Great East and in Île-de-France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u130	It shouldn't be in two months!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u131	Mr Vigier, you have referred to the economic aspects of the decoupling. I would like to remind the national representative that the partial activity concerned on 17 May 12.6 million employees belonging to more than 1 million enterprises, to which the State fully reimburses, less than four and a half times the SMIC, the compensation paid to these employees. Containment was therefore a very protective phase. Defining is a new phase; certain economic sectors are starting to restart; We are going to have to accompany companies in a different way, perhaps addressing in particular the issue of traders and self-employed people, for whom the consequences of confinement are well understood. Arrangements have been made for them: EUR 20 billion to finance partial unemployment in these two sectors; carry forward without penalty the payment of tax and social charges, which amounts to 35 billion; Strengthening of the solidarity fund and easing the conditions for access to this fund, allowing for aid of EUR 1500 and up to EUR 5000; carry forward payment of rents, water, gas, electricity bills; or 300 billion euros of state-guaranteed bank loans, so that these traders and artisans can maintain a cash shortage that would quickly put them in jeopardy. Mr. Jumel, I assure you that Health Safety is much more than a form of communication or marketing. Since 2017, contrary to what you said, we – the government, the majority – have reversed the trend in recent years, whether in terms of health spending or investments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u132	All right? First news! Even President Macron doesn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u133	The whole point of the President of the Republic is to say that the crisis does not call into question our policies, but obliges us to accelerate the pace of reforms...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u134	Oh, no! Please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u135	...and to increase the means necessary for the transformation of our care system. The social partners, the hospital collectives will be involved in this reflection: this is the subject of the Ségur de la santé announced by Minister Olivier Véran. Many bilateral meetings have already taken place; the first multilateral meeting will be held next Monday. By the end of May, let us say tomorrow, we will be organising a feedback from the territories to find out what worked, because this crisis served as a revealing factor; It has sometimes confirmed what we know, sometimes also overturned our certainties, regardless of the sector. On the subject of remuneration, the road will be long, but the President has made it clear: we are going to increase them. We're going to work on an ambitious investment plan and start a profound transformation of everything that doesn't pull the hospital up.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u136	After pulling him down!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u137	The hospital showed during the crisis that when you let him do, he knew how to do miracles. It is in this sense that we must go. There have already been bonuses: we must now work on wage increases. We want to go fast; Our goal is for this plan to be presented this summer, so that a number of measures and decisions will be included in the next Social Security Financing Bill. There will be no taboo: we will address in particular the question of the articulation between public and private. What is certain, what I believe we all agree in this House, is that we owe a great deal to the hospital and that we must therefore collectively live up to expectations. Mrs Brulebois, the Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has come back to the subject of maps. You know the scientific criteria on which they are based, in the most objective way possible, in full transparency for our citizens. We are well aware of the consequences for the French living in the red zone. In recent times, the trajectory indicated by the figures may give us hope, with all the caution required, for a favourable development: even if the news is not confirmed, we can rejoice a priori. Until 2 June, the change in the short- and medium-term status of the departments will have to be endorsed by the National Defence and Security Council, chaired by the President of the Republic. Again, we measure the impact of this ranking on tourism vitality and simply on daily life in less favoured territories; But public health remains a priority. Before June 2, things will have changed, I hope, for Jura as for a number of other departments. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, Mr Hetzel, it is not the Minister of National Education who says that it can be more dangerous for a child to stay at home than to go to school in the current context. It is the French Paediatric Society; It's Robert Cohen, a pediatrician and infectious scientist; It is Martine Balençon or Nathalie Vabres, pediatricians working on the issue of violence against children. Yes, it can be dangerous for children to stay at home!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u138	That wasn't the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u139	There is a pedagogical risk, a risk of dropping out, mentioned by the Minister of National Education; but there is also a social risk and a psychological risk. A social risk, because for three months, children have been victims of abuse; It's important to open the doors, the windows, and let these kids go back to school!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u140	They're not going back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u141	A psychological risk, because some children need a sociability...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u142	Until then, we agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u143	...which goes beyond the restricted family circle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u144	That's why we had to secure the arrival at school!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u145	I don't know if you're a family man, Mr. Hetzel. I have young children; I can see that today, they need to find their comrades. On the other hand, scientific studies tend to prove – again, pending confirmation, I express myself with great caution – that children are less affected by covid and transmit it less often than we first assumed. It is therefore much less risky for a child to go to school than to stay at home.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u146	The problem is that the dropouts don't come back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It's a reality; It's the pediatricians who tell us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u148	We come to the questions. I would remind you that their duration, like that of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u149	My question relates to the cultural breakdown of our country and our fellow citizens. The resumption of cultural activities remains in a blur that is not artistic. This recapture, of course, does not concern the activities that everyone could engage in at home, alone, with their families, with their relatives, in front of a computer screen, throughout the confinement. The health crisis has clearly shown that culture is a refuge, happiness, a bond and, in the eyes of many of our fellow citizens, a basic good. But the blurry surrounding the conditions of recovery increases the anxiety, anxiety, doubts and even despair of many cultural actors. The fate of museums and monuments is one example of the blurry of your statements, when they are not contradictory. We understand that they have been closed since mid-March, but we learned at the end of April that small museums could reopen from May 11. What is a small museum? We get lost in conjecture, but it must be noted that of the 1214 museums in our country, only about thirty have obtained prefectural permission to reopen. Another example is the case of festivals. We understood that the big festivals could not be held, which gave rise to a cascade of cancellations – Avignon, Aix, Orange, Les Francofolies etc. The list is long and painful. On the other hand, the Minister of Culture said small festivals could take place. But what is a small festival?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u150	The Neuilly festival?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u151	Again, the announcements are imprecise and no concrete decisions are taken. The same uncertainty applies to monuments, both national and public as well as private. The National Monuments Centre is preparing for the possible reopening of some 15 sites by mid-June, but private owners remain in the most complete blur. They do not know when they will be able to reopen their homes, parks or gardens. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The actors of the cultural world, whether public or private, whether they work in the field of heritage or in the field of living entertainment, need clarity in order to be able to anticipate. There is an urgent need for the Government to meet their expectations. When will he do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u152	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u153	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u154	Indeed, Madam Member, the cultural sector is one of the most affected by the health crisis we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u155	Ah! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u156	It exposes the vulnerability of thousands of professionals and countless institutions, which it increases. You mentioned a number of them. The situation of culture is urgent. The Government shares your point and is working to remedy it. From the very beginning of the confinement, we have ensured access to all emergency measures taken by the Government by cultural actors. I recalled a few of them when I answered Mr. Vigier. As regards the opening of cultural places, it has been possible since 11 May, within a very strict framework and provided that the health requirements are met, as is the case for the reopening of any establishment from that date. Time passes and I will focus my answer on a few specific elements. Small museums, as you call them, are museums or so-called nearby monuments, whose attendance is essentially local. They may reopen since 11 May following a prefectural order issued after the mayor has given his opinion. The Ministry of Culture accompanies these reopenings with the distribution of guides to assist in the resumption of activity, which were submitted to the Ministry of Solidarity and Health for the health component. They are transmitted to local institutions and elected representatives through associations. Without normative scope, they are intended to help professionals reopen safely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u157	There are very few!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u158	As for the festivals, they were cancelled. The Prime Minister announced as soon as his speech of April 28, 2020 the cancellation of all rallies of more than 5000 people, which concerns the festivals of this summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u159	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u160	My question concerns the catering, hospitality and tourism sector, which has been heavily affected after two months of complete cessation of its activity. In this sector, which accounts for nearly one million jobs in our country, 90% of establishments are very small enterprises with fewer than five employees. The majority of employers no longer have cash and if they have been able to pay their employees, it is thanks to the partial unemployment scheme, of course, but above all because they have agreed to sacrifice their own remuneration. The exorbitant price of rents in large cities makes the problem worse every day. We are aware of the measures the Government is planning to take to support the tourism sector, but all these beautiful announcements will be in vain if these establishments are not rapidly allowed to reopen. Every day that passes is a lost day for thousands of professionals; Every day that passes sees hundreds of companies reaching the point of no return. I'll ask you two questions. The Government announced that it would announce its decision on the reopening of bars and restaurants on 25 May, with an opening no earlier than 2 June, after the weekend of Pentecost. If the sanitary conditions are met, would you be prepared to study the possibility of opening before the Pentecost weekend? If you make your decision on May 25, why wait until June 2nd to apply it and thus prevent professionals from enjoying this extended weekend? To see the world flocking to the quays of Paris last weekend, we thought that it would be better if the coffee terraces were open to the countryside! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] My second question concerns the participation of insurance companies in compensating for the loss of turnover in this sector. It is morally shocking to see large insurance groups playing on words and seeking to save time by multiplying litigation to not cover operating losses. Thus, if a contract plans to cover the risk of an epidemic, the insurance company will claim that it is a pandemic. I welcome the actions taken by some major mutualist groups, but there are still many recalcitrants. Is the Government prepared to take legislative measures to force recalcitrant insurers to play their role and assume their responsibilities?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u161	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u162	Thank you, honourable Member, for recognizing that the Government has embarked on a massive support plan. On 11 May, some shops reopened, excluding bars and restaurants, for a simple reason: we want to avoid, at least until 2 June, a brewing of population that could be facilitated by the use of bars and restaurants. Our objective is to organize the deconfination in a gradual manner. It should be noted, however, that during confinement these establishments were allowed to continue certain activities, in particular the take-out sale, which allowed them to resist the closure measures a little better. I am aware that my answer does not fully satisfy you. Re-opening will be the next step. It should take place on 2 June if, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, the health situation in our country permits. It is assessed, day after day, on the basis of three criteria which the Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health recalled: the attendance of emergency services by patients of the covid-19 or persons likely to be so, the occupation of the resuscitation beds, the ability to test. We thus have a mapping that allows us to monitor the evolution of the virus and to ensure that at no time will we saturate the capabilities of our hospital system, especially the resuscitation services. It is in the light of these criteria alone that we will decide whether or not to reopen the bars and restaurants on 2 June. We can reasonably be optimistic, but I understand that you are asking us to speak out more clearly to allow professionals to anticipate. Unfortunately, this is not possible, but we are working with the profession to allow the reopening. Guides are being prepared to determine the sanitary conditions under which these establishments may reopen, in particular the conditions of distancing. We are aiming for the 2 June target, which we all want to be able to meet, if the health situation permits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u163	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u164	Defining and containment have not been experienced in the same way across the country. In some territories, the health crisis has come in addition to an already well-established social crisis. This was particularly the case in the so-called "political neighbourhoods of the city", where promiscuity, inadequate housing, the difficulty of ensuring educational continuity, the difficulty of feeding properly put the risk of an increase in inequalities and a deterioration in the social climate. The clashes between young people and law enforcement officials that followed the deconfinement in Nanterre, in my constituency, testify to this. Some parts of the city have been burning for several days now, marking the return of a certain mistrust that must not persist. It is now absolutely necessary to restore calm by allowing law enforcement forces to resume a peaceful dialogue with the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods. The many associations work tirelessly there; We must accompany them to help them continue their action on the ground. Only this double articulation seems to me to avoid an increased weakening of the working-class neighbourhoods. What are the intentions of the Government? Is a plan dedicated to the so-called "city politics" neighbourhoods planned to accompany the revival in these territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u165	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u166	You raise the issue of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's politics, which allows me to break down some of the ideas received, conveyed by certain political groups, according to which the confinement or the ban on meeting with more than ten people on public roads would have been less respected in some territories. In the political districts of the city, the rules have been respected by our fellow citizens as in the rest of the national territory. Moreover, the phenomena of urban violence are very limited and contained. They concern only a minority of people, who are treated with firmness and discernment by the internal security forces. It is absolutely wrong to pretend that the neighborhoods are burning up. The scenes of urban violence that we were able to witness during confinement were very rare. The Government is not abandoning these neighbourhoods. For example, €50 million has been granted to support food aid associations. Food emergency cheques were also distributed to enable the purchase of basic necessities. On 15 May, 4.1 million households received exceptional assistance. In addition, EUR 15 million has been allocated for the distribution of computer equipment and connections to enable school support for children in these neighbourhoods and to ensure the educational continuity mentioned by the Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health a moment ago. As far as the future is concerned, I recognize that we are concerned about summer holidays in these neighbourhoods, since we do not know whether changes in the health situation will allow everyone to go on vacation, especially abroad. This is a matter of great concern to us. The Prime Minister has brought together the ministers concerned to take measures to accompany education under the policy of support to associations and the city's policy conducted in these territories. I can assure you that in the coming weeks we will pursue the Republican reconquest policy that we have been pursuing relentlessly since 2017. We remain extremely attentive to the situation in those territories and the Government devotes all its energy to developing public actions there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u167	Let me remind you, Secretary of State, that the time allocated to you is the same as the time allocated to Members. Mr Christophe Bouillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u168	I ask the question which my colleague David Habib, Member of Parliament for the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, who has been detained in his region since March for lack of aircraft or trains to go to Paris, addresses to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. He wished to draw the Government's attention to the practical application of the test policy through three questions. First of all, Jean Castex, the national coordinator of the deconfinement strategy, advises against systematically detecting patients admitted to hospital in his report released on 6 May – I refer you to page 21 of the report. However, studies on the spread of infections in hospitals rightly draw the attention of members of the Socialist and related group to the real risk of contracting covid -19 during hospitalization. This risk is all the more important since it is people at risk who have to go to the hospital frequently to follow up on their pathology. We would therefore like to know, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, what has led to such a doctrine and how it is applied. The second question concerns the screening protocol. The field returns indicate that the waiting time for the results is 48 hours instead of the 12 hours announced. Can you take a look at this? Are all 28 PCR platforms announced operational? Finally, Mr. Secretary of State, we received testimony from home helpers suspected of having contracted covid-19 and who were tested using the PCR process. During the 48 hours of waiting for their results, both their doctors and their employers asked them to go to work. This means, for home helpers, being in close contact with elderly, sick or disabled people for two days, in the uncertainty of being carriers of covid-19. We would also like you to clarify the protocol used for the implementation of screening. How should the waiting period for results be organised? Is there an obligation to go to work, whether for home helpers or for other professions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u169	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u170	I am going to try, honourable Member, to answer the three questions of your colleague David Habib and to make a global point on screening, which is indeed one of the important issues of deconfining. That is why our country has made a national effort to be able to perform up to 700000 tests a week. On this occasion, I would like to thank all those who have already mobilized to make this objective possible, be it laboratories of university hospitals, CHUs, private medical biology laboratories, including veterinary laboratories, departmental laboratories, police and gendarmerie laboratories, research laboratories and other specialized laboratories. All have not yet been mobilized, but we will soon need them because, beyond the numbers of the screening, the important thing and what the Government has committed itself to is to allow every Frenchman who has symptoms, no matter how slight, to carry out a test within 24 hours after seeing his doctor, in order to give us the means to identify the people who come into contact with him if the test is positive – this is the third part of the strategy, with tracing. That is how we will stop the circulation of the virus. Last week, it was 300000 French who came to their doctor or drive to perform a test. That's a lot, and that means that our compatriots have changed their attitude to testing. It appears that the positive testers came into contact with only 2.3 people on average, less than we had envisaged. However, this is not yet enough: we must be absolutely certain that no symptomatic person hesitates to consult and get tested. That is why, as of this week, we will mobilize our testing capacity to go to meet the French and propose to each of those who have symptoms to go and get tested at the slightest doubt. There will be more tests thanks to the drives, these sampling spaces now well known, located in the open air or in places of passage. These tests will multiply and we will strengthen the sampling teams with the help of professionals. Tests will also be carried out in all confined or apparently exposed locations. Olivier Véran asked all SRAs to initiate systematic screening, including in slaughterhouses. It will also continue to be used in hospitals, EHPADs and medical and social institutions wherever they are essential to protect vulnerable or exposed people. It is a matter of doing massively in all areas where the virus is actively circulating, to uncover hidden transmission chains. The delta that we have between testing every week and the ability to build power allows us to pursue proactive policies among populations that are most at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u171	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u172	My question extends that of our colleague Christophe Bouillon and relates to a case referred to by the Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health: that of slaughterhouses. Among the effects of a breakdown, regardless of the epidemic, are the discovery of outbreaks of infection. Testing is a major issue in this regard. And among these households, in departments so far relatively little affected by the epidemic of covid -19, there have been three slaughterhouses – one poultry slaughterhouse in Vendée and two others located respectively in the Côtes-d'Armor and in the Loiret – where the tests showed a significant development of the epidemic among the employees. A number of questions arise, especially since other slaughterhouses abroad – I am thinking of the United States and Germany – are also the framework for the epidemic development of covid-19. The declarations of the SRAs of the regions concerned suggest that the specific activity of slaughterhouses is not at issue a priori, nor the ventilation and cleaning systems, and that the sanitary protocols – the distribution of masks and the provision of hydro-alcoholic gel – have been respected by the establishments. At this stage, do you have any additional information to give to the national representation on the origin of these epidemic outbreaks? Is it linked to a particular activity at these slaughterhouses? Further question: can you reassure our fellow citizens that there is no risk of contamination by the consumption of food products from these slaughterhouses? It is well known that in this type of crisis, the psychological effect can be quite terrible. However, the industry was already in great difficulty even before the episode of the covid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u173	Bravo, Mr. Brindeau!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u174	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u175	Mr President, these are in fact two cases which have been detected, namely that of the slaughterhouse in Vendée, which is not a real cluster, since the rate of contamination on the spot is considered to be the same as that of the rest of the population. It is normal to discover clusters, since the virus is still present and we still have to live with it. Hence our ministry's responsibility to identify and control them. A strategy for early detection and wide-ranging testing involving contact persons has been in place since early May, particularly with regard to professional circles. It is true that the slaughterhouse is an open place, with a constant come-and-go, and one can understand the concerns of the professionals and the people in the area. I do not have any additional information to provide you at this stage: the investigations are still under way and, to date, they have failed to identify any factors related to this type of activity that would promote the spread of the virus. I confirm that the health rules are respected in slaughterhouses. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has prepared a good practice guide for them to assist them in the implementation of these measures. I would add that, at local level, veterinary health inspection services accompany slaughter and poultry slaughterhouses. I conclude by recalling, and it is important to reassure our fellow citizens, that the ANSES, the National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and the Work, has specified that the virus could not be transmitted by the food – in this case the meat from these slaughterhouses – with its lifespan limited – two hours on one surface. Of course, ANSES also points out that compliance with good hygiene practices is always necessary to prevent the risk of microbiological contamination – including coronavirus. To avoid any risk, consumers are advised to cook their meat, but ANSES considers that there is currently no scientific evidence that farmed animals – or pets – could transmit covid -19. Let us reassure the French in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u176	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u177	For a week now, we have entered the first stage of the deconfining process, with the indicators available to us suggesting that the epidemic is beginning to decline. However, scientists agree that no assessment of the spread of the virus can be made for at least two weeks. Therefore, the possibility of a second wave remains open. The Minister of Health has indicated that coronavirus continues to circulate in our country: since the beginning of this new phase, twenty-five outbreaks of contamination have been identified. They cover all regions, with the exception of Normandy and Corsica. Screenings are still under way in the two slaughterhouses we have just mentioned, one located near Orléans and the other in Saint-Brieuc: more than 100 people have already been declared positive at the covid-19. This raises the question of the effectiveness of workplace safety measures, especially since these new clusters appeared in mostly closed and active places during the confinement period. The return to work of many French people since 11 May makes it even more crucial to define new safety and health rules at work. My question will focus on the role of occupational medicine in this new post-confinement protocol. Indeed, during the presentation of their report from the "Work and Employment" flash mission, in the framework of the work of the Social Affairs Committee on the monitoring of health and social measures taken by the Government, our colleagues Stéphane Viry and Fadila Khattabi stressed that many economic actors regretted the lack of involvement and responsiveness of occupational medicine during confinement, many of whom said they had not been sufficiently supported. Astonished by this fact, I would like to know, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, how occupational medicine has been associated with the production of the national deconfining protocol for companies. What is the role and mission of occupational medicine in accompaniment of companies during this period?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u178	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u179	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u180	Since the end of the strict confinement on 11 May, many employees are indeed returning to work, Madam Member, when telework is not possible – I would remind you that the Prime Minister has asked the French to continue to telework during this new period to the extent possible. We rely on occupational health services to support both employees and businesses in their return to work. In this regard, their tasks have been reorganized so that they can devote less time to their regulatory activities and more to the adjustment of working conditions, to adapt them to the new health requirements and to the exceptional context in which we find ourselves. You probably know that business records, sector by sector, were drawn up by Muriel Pénicaud and Laurent Pietraszewski. The fact sheets, which complement the national deconfining protocol for companies, must be used as a support for occupational doctors to enable them to resume their activities in companies. We have also mobilized doctors at work in the fight against the spread of coronavirus. A decree published on 12 May in the Official Gazette now authorizes them to prescribe work stoppages if they concern this virus – so far only treating doctors could do so. However, occupational physicians will not be allowed to prescribe screening tests. It is indeed important, in the context of the contact tracing strategy that we are putting in place, to rely on the treating physicians, since they will then be responsible for the identification of contact cases in the positive patient's entourage. Occupational doctors are now an indispensable part of the strategy for resuming activity and fighting coronavirus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u181	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u182	Since the beginning of the pandemic, and not only since April, as claimed by the Government's spokesman, WHO has been advocating massive screening campaigns. It is a question of testing, isolating and finding contaminated people, not just to settle the curve; It really needs to be a strategy to control the epidemic. Not only did this government slow to implement this strategy, but a month ago, the Minister of Health was disposing of himself in a caricatural or even gross manner, turning me in contempt of the example of South Korea to refuse to answer me about the development of massive screening, including by using the containment period to extend this strategy and thus ensure that the places where the virus continued to circulate were found. The Government now seems convinced of the need for this strategy, but the question now is how to deploy it on the ground and how many tests, exactly, France is able to perform. The Prime Minister had announced the target of 700000 tests per week from 11 May – a goal far from being achieved, as confirmed by the survey published a week ago by Franceinfo. The figures, including those of the Government, show that only 360,000 tests have been carried out, half of which is the target set and stated by the executive. The number of tests has stagnated, or even decreased since 20 April, due to logistical and coordination problems, but also a lack of resources, particularly for laboratories. Not all structures are sufficiently solicited. The Agence Santé publique France is not able to provide complete figures because, in the absence of an automated information system, the reporting of data remains laborious. In short, not all means have been used to achieve the objective. This is the result of political choices and a refusal to mobilize the entire productive apparatus. So the question is how many tests, exactly, we are able to do now and how you plan to roll out the massive screening campaigns that are needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u183	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u184	I have already responded to some of the points you raised in replying to Mr. Habib. Our goal is to be able to test 700000 French per week.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u185	What are the abilities?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u186	But this figure is not a totem: it is a question of being able to test all French people with symptoms and then, in accordance with the strategy of "protecting, testing, isolating" that you mentioned, the people with whom they have been in contact. That is how we will end the circulation of the virus. We are currently testing 50000 French per day, or about 300,000 people per week. These are the figures that go back to the SI-DEP – the national covid-19 screening information system – in which the various laboratories capture the number of people tested positive. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that the PCR tests are fully reimbursed, and that the serological tests that will be validated by the High Health Authority will also be reimbursed. I also failed to answer a question earlier about the delay in waiting for the test result: Minister Olivier Véran met with all the laboratory representatives to ensure that these delays would be shortened and in line with health requirements. The target is therefore 700000 tests per week,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u187	What about abilities?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u188	... and our capabilities must enable us to carry out these tests if the need arises. Today, 300,000 French are tested every week and we are also pursuing a complementary, proactive policy, inviting – as Jérôme Salomon, the Director General of Health, did earlier – every Frenchman who thinks he has symptoms to be tested. Fragile audiences living in confined areas will also be subjected to massive testing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u189	Do we have the capacity to do so?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u190	We will be able to carry out this strategy we need to stop the circulation of the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u191	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u192	You said a few moments ago, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, that children had to return to school. We fully agree. However, the context should be borne in mind. Children and adolescents were confined to their homes. Their parents have turned into teachers or teachers, which has not always been easy. A rhythm of life has been established. You say that children must absolutely return to school, but by putting a flat on this principle, since this recovery takes place on the basis of volunteerism, which will not be possible for everyone – such a decision cannot be voluntary in the families where both parents work. This choice also poses a problem in terms of republican equality, since you break with the compulsory nature of the school by taking a step towards volunteering. We are also faced with a complicated context. While parents are worried, they are told that they have to learn to live with covid-19 and that they can send their children to school. At the same time, mayors are asked to organize the establishments so that health distances are respected. They receive, a few days before the school's start-up, a complex protocol, which is then found to be a standard protocol, not necessarily corresponding to all the buildings, all of which are different from each other. Some school buildings were built before the war and others after, the corridors and stairs are not the same: there are a whole series of adjustments to be made. The children were traumatized. Will the State devote the necessary resources, financial as well as human, to help them fill their backlog?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u193	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u194	Generally speaking, the return of children to school takes place correctly and gradually. The teachers' pre-entry took place on Monday and, since last Wednesday, the children are gradually returning to school. The Minister of National Education and Youth, Jean-Michel Blanquer, had the opportunity to detail the figures: more than 90% of the municipalities opened schools and 80 to 85% of the schools reopened last week. It is true that some institutions and mayors face difficulties, mainly of a technical nature. We continue to accompany 3000 communes on the ground. The work of the academies is to be commended in this regard. Nearly 20 per cent of primary school pupils have been accommodated, and 55 per cent of the 380,000 teachers in schools are present to receive children. Moreover, as you know, colleges have been starting to reopen since yesterday. Periods of adaptation will also be necessary: we all have to adapt to this new world, in which we will have to learn to live with the virus. Currently, 92% of colleges are open and 25% of sixth and fifth grade students are welcomed. With regard to the means to be deployed to deal with the effects of confinement on children, two aspects must be distinguished: an educational component and, I believe – I am speaking here as Secretary of State for Child Protection – a psychological component. With regard to the pedagogical aspect, the Minister for National Education and Youth referred to the support mechanisms being developed, which will be deployed both before and during the summer, in particular around the concept of "learning holidays", so that children, while enjoying a holiday, will have the opportunity to catch up with the backlog they have for some. With regard to the psychological effects of our children, clear instructions have been given to teachers that the effects of confinement should be addressed with students and that they should be cared for, particularly by psychologists of national education, if they have problems. Also know that I am preparing, on the basis of a great work done by Robert Debré University Hospital, an analysis grid for parents, so that they can detect possible signs of ill-being in their children – since not all of them go to school – and ensure that they are taken care of. The psychological effects of confinement on our children are an important issue that we are working on with Jean-Michel Blanquer and within the Ministry of Solidarity and Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u195	Mr Hugues Renson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u196	While Paris is particularly affected by the circulation of the virus, for the past two months, the vast majority of Parisians have respected confinement in an exemplary manner. They respect the measures recommended to stop the spread of the epidemic. Thanks to their efforts and their discipline, thanks to the mobilization of medical personnel and that of the agents of the city, thanks to the solidarity of the associative fabric and the citizens themselves, the conditions were met to start a deconfination on 11 May last. In Paris as elsewhere, shops reopen, transport resumes, travel is carried out in a serious and responsible manner, schools are gradually regaining an essential activity for our children; and I welcome the collaboration between the Mayor of Paris and the Government in order to ensure that the process of decoupling takes place in the best possible conditions. However, it remains a subject that raises many questions and even misunderstoods. It is the closure of parks and gardens. Paris is a city of exceptional density. Families remained confined for eight weeks in small areas, including the poorest families. If they can now leave, they have no choice but to occupy the public road, in often narrow streets, effectively increasing proximity and contacts. Many of us believe that it is essential to reopen parks, gardens and squares, obviously with strict security and control measures. Milan and Madrid have done so; scientists and doctors approve it. In order to be effective, deconfinity must be understood, accepted and adapted to local realities. In Paris, the reopening of parks and gardens has become urgent. She's expected by all of us. It will, I believe, make it possible to gain space and thus to protect oneself better from the virus. Does the Government intend to respond to that legitimate request?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u197	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u198	I recall that Paris is located, like the whole of Île-de-France, in a red zone. We announced it at the time of the deconfination. As you know, the presence of the virus is decreasing throughout the national territory, but less rapidly in the red areas. In these areas, we must, by definition, remain extremely careful. Defining is progressive – we announced it as such. As you pointed out, businesses have reopened. Defining is also freedom of movement. This way we can move as we hear it. But we want to avoid groups of people, who can promote the spread of the virus. The comparison with the public roads and streets of Paris is not entirely relevant: in these spaces people move, they are not static. This is precisely why parks and gardens were excluded from reopening as early as 11 May in red areas – and not in green areas, where it is true that, subject to the application of health rules, parks and gardens have reopened: there is a risk of encouraging static groupings of people close to each other, which would facilitate the spread of the virus. I want to point out that in some areas of the capital that look like parks and gardens – I am thinking of some esplanades or the Champ de Mars – these groups are being observed. We have also seen this phenomenon on the edge of the Saint Martin Canal, so much so that the police prefecture, to which I wish to pay tribute, had to deploy in order to disperse. The risk is therefore real, and we want to limit it by leaving the parks and gardens closed, both in Paris and throughout the Île-de-France. Once again, this situation will be reviewed in the light of developments in the health situation in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u199	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u200	You are making a welcome assessment of the first week of debunking, which I thank you for. As announced by the Prime Minister, adjustments and revisions to the deconfining plan will take place in the context of the epidemic. In the territories, elected officials, state services and relevant actors meet to organize the deconfinement and propose measures adapted to local demands and challenges. This is particularly the case for mountain activities. Deputy elected in a partly mountain riding, I appreciate the importance of this collective work to allow access to a heritage so dear to the French. How can I imagine a Savoyard forbidden from Mont-Blanc, a Bigourdan without the Pic du Midi, a private Lozérien of the Cevennes? Valorizing our mountains and ensuring that they are not forgotten in containment, support and recovery plans is essential, first because the mountain brings together all the conditions conducive to the implementation of health measures, and secondly because it helps to boost our rural areas. While mountain activities have resumed, under several conditions, since 11 May, this resumption of activity remains uneven according to the territories. In recent days, we should be able to refine the reopening criteria for non-hazardous activities. What do you get from this first week of deconfination for the mountain? Can we consider further measures for the resumption of activity by 2 June? Do you have any details about the reopening of shelters and ski lifts – and, more generally, about all the activities in the mountains, especially with a view to the summer holidays of the French? I know, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior, that the Government will live up to the expectations of making the right decisions – perhaps not always the most popular, but the most responsible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u201	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u202	Mr President, as you point out, a new phase has indeed begun since 11 May: individual outdoor sports activities are again possible without any time limit, within a 100 km radius around the home and, of course, respecting certain rules. Across French territory, certain territories have been reopened to the practice of these sports activities. Since 11 May, it has been the responsibility of the State services, in liaison with the communities, to provide for access to spaces of practice, taking into account health measures and the potential mobilization of relief services. This gradual reopening was, as you pointed out, thanks to the remarkable work of all the players in mountain sport – federations, unions and schools. Together, they have worked to define the organisation of the practice of each of these activities – hiking, mountaineering, climbing and canyoning – for which very precise guides detail the conditions under which these sports practices can take place. These proposals have also been incorporated into the guides prepared by the Minister of Sport, Ms.Maracananu. The purpose of these guides is to provide all practitioners with benchmarks to enable them to resume sport safely, by adopting responsible behaviours to limit the spread of the virus. As for the first assessment, since this is your specific question, the return to practice, especially for mountain activities, is gradually organized, with local authorities issuing precautionary instructions, which are followed. As you pointed out, outdoor activities are also very dependent on infrastructure – ski lifts and shelter accommodation. The ski lifts are gradually reopening – this is the case, for example, of the Aiguille du Midi cable car. With regard to shelters, actors, state services and communities are currently working on site identification and health protocols for potential opening up in the coming weeks, in conjunction with the next steps of deconfining. That is what I can tell you, honourable Member, by welcoming once again the work carried out by all the actors in a spirit of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u203	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u204	What's going on after eight days of debunking? First of all, the dysfunctions in the economic aids introduced by the Government, with for example the impossibility of individualizing the partial activity other than by an enterprise agreement. It is a long and costly process. Why can't a company shut down for at least fifty-five days unilaterally decide who should be able to continue to benefit from partial unemployment? Such a mechanism must be created to avoid economic redundancies. The second part of the breakdown: schools. In my home, only about 10 per cent of the students went back to school. Why so little? First, because of the health protocol sent to the institutions, which scared the parents. Instead of reassuring, you have worried, and sometimes even caused panic with these sixty-three pages – just that! – to clarify the constraints that schools must respect. A real croquemite! On the other hand, there was no question of having the staff of schools and nurseries tested: the ARS refused to do so, whereas the tests would obviously have been a good way to reassure the parents. Last: Will you finally trust at the local level? Despite all your great statements, you continue to adopt a Jacobin operation. I will give one example which, if it is not in my constituency, is still close to my heart: that of the Puy du Fou. "We have taken important steps, we are organizing traffic so that flows do not cross, we distribute hydro-alcoholic gel, we disinfect all places and most of our shows take place in the open air. If we ask to reopen, we know what we're doing," said Nicolas de Villiers, director of Puy du Fou, a few days ago. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, As with places of worship, it is always double standards: zoological gardens are opened, but not the Puy du Fou. We allow the subway, but not the gatherings in the churches. Comprehensive who can, but many French do not understand your logic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u205	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u206	Madam Member, your question covers many issues and I will try to answer them as much as possible. Forgive me, however, to begin by stating that I will refer the question of partial unemployment to the competent minister. As far as schools were concerned, a sixty-three-page health protocol had been issued, since the health protection of children and teachers had to be guaranteed. Overall, on the ground, things went very well between mayors and prefects, and the largest number of schools were able to reopen without difficulty, which is a very good thing. You also mentioned the fact that the SRA in your area has been asked to be able to test some people. However, the testing policy has been defined by the Government, as it is a health policy and therefore a State competence. You know that it has been decided to test massively: we have been able to carry out 700000 tests a week, in order to be able to test people with symptoms and contact cases, as well as in certain communities and places, including EHPADs. This test policy, which has been decided, is intended to be effective and it is therefore normal that the SRA in your territory has not granted your request. As for the rallies you mentioned, you cited the example of the Puy du Fou, but you could have taken many others – this is the discussion we had earlier about monuments and large museums. What we want to avoid, as I said in reply to Mr. Renson, is population brewing, human circulation, and crossovers that could promote the circulation of the virus. This is why, on the other hand, some small museums have been reopened, which have a local reach and do not have a large population. But all major amusement and activity parks remain closed until June 2, for the only reason I have just indicated: in order to avoid major gatherings to prevent the spread of the virus. So that's a good measure. We will see, in view of the evolution of the virus in our country, the decisions that will be taken from 2 June.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u207	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-05-19-O1217.u208	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Debate on the desirability of a fourth industrial, ecological and digital revolution; Discussion on the shortage of medicines in France; Questions on decisions related to the management of mask stocks. The meeting is adjourned.
