ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u2	We are dealing with the examination of appropriations for the missions "Management of public finances" (No. 3399, Annex 25), "Transformation and public service" (No. 3399, Annexes 25 and 26; No. 3404, Volume IX), "Unallocated appropriations" (No. 3399, Annex 26), "Social and pension schemes" (No. 3399, Annex 35; No. 3488, Volume IV) and "Repayments and allowances" (No. 3399, Annex 37), as well as appropriations for the special accounts "Management of the real estate of the State" (No. 3399, Annex 27) and "pensions" (No. 3399, Annex 35); No 3488, Volume IV). The next speaker is Mr Alexandre Holroyd, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u3	The missions "Management of public finances" and "Transformation and public service" have as common ground to trace appropriations that are heavily involved in the transformation of public action. Let us be lucid: without them, there will be no effective recovery for our country. We started this project from the beginning of the quinquennium. The main economic and financial directorates of Bercy, the Directorate-General for Public Finance and the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Rights, play a vital role for our citizens. It was therefore essential to ensure that they were able to fulfil this role more effectively and to adapt to the ever-changing challenges of the twenty-first century. The Directorate-General for Public Finance – DGFiP – has been involved since 2020 in setting up a new community network. This will improve the reception conditions of users, whether they live in rural, urban or peri-urban areas, and rebalance the location of services to the territories. This "deconcentration of proximity" is reflected in the commitment of the Directorate-General for Public Finance to the "France services" approach, as it is essential that the same level of demand and quality be guaranteed to all our citizens. It is the objective of this deconcentration of proximity, which signifies the return of public service to the heart of the territories – a modern public service, capable of providing a humane response to the needs of citizens. With regard to customs, the reorganisation has resulted in a tightening of the customs network and an increase in the number of staff to the geographical areas most affected by Brexit, in particular Calaisis and the English Channel. A few weeks from the end of the transition period and as negotiations continue, it is crucial for the some 100,000 French companies that import or export to Great Britain that traffic and trade be as fluid as possible. Both administrations are conducting large-scale IT projects aimed at filling the technological gap that has grown over the years. These projects, which have intensified since 2018, allow to develop the digital environment of agents, but also to fight more effectively against all forms of fraud and to facilitate the tax and customs procedures of economic operators. The last challenge concerns the transformation of the trades themselves and the modernisation of procedures: today it is a question of thinking about the public finance and economic control professions of tomorrow. This development implies – I have already had the opportunity to say so – careful listening to the agents and constant consultation with their representative organisations. The 2021 budget of the missions concerned is part of this transformational dynamic and deepens it. This is reflected in the major reforms planned in 2021: the implementation of the territorial reform, in a logic of demétropolisation, as well as the gradual extension of the automatic declaration in the context of the source levy for the DGFiP. Customs will continue to establish a single national customs clearance window. It will also have to meet the Brexit deadline and implement its adaptation to the EU Customs Code. I have tabled several amendments to this effect on the non-attached sections of this second part of the Finance Bill for 2021. I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, to the urgent need to bring close support and visibility to the officers as much as possible. I come to the appropriations of the mission "Transformation et fonction publique". Its objective is to support public transformation through the co-financing of projects submitted by the administrations. Between 2018 and 2022, EUR 1 billion is expected to contribute to the renovation of the administrative cities. Their housing stock is ageing and energizing, unfunctional and insufficiently adapted to the reception of the public, especially for people with reduced mobility. This energy renovation will result in a 50% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The Government's priorities in the fight against global warming also require an exemplary State that is successful in its ecological transition. EUR 700 million is allocated in this budget to the Public Action Transformation Fund, in order to co-finance innovative projects to improve the quality of public services and to modernise the working environment of public officials. €490 million has already been allocated to nearly 80 projects. The 352 "Digital Innovation and Transformation" programme, geared towards supporting intrapreneurship, allows co-financing of projects that provide concrete solutions to situations that generate friction between users and administration, or that improve the quality of the work of public officials. The agile operation of this programme, led by DINUM – the interdepartmental Directorate for Digital Affairs – seems to me to be very sensible and adapted to the challenges of a modern administration geared towards its users. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will conclude by recalling that the health crisis has unfortunately shown how imperative this transition from the administration to digital technology and to an organisation closer to its citizens is. I shall therefore vote for the appropriations for these two missions, and the La République Group is also in progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u4	Mr Eric Alauzet, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u5	In 2021, the 148 "Public Service" program, which actually corresponds to the human resources of the public service, will no longer be part of the "Public Financial Management" mission; it will be integrated into the mission "Transformation et fonction publique". The scope of this mission is thus aligned with that of the Ministry of Transformation and the Public Service: it is a measure of simplification, efficiency and dynamism in which staff must feel fully involved, because they are part of it. The draft finance law provides for EUR 224 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 217 million in payment appropriations for the 148 programme, i.e. increases of 5% and 2% respectively. Most posts are renewed for amounts similar to those of last year. However, I believe that three developments deserve to be highlighted and welcomed. First of all, with regard to the training of civil servants, the amount of allowances for diversity in the civil service increases from 2000 to 4000 euros per file for candidates in the integrated preparatory class – the ICCs; This measure will lead to an increase in expenditure of 1.5 million euros in 2021 and responds to a priority of diversification of the origins, talents and routes desired by the Minister Amélie de Montchalin.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u6	Excellent minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u7	In addition, a Government amendment relating to staffing was tabled. Secondly, with regard to inter-ministerial social action, the scale of home support in the civil service is aligned with that of the general scheme, with the creation of two additional aid tranches from 2021 onwards, at an additional cost of EUR 1.25 million compared to 2020. Finally, within the framework of the plan for the renovation of the administrative cities, the 148 programme will benefit in 2021 from a sharp increase in appropriations to speed up the renovation of the administrative restaurants, with EUR 12.7 million in commitment authorisations and EUR 6.5 million in payment appropriations. Of course, as you know, Program 148 does not in itself summarize the actions of the Directorate General of Administration and the Public Service – the AFPB. That is why I would also like to raise three issues that I wanted to explore in the context of this finance bill for 2021. First, as a result of the health crisis, the public service faces new organisational challenges related to the development of telework. My predecessors had pointed out, in the Spring of the 2020 evaluation, the massive use of telework during the containment period. In fact, the crisis has only accelerated a reflection that had begun long before and which has resulted in a decree of 5 May 2020 amending the procedure for the use of telework in the public service, allowing up to three days of telework a week, except in exceptional circumstances – and I believe that those we currently know are. If it is still too early to fully measure the effects of these developments, we must consider all the consequences that can result for public officials and for the organisation of the teams. This is a subject that we will have the opportunity to deepen in 2021 and that takes a particular resonance at the time when the progression of the second wave of the covid -19 intimate to the public service to take all its part in meeting the challenge of containment. Secondly, I would like to welcome the successful implementation of the PPCR system – career paths, careers and remuneration. It is planned to take place from 2016 to 2021 and is in the process of being completed. The AFPB has worked hard to implement it by enacting cross-cutting texts and coordinating the actions of the various ministries. This will have enabled the general status of civil servants to be modernised by harmonizing the rules on the three sides of the civil service – state, hospital and territorial – by improving the career prospects of public officials and by upgrading the index pay scales, particularly for category C staff. Thirdly, I would like to raise the issue of complementary health care in the public service. The generalization of complementary health care in the private sector in 2016 left the public sector lagging behind on this issue. While private employers are required to finance 50% of the additional health care of their employees, such an obligation does not exist in the civil service, which sometimes weakens the coverage of employees. However, the situation is changing, as the reform of the supplementary social protection of civil servants is announced as one of the priorities of the Minister for Transformation and the Public Service. Two reports on the subject were made public on 5 October. I myself had the opportunity to meet with representatives of the mutual UNEO, which is currently the second complementary health care in the public service and the first for the Ministry of Defence. I believe that it is important to make rapid progress on this subject in order to finally strengthen the social protection of our public officials, as there is an increasing proportion of staff, especially in the younger generations, who remain without complementary health care. Finally, I conclude with the "Unallocated Appropriations" mission. There is nothing to report about Program 552 "Inconclusive and Unforeseeable Expenditures", for which appropriations are maintained at the 2020 level. However, the 551 "Provision for Public Remuneration" programme has been significantly increased from €16 million in 2020 to €198 million in 2021. This increase is intended to finance the sustainable mobility package – which is increasing – the loyalty premium in Seine Saint-Denis as well as various measures announced as part of the July 2020 salary appointment. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Finance Committee examined and adopted the appropriations for the Mission "Transformation and Public Service" as well as those for the Mission "Unallocated Appropriations" without changing them. I shall therefore give a favourable opinion on the vote on the appropriations for these two missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u8	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u9	In addition to the many measures included in the public real estate stimulus plan, the 2021 finance bill entered in the special allocation account – CAS – "Management of the State's real estate assets" €370 million in revenue and €275 million in payment appropriations. The CAS balance would thus be raised by EUR 95 million in 2021. However, fiscal year 2020 remains uncertain. The third amending finance law had reduced the initial revenue forecast from €380 million to €320 million, a decrease of €60 million, and the fourth amending finance law specified that the proceeds of the 2020 real estate divestitures were EUR40 million lower than expected under the original finance law. In any case, the decrease in payment appropriations is significant – it is 38.48 % – and is in line with a multi-year trend, due to the attrition of revenue from divestitures, further aggravated by the health crisis and containment. Clearly, the CAS "Management of the State's real estate assets" suffers from contrary dynamics in terms of its resources and uses, respectively. It accounts for only 4.6% of expenditure on payment appropriations under the State's real estate policy, which marginalises it. In this context, I am pleased that at the end of 2019 the decree implementing the reform of the "Duflot" haircut, which the National Assembly adopted in the 2019 Finance Act on my proposal, was published – certainly late. This will preserve the proceeds of the transfer for the benefit of the State where the community concerned has substantial land reserves. If it is still too early to evaluate the results, it can be hoped that certain perverse effects linked to real estate speculation at the expense of the state's assets will cease. The CAS will also need to be strengthened by increasing sustainable resources. The share of royalties in revenue remains too small, which is why I hope that the government's real estate management and the ministerial directorates will continue to experiment with alternative valuation methods to divestiture. The ninety-nine-year emhyteotic lease of a private hotel on rue de Grenelle, which was put on the market in 2020, should prefigure the experimentation of other emhyteotic leases over shorter periods, of the order of seventy years, if the market proves to be interested in this formula. The contract will also be tested on the project of a capitalized or annualized rent, as well as on clauses of interest of the State in the event of the transfer of the commerciality of the property by the lessee for another property. I welcome these initiatives. Let's go to the credits in the recovery plan for public real estate. While we can welcome an unprecedented effort of €4 billion for thermal renovation – €300 million in high schools and €3.7 billion for state buildings and communities – the problem of the maintenance and energy performance of buildings needs to be integrated as upstream as possible into the management of the state's housing stock. In this regard, it is regrettable that the fourth amending finance law abolishes EUR 32.1 million of payment appropriations for the maintenance of buildings due to delays in the 743 programme. These credits would benefit from being carried over to the future maintenance of the buildings. While the first call for projects ended on 9 October, I wonder about the proper use of funds committed on an emergency basis for projects that had not been retained in the past due to lack of funding. Indeed, if a building can die for decades – even hundreds of years if we take the case of the Louvre, for example – we must ensure that the projects chosen in this first call for projects and financed by public debt are in line with a long-term logic and are structuring for the community. The filter chosen – the energy impact of the proposed works and the ability to carry them out quickly so that the appropriations can be committed by 31 December 2021 – would be worth facing with the budget savings that this work will bring to the public real estate assets. These savings should be integrated into the future management of these buildings as long-term resources that would no longer be needed. The Government has made a separate call for projects for the renovation of higher education and research buildings, which is consistent as they account for one third of the value of government real estate and have poor energy performance. Moreover, arbitration will be necessary between projects of more than €5 million, the selection of which will take place at the level of the government's real estate management in order to avoid any region or ministry appearing as privileged to the detriment of others. At this stage, we have little indication of how the Government will proceed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Notwithstanding these reservations and questions, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the appropriations of the mission "Management of the State's real estate assets".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u10	The next speaker is Mr Alexandre Holroyd, alternate Mr Olivier Damaisin, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you to show a little imagination since I am here in place of Special Rapporteur Olivier Damaisin, who is prevented for imperative reasons. It is therefore my honour to present, as a first step, CAS credits to the social and pension schemes of State and military officials as well as to the state workers' regime. In a second phase, I will present the appropriations for 2021 of the "Social and Pension Plans" mission, which brings state subsidies to special pension schemes with a demographic imbalance. Again this year, the "pensions" CAS is in surplus, with revenue reaching EUR 60.98 billion and expenditure of EUR 60.22 billion, up 1.03 % from 2020. Its annual balance would therefore reach €759.3 million in 2021, bringing the accumulated surplus to €9.8 billion by the end of next year. If the level of accumulated surpluses remains comfortable, two elements should be highlighted or reported. First, the annual amount of the balance tends to decrease. By 2021, it is expected to be more than 46 per cent lower than expected in 2020, due to more aggressive spending than revenue. Secondly, this accumulated surplus over the years should not give rise to misinterpretation. For example, it would be tempting to think that these reserves would allow for a reduction in the State's contribution to the pension scheme of these civil servants, with a view to achieving savings in staff costs. This is not the case: deficits are indeed expected after 2022, and the forecast of a significant medium-term financing requirement makes it necessary to build up this precautionary reserve. Finally, I welcome the completion of the reform of the State Pension Service – SRE – which will be, at the end of 2020 and according to the planned timetable, the manager of all processes for the liquidation and payment of pensions of State officials. I now turn to the "Social and Pension Plans" mission. The appropriations allocated to it decrease by 1.19% compared to the programming for 2020, reaching €6.15 billion in 2021. There are several reasons for this decrease. First of all, the funds allocated to closed and rapidly declining schemes, including the mining regime or that of the National Tobacco and Matches Industry Corporation (SEITA), are decreasing by 4.54%, due to the decline in the number of beneficiaries. Secondly, contributions to the mission's three main plans – namely the pension plans of SNCF, RATP and sailors – are lower than those voted in the original Finance Act for 2020. They amount respectively to EUR 3.29 billion for the SNCF pension scheme, EUR 737 million for the RATP pension scheme and EUR 809.59 million for the seamen's pension scheme. However, I would like to draw your attention to several uncertainties regarding budgetary programming for 2021. First, the funding needs observed in 2020 are expected to be smaller than initially anticipated for some schemes. As a result, in 2021, the state subsidy may not be lower but may be higher than or equal to that paid in 2020. Secondly, the implementation of the partial activity for these sectors of activity results in less revenue. While the RATP pension fund should be able to mitigate the shock from unconsumed credits in 2020, the issue of offsetting these lower revenues could arise in the year 2021 with regard to the scheme for sailors and SNCF, whose loss of profits is estimated at €76 million. Finally, the health and economic crisis is not without consequences for SNCF, RATP and the maritime sector. If its effect is still largely unpredictable, this very degraded situation could result in lower than expected contributions in 2021, resulting in an increase in the State contribution. Thus, and even if the "Social and Pension Schemes" mission traces expenditure constraints, it is marked, like all the missions in the general budget, by a high level of uncertainty due to the health and economic crisis that we are going through. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote for the appropriations for the "pensions" CAS and the "social and pension schemes" mission, which have been adopted by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u12	Mrs Pires Beaune, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u13	Since the early 2000s, repayments and rebates have been increasing at a steady pace – on average 5% per year. They stood at €61 billion in 2001; they exceeded the symbolic bar of 100 billion euros in 2016; They are expected to reach EUR 152 billion by 2020. The budget for 2021 is a break, as expenditure is expected to fall sharply to EUR 126 billion. In 2020, the forecast has been substantially revised, as confirmed by the fourth amending finance bill. Compared to the original finance law, it would increase by EUR 11 billion. Part of the reason for this revision is the spontaneous evolution of revenues as a result of the economic crisis. In addition, companies were able to obtain an accelerated refund of their value added tax credits – VAT – and certain corporate tax credits. However, these measures explain only half of the revision, the rest being due to external causes of the economic crisis, in particular the increase in the cost of tax litigation, for almost EUR 4 billion – I will come back to that. In 2021 and for the first time since 2013, expenditure would fall sharply compared to the previous year: it would fall by 26 billion euros. As far as state taxes are concerned, this is due to the sharp increases in 2020, which I have just mentioned and which would not be repeated in 2021 – at least I hope so. With regard to local taxes, the removal of the 80 % housing tax rebate will reduce expenditure by EUR 14.2 billion, while the reform of production taxes will lead to a reduction of EUR 2.1 billion. However, these forecasts remain fragile: it is difficult to predict the rate of recovery, the behaviour of companies and the evolution of their performance; The expenses associated with tax litigation are, as every year, surrounded by considerable uncertainty. Because of the budgetary risk that these procedures pose to our public finances, I think it is important to make a point about these tax disputes. Indeed, the years 2020 and 2021 should see the budgetary outcome of long-standing and very costly litigation procedures for the state. In 2020, this spending is expected to reach €3.9 billion in standard litigation, plus €2.6 billion in exceptional corporate tax litigation. By 2021, expenditure on standard litigation alone would reach €2.5 billion. I would like to recall two important points. First, the cost of interest moratoriums is expected to reach €2.3 billion in 2020 and €1.3 billion in 2021. The decrease adopted in 2017 is only valid for the future, and interest has been acquired under old procedures. However, due to the inadequacy of its information system, the tax administration is unable to properly assess the potential budgetary consequences of a further change in the rate of interest moratoriums, which is equal to that of interest arrears. Our committee has adopted an amendment on this subject. Secondly, the dispute over the contribution to the public electricity service – CSPE – concerns 14,000 proceedings before the courts and 55,000 applications and represents a financial stake of more than 700 million euros. The decree allowing the President of the Energy Regulatory Commission – CRE – to compromise was finally adopted. On this subject, I wanted to question the Government. When will the REB begin to resolve the files? Given the number of cases, what is the administrative organisation selected? Finally, on my proposal, our Assembly adopted last year an amendment asking the Government to publish information on "general regulations". This practice allows the tax administration to negotiate the duties and penalties owed by a taxpayer subject to tax control. It is not framed by the texts and, unlike the transaction, it does not prevent subsequent litigation. It is used by the administration when the quantum of corrections is difficult to establish or in the presence of a strong legal hazard. The data published by the tax administration, which you will find commented on in my report, are eloquent: 116 comprehensive regulations have been identified, covering EUR 3.2 billion of duties and penalties. Some EUR 1.6 billion in moderation was granted, of which EUR 1.1 billion was for rights, and almost one third was for a single operation. I do not criticise the existence of this procedure, but, in view of these issues and the implications of equal treatment between taxpayers, it seems to me important to have more information on how these transactions are conducted. By the way, I am still waiting, in my capacity as Special Rapporteur, for the response of DGFiP regarding access to these 116 comprehensive regulations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u14	We must conclude, Madam Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u15	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I conclude, Madam Chair, by thanking the services of FIPB that have transmitted all the questionnaires in time and time, and by inviting you to vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u16	Mrs Emilie Chalas, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u17	This year's finance bill is part of a particular context, marked by the health crisis that has plagued our country for almost eight months. In the ongoing fight against the virus, the public service allows the nation to stand up. I would like to pay tribute to the exceptional commitment and dedication of the 5.5 million public officials, regardless of their status, category and function, who work every day in the service of the general interest. On the budgetary front, I welcome the upgrading of individual or collective social action benefits to the tune of EUR 5 million. Following the financial trajectory initiated last year, it is a positive development that will contribute to improving the working and living conditions of government officials and their families. This year, I chose to devote the thematic part of my report for advice on human resources management in the public service to the test of the covid-19 crisis. In just a few weeks, the regulatory framework has been profoundly adapted through the law of 23 March 2020 establishing a state of health emergency. The organization and functioning of human resources have thus evolved in record time, with the aim of responding effectively and operationally to the containment of the population. Thus, the use of telework has grown enormously, highlighting the extent of opportunities but also the risks that this way of organizing can entail. Social dialogue continued through dematerialisation, in order to maintain permanent contact between public employers and trade union organisations. The arrangements for making staff available have been made more flexible with a view to facilitating the reinforcement of staff, in particular in favour of the hospital sector, which of course remains heavily involved in the health crisis. All these measures had a dual objective: to preserve the continuity of the public service and to protect those who operate it in the diversity of their missions. As such, the suspension of the waiting day during the state of health emergency between 24 March and 10 July 2020 was in the right direction. However, since 11 July last, it must be acknowledged that the lifting of this suspension has led to a legitimate misunderstanding. Indeed, how can we understand that the agents arrested because of their contamination with covid-19, whether symptomatic or not, are inflicted one day of deficiency, and not those placed in isolation as a contact case? While the state of health emergency has been restored throughout the national territory since 17 October, I reiterate my request to return to the suspension of the waiting day, in the interests of coherence and social justice, both in the public service and in the private sector. Beyond the necessary adaptation of the legal regime, the crisis related to covid-19 has also led to the renewal of managerial practices and methods. During my hearings as draftsman over the last few weeks, all the speakers in the three public offices stressed the need to accompany and train all the agents in managerial practices, especially in times of lasting crisis. I know, Madam Minister, that you are working with your services on these key issues, which will take on a crucial dimension in the years to come, as the first feedback on crisis management emerges. As rapporteur of the Public Service Transformation Act promulgated on August 6, 2019, I would like to point out that most of the implementing regulations have been published, such as the decrees on management guidelines, the precariousness premium for short-term contracts, the procedures for contractual recruitment, contractual breaks and ethics checks, or balanced appointments in senior management. Through this Act, the Parliament has also empowered the Government to legislate by ordinances. In addition to the ordinances on supplementary social protection and the codification of civil service law, I will mention above all the decrees on the reform of schools in the high civil service and on the modalities for the recruitment of category A staff. Seventy-five years after the creation of the ENA – the École nationale d'administration – by General de Gaulle, whose fiftieth anniversary we are celebrating today, this issue is of fundamental importance. It is part of the policy of equal opportunities and diversity, which is one of the priorities of the President of the Republic and of our majority. We must not question the meritocratic foundations on which our republican model is based, in accordance with Article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, which provides no distinction other than that based on virtues and talents. It is precisely for us to remain faithful to this principle guaranteed by our constitutional texts that I advocated, in my report for an opinion on last year's budget, for the strengthening of the ICC system in public service schools. By often successfully accompanying modestly qualified students in the preparation of administrative competitions, the ICCs are real levers for social promotion and diversification of profiles within the public service. In this regard, I warmly welcome the Government's decision to double its allocations from 2000 to 4000 euros per year in 2021. This will significantly improve the material conditions under which these candidates prepare the competitions, which will contribute to their success. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It was time to move ahead: the Government had to pursue an ambitious policy in the coming months, fully involving national representation in future reforms. This is a decisive democratic issue for the public service, of course, but also and above all for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u18	I call Mr Belkhir Belhaddad, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u19	A few months ago, which appears a century ago, our attention was focused on the issue of pensions. The crises have diverted us from it. They do, however, have a massive impact on our pension system, and they degrade financial balances. Above all, they reinforce inequalities in this difficult time for our fellow citizens – inequalities that our predecessors have slipped under the carpet in the fasty times and that break into our faces in times of crisis. It is from the dual perspective of economic and social sustainability that I have studied the appropriations of the Social and Pension Plans Mission and the Pensions Special Assignment Account of the 2021 Finance Bill. The first is the deterioration of the accounts. The latest projections of the COR – Pension Guidance Board – inform us that the deficit in our pension system will increase from EUR 1.9 billion in 2019 to EUR 25.4 billion in 2020, due to the severe deterioration in gross domestic product. Worse, the Institut Montaigne warns us about a need for funding of almost 30 billion euros by 2030, a 20% deterioration in the pre-crisis forecast. I have therefore proposed to my colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs to approve the State's contribution to special deficit schemes amounting to EUR 6.2 billion and to agree to earmark EUR 42.5 billion for civil and military State pensions. I am doing so in conscience and with the conviction that we will not be able to ignore the comprehensive reform that our system needs for a long time. Other emergencies take precedence – it is not to contradict my previous statement that to affirm it. I refer to the fight against inequalities – a struggle of every moment, even more necessary in times of crisis; a fight that leads me to invest alongside associations in working-class neighbourhoods; a fight that enlivens me against all forms of discrimination; an even more central struggle when the population is confined and poverty increases, revealing even more the flaws of our society and the shortcomings of our social protection system. That is why I decided to focus my report on the inequalities between women and men at the time of retirement. How long can we tolerate a woman's average pension being 40% lower than that of a man? How long will we accept such wage differentials in career development, with the boomerang effect it induces during retirement? Finally, how long will we admit that the criteria of penitibility exclude the professions of care and services to the person, mostly occupied by women and on which the cohesion of our society rests? To these questions, I answer: let's keep the best of our system reform project, but let's go further, do better and work without delay on measures that will help to reduce these inequalities better. Let us keep the increase of 5 per cent per child from the first child and 2 per cent per child for families with more than three children. Let us maintain the principle of maintaining the surviving spouse's standard of living by guaranteeing him or her 70% of the couple's previous income through the payment of the survivor's pension, and let us maintain other measures which have been proposed in the final text. Let us go further to promote equal pensions for women and men: let us reform parental leave without delay to promote a better distribution of domestic and family tasks; work on the sharing of pension rights within the couple during divorce, depending on the number of children raised during marriage; Let's measure the reversion to pacsed couples; Let us reform the criteria of penitibility to adapt them to the particularities of women's professions such as personal assistance or care; Let us increase the remuneration of teachers, who are mostly teachers in the first degree and who are among the least well paid in the public service because of their low premiums. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are the great reflections I wanted to share in this debate on the PLF for 2021. In the immediate future, I invite you to vote in favour of the credits from the Social and Pension Plans Mission and the Pensions Trust Account, because they finance the pensions of several million of our fellow citizens. However, I hope that my appeal will be echoed not only in our Assembly but also in the Government and the social partners. If the crisis that we are going through encourages prudence, the difficult futures that we can expect will require a great deal of determination and political courage on our part.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u20	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u21	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u22	The Government is promoting further modernization of administrative procedures for the benefit of users. In particular, the role of DGFiP is expanded: its new proximity network will be deployed, customs will remain mobilised against all traffics – what I still know. Nice words! Unfortunately, the reality is not up to date: fiscal year 2021 will be a new year of significant job losses, but also of the appropriations of the mission "Management of public finances". Moreover, since the beginning of the quinquennium, the administration has engaged in a continuous movement of closures of local services, including cash, under the pretext of sticking to local developments. On the one hand, the Government seeks to ensure physical contact in the territory; On the other hand, human means do not follow and the cash flow of proximity is gradually disappearing – beautiful contradiction! The Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties will also be downsized, under the guise of an effort to recover public finances. However, it is not in this area that savings should be sought: how, therefore, can we succeed in meeting the objectives of strengthening the controls announced by the President of the Republic himself at the end of last week, in order to combat both terrorism and the pandemic? While we particularly need to strengthen our border controls, you propose to reduce the number of customs officers – look for error! Customs officers had already gone on strike in 2019 to warn about the lack of human and financial resources they have to deal with Brexit. The possibility of a UK turnaround in this area should not be minimized, but it would be necessary to anticipate and prepare for possible border turbulence. The reduction of human resources is therefore not welcome at present. In addition, record seizures of contraband tobacco took place in 2019, with an increase of 49% compared to 2018, but also by 3.5% for narcotics. On the other hand, we welcome the specific increase in the resources devoted to IT investment and the modernisation of DGFiP's equipment. Nevertheless, the steady decline in its overall budget for several years will eventually prevent it from providing any local service, despite the recent headlines. The gradual end of the cash flow is a witness to this. Members of the Republican Group do not object in any way to reducing the number of officials when this is justified – we even consider that there is much to be done about it – but this reduction should not be decided blindly. There is a need to increase the number of staff to improve services to the population, including health and safety. Citizens are calling more than ever for community-based public services, accompanied by the corresponding means. I also greet all the staff who work on a daily basis throughout France. Emmanuel Macron had seemed to want to take these demands into account and had made commitments in the context of the great national debate. The path he takes is quite different. Finally, we regret the 8% reduction in the appropriations allocated to the "Customs, energy and environmental taxation" action. We hope that it will not lead to relaxation in the control and collection of certain taxes. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] In conclusion, the "Public Finance Management" mission is not up to the situation or the challenges. That is why the Republican Group will not endorse the choices made by the Government and will vote against its appropriations. Finally, on this day of commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the death of General de Gaulle, I could not conclude without quoting it: "between possible and impossible, two letters and a state of mind".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u23	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u24	As we are studying the missions "Management of public finances" and "Transformation and public service", allow me, on behalf of the Libertés et territoires Group, and I associate all the colleagues present here, to pay tribute to the commitment of our officials, especially during this crisis. I really thank them for everything they do for us and for our country, for maintaining public services that we were happy to rediscover and support, for their commitment, those who have often been on the front line. I will speak on three specific points: telework, the precariousness of the public service and dematerialization. The health crisis has shaken the working practices of the civil service. In the spring, many administrations resorted to forced and unprepared telework, allowing – more or less easily – the continuity of public services during confinement. But here we are in the same situation six months after... Are our administrations fundamentally better prepared?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u25	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u26	The first returns show an effort in this direction, but also delays in this regard, Madam Minister. We note the EUR 200 million mobilised for the deployment of remote working tools and the EUR 90 million to support local authorities, which obviously will make it possible to fill the shortage of equipment, but still have to deal with the problems of use and to put in place rules calling for teleworking to be extended to the public service whenever possible. We must also note, of course, brakes of another nature. I want to talk about the lack of a culture of telework in management, whether in the public service of the State or in the territorial public service: that of resistance! Few are really prepared for a generalization of telework. We need to change mindsets, breathe confidence and bring autonomy to agents – it's a question of managerial culture. In addition, the health crisis has highlighted recruitment difficulties: I am thinking in particular of carers, but this is valid in all three sides of the public service. Recruitment difficulties are due to low and minimal pay throughout careers, but also to the often precarious nature of the positions themselves. I also note the obsession with the systematic use of contractual employment. It could be conceived in a very well-paid and attractive public service, but this is not the case in the French public service. The question of strengthening the status of civil servants may be more relevant than the question of the generalization of contractual employment, because the reality of the lives of civil servants is rhythmic by restructuring and governed by rules that have become less protective in many areas. The lack of recognition and the level of remuneration cannot, of course, facilitate recruitment or prevent departures. It is really a vicious circle, except, of course, to push further for decentralization that would allow communities to have the means to achieve their goals. As for the reduction of staff, it is not the panacea, the alpha and the omega of real public policies. I have noted the removal of 1800 full-time equivalents – FTEs – which will result in cash closures in the territories. We do not deny the need to adapt these services to the implementation of the source levy, but we can only question the maintenance of the accessibility and quality of the service provided to taxpayers. Finally, I would like to conclude by referring to the dematerialization that has been taking place for several years. Its objective is commendable, but it must go hand in hand with a real offer in terms of human support, so that all our citizens can have the information they need everywhere. As you will understand, the Libertés et territoires group will abstain from voting on the appropriations for these missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u27	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u28	The health and social crisis and the important lessons to be learned this year gave us hope, perhaps naively, for a break in fiscal policy. That's not the case. With this government, the years, the budget cuts, follow each other and unfortunately are similar. Yet the state of our country and its public services is no longer the same; It fades from sight, especially at this moment. It is time to recognize that budget cuts and downsizing of all kinds, and in all missions, are not a solution to the crisis but the source of the problem. Like your predecessors, you attacked the public tax service. In 15 years, the number of agents has decreased by more than 20%, and you should still remove, in 2021, 1800 full-time equivalents as if nothing were, as if it were an insignificant detail between two budget lines. But the work of each of these agents counts, and more than ever this year. They are the ones who help, for example, individuals when they have difficulties with their taxes. In the midst of a social crisis, this accompaniment is not a luxury, but a vital necessity for many, especially when, as in September, millions of French people suddenly found themselves deprived after large sums of money were taken from their bank accounts, without sufficient notification or spread, because of the transition to the levy at source – a subject on which I have addressed to you, Madam Minister, a written question, which has remained as usual unanswered. These agents of the DGFiP, whose staff you further reduce by hundreds, help and advise not only individuals, but also SMEs, these small businesses that your government claims to want to support, and the local and regional authorities, on which it has allowed the state to rest since the beginning of the crisis, and which, despite this, it robs a little more of the support and tax advice supposed to be dedicated to them. On one hand, your government is increasingly politically discharging itself to communities, and on the other hand, it is weakening them by attacking tax services and reducing production taxes and housing taxes even for the richest, without knowing if compensation will be at the level. In other words, you are sowing disorder at a time when our country most needs stability and solid public services. It is all the more serious and absurd that these same services are supposed to fight tax evasion and evasion. As we go through a historical social crisis, we cannot treat either tax fraud or tax evasion as anecdotal subjects: they represent at least tens of billions of euros lost every year, or even 100 billion according to the estimate of the union of Bercy Solidaires Public Finances. If the crisis we are experiencing is a war, as you like to say, fraudsters are traitors and your budgetary signals are their accomplices. Our hospitals, our caregivers, our schools, our fellow citizens trapped in insecurity, and more generally the French people, are experiencing this crisis; all need more than ever to redistribute all the tax revenues stolen from our country by the richest and not to reduce them further, tax services equipped with human means to the tune of the stakes, a serious and planned budget that defines responsible political and human priorities, which does not seek to save a few euros here only by ideological obstinacy, destroying the passage of jobs and leaving the profitors of crisis to waste; They need decision-makers who increase social minima when they find that they are insufficient and who clearly admit that they have been wrong in trying to index retirement pensions to GDP, whereas at any time it can dive by ten points as is the case today. Rather than continuing to put in billions to prepare for pension reform in the name of I do not know what structural necessity the European Union imposes, rather than treating special regimes as the culprits of all our evils, the French need your government to come back to reason – and this applies to each of the underfunded missions in this PLF, especially those we are dealing with this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u29	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u30	First of all, let me take a moment out of the content of these budgetary discussions to welcome, in my turn, the extraordinary mobilization of all public servants since the arrival of the health crisis: those of the hospital public service, of course, but also all those who have ensured the continuity of public services. But actions are more eloquent than words, and that is why we must guarantee our officials the best possible working conditions and accompany them in this difficult time. For example, minister, the suspension of the day of default. On September 15, you publicly stated that "the day of failure was restored to the public service because we are no longer in a state of health emergency" and that "of course, we would be ready to suspend it again if it resumed." However, the state of emergency has fully resumed with the arrival of this second wave, but the Government refuses, despite the various warnings, to suspend again the day of failure for – a minimum – the duration of the confinement. This is unacceptable, because we know that this day of failure, as the unions point out in a letter addressed to you, "creates a postponement of the use of care, harmful to the health of agents, costly for social security, which can promote the transmission of pathologies by violating the prevention of the epidemic since it is an incentive to reduce any symptoms". Not to mention, of course, the cost of one day's deficit for the most numerous category C civil servants, who can thus lose from 40 euros to 60 euros, which represents a lot of money when one receives only 1300 euros net at the end of the month. The recognition of civil servants in this period also involves accompanying the agents who contracted the covid-19. I would like to stress here how inadequate the system of recognition of covid-19 as an occupational disease, as proposed by the Government, is because it is far too restrictive. After six months of waiting, the Government finally issued, on 14 September, a decree allowing care workers with covid-19 to be recognized as occupational diseases. This was essential, but it remains insufficient: by considering only pulmonary sequelae, the Government forgets all victims with temporary or permanent cardiac, neurological or cerebral sequelae. And the great forgotten of this system are all the others, the first of the trenches, among which many officials who have ensured the continuity of public services and have sometimes fallen seriously ill in the performance of their duties. The civil service unions were unanimous on this point: the Government's machinery must be expanded and simplified. As our country faces the second wave, it is urgent to show more respect to all those French people who are back on the front. We, members of the Socialist and Related Group, call in a bill tabled by Régis Juanico and Christian Hutin for the creation of a compensation fund that will allow a fair and prompt response to all the serious victims of this disease, including all these first trenches that ensure the continuity of our public services. During this time when our citizens need public services more than ever, we must also work to strengthen our local administrations. However, in the light of the examination of the appropriations of the missions "Management of public finances" and "Transformation and public service", we can only note, once again and with regret, the decrease in the resources allocated to the public administrations essential for the nation and for the French and the French. The willingness of the Government and the majority to continue the abolition of posts within the DGFiP is, as several speakers have said before me, unjustifiable. Bercy tries to legitimize this approach by evoking the dematerialization of procedures and territorial reorganization; But dematerialization is not an end in itself and it carries risks. While this government pursues its target of 100% dematerialized public services by 2022, it risks abandoning all people who are excluded from digital. Remember that the rights defender warned in 2019 about the risk of declining access to rights and exclusion due to the digitisation of administrative procedures, which concern seniors, but also many young people. The sharp downsizing of the Ministry of Economy and Finance – 2135 FTEs – is all the more incomprehensible as these administrations will be responsible for animating and deploying the recovery plan, so dear to Minister Bruno Le Maire. Unfortunately, it is not the only ministry that sees its staff amputations: the Ministry of Ecological Transition, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Labour, all of which must ensure the effectiveness of the recovery plan, are in the same situation. As you will understand, the Socialist and related group will not vote for the appropriations of the missions "Management of public finances" and "Transformation et fonction publique", and I regret that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u31	Mr Sylvain Maillard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u32	The 2021 budget of the "Social and Pension Schemes" mission reflects, as every year, the importance of the State's contribution to the financial balance of special schemes, which can no longer be self-financed. I would therefore like to pay tribute here to the preparatory work which has made it possible to strengthen the accounts of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Social Affairs; Thank you in particular to the Special Rapporteur Olivier Damaisin and the draftsman Belkhir Belhaddad. The health crisis has temporarily halted pension reform and exacerbated the imbalances in pension systems. However, there is an urgent need: we are facing a budgetary stalemate. Indeed, the special schemes of the mission "Social and pension schemes", very largely financed by national solidarity, merely prefigure what would become of our pension system in the absence of reform. This would obviously be untenable. Untenable economically. In a note delivered on 15 October, the Pension Guidance Board estimates that the pension system deficit will exceed EUR 25.4 billion by 2020. Untenable demographically. The special, for the most part very old, schemes prior to the creation of social security have a common characteristic of having a strong demographic imbalance and being unable to self-finance themselves. For example, in 2019, the SNCF special scheme had 1,34,991 contributors for 25,2356 retirees, representing a demographic ratio of about 0.63, in constant decline.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u33	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u34	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Socially unsustainable. The current crisis acts as a revealing and amplifying of fragility and inequality. The economic crisis is affecting the sectors most vulnerable to health and social distancing measures, in particular hotels and restaurants and cultural and leisure services. So yes, we need to create a fairer, more universal pension system. A bus driver in Essonne, Paris or Tourcoing must retire at the same age and with the same rights, it is a question of social justice. Unbearable to guarantee equality between women and men. Women have an average pension of 40 per cent lower than men. As pensions reflect past careers, pension inequalities are primarily the result of inequalities in the professional world: the use of part-time work, wage discrimination. Thus, women have less favourable careers than men and earn fewer pension rights. This brings us back to the imperative of a more equitable system. On the basis of this, ladies and gentlemen, we recognize that the time is grave for the future of our pension system. The economic crisis in our country is deep. In the absence of reform, the situation can only worsen in the medium term. The contribution of the general budget to the financing of special schemes and public servants' pensions reaches extreme levels – 49 billion euros in 2018. At the same time, the situation of the French with regard to pensions is profoundly unfair. This injustice manifests itself between generations, between sectors of activity, depending on the status and size of the enterprise. Can we, in this context, give up the reform of phasing out the special pension schemes, desired by two thirds of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u35	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u36	It is obvious that this is no longer an option. Should we be content with a less ambitious, parametric reform that would maintain the complex, illegible, inequitable framework of current regimes? Some people think so. However, the universal pension system has brought much progress. We cannot limit ourselves indefinitely to the current models, which are a matter of the past. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups]] The adoption of credits under the PLF 2021 is essential to maintain the standard of living of millions of pensioners, pending a comprehensive reform of pension schemes. Ladies and gentlemen, we must act in a responsible way by combining, without dogmatism, the return to balance of the accounts of our pension system with social justice. Our fellow citizens are asking for results; The universal system responds to their difficulties and makes it possible to secure our pension system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u37	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u38	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u39	In view of the interlocking of health, economic and social crises, the year 2020 has changed the operating methods and structures of our administrations. While the crisis of the Covid-19 continues to occupy a major part of the agenda and strikes the budgets of certain State administrations, which are already constrained and fragile, we take note of the fact that our public administrations must adapt to the different modalities of the state of health emergency. The "Public Finance Management" mission, with a total budget of EUR 10.10 billion in payment appropriations and EUR 10.17 billion in commitment authorisations, remains stable at constant scope compared to 2020. As the main mission of the State's economic and financial centre, this mission must make an exemplary contribution to the effort to recover public finances. This is why, despite the increase in the means of border control in the framework of Brexit, there are significant reductions in the number of staff: minus 2033 FTEs. The resources made available for IT investments and the modernization of organizations have also increased. We welcome and encourage the gradual restructuring and opening up of customs and DGFiP tax missions in the territories. Indeed, the DGFiP will implement a new community network in order to get closer to the users: fifty host cities, including Belfort which I am pleased to represent, have already been selected in early September in a large relocation plan of 2500 agents. In addition, in the context of the 2021 Finance Bill, the Budget Directorate presents a green budget, marking for the first time a significant improvement in the arrangements for assessing the compatibility of the State budget with France's international commitments, as well as the environmental objectives set by the Government. However, we must remain vigilant: we note that the balance of commitments not covered by payments due at 31 December 2020 is estimated as an annual performance project at EUR 580 million, subject to the impact of the health crisis, which could change this amount. In addition, the cessation of the forced recovery action from mid-March 2020 and the financial difficulties faced by the debtors in paying their fines in the context of the health crisis will also have an impact on the 2020 results. As with the yellow vest crisis, the impacts of the health crisis on the indicator result are likely to have their effects over several years, until 2022. We also regret the increase in investment expenditures, which will increase by 40.81 per cent in 2021 for the Mission as a whole. In particular, we are thinking of the funds allocated to the State's real estate management, which will continue its renovation projects in the midst of a health crisis, while the renovation of the premises is not always a priority. The Mission's appropriations are up 10.77 per cent in 2020 at constant scope, due to the transfer from the "Public Finance Management" mission of the new 148 "Public Service" program. Finally, the subsidy for public service charges stabilised in 2021, as part of the finalisation of the transformation plan of the ENA, which began in 2018, for an amount of more than 30 million euros, equivalent to that of 2020. The employment pattern of the permanent staff of the school was minus four FTEs in 2021. While the President of the Republic had proposed to abolish this institution during the yellow vest crisis, what about today? Should we continue to subsidize this plan? We need to consider the sustainability of the funding of this institution. The public debate shows that the French demand more justice, fairness and transparency vis-à-vis their institutions – we are thinking in particular of the bill by our colleague Thierry Benoit to prohibit the cumulation of a retirement pension and an activity allowance for persons appointed to the Constitutional Council and to state agencies. At a time when our citizens are demanding more justice, emphasizing transparency and ethics, it seems appropriate to put an end to these particular regimes. A multi-year contract of objectives and means will implement, from 2021 onwards, the priorities set by the Government with regard to ENA; We hope then to obtain more readability as to the evolution of the institution. For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group will not be in favour of adopting the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u40	Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u41	Allow me to begin my speech by paying tribute to our public officials, civil servants and contractors, who, since spring, have been unwaveringly committed to fighting the triple health, economic and social crisis. I would like to thank them for their commitment, which enables us to meet the many challenges we face. I want to highlight the exceptional work of our agents in the prefectures, the regional health agencies – ARS – but also of the DGFiP, and more broadly of all the agents involved. I also want to remind them that we will continue to engage with them to support them in the development of their professional careers. We welcome the successful implementation of the protocol on career paths, careers and remuneration. We have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that the next protocol, which is expected to be concluded this year, will further improve the career prospects of each of our public officials. This crisis also forces us to accelerate the transformation of the state. In the spring, administrations had to set up telework and innovative processes to continue working very quickly. This great movement must be continued and amplified. New issues are emerging in the digitization of user relations and in labour relations. I also want to stress the need for a better understanding of the issue of digital security. If we wish to continue the transition of administrations to digital technology that we have undertaken since the beginning of the quinquennium, we cannot refrain from pursuing a comprehensive policy on digital technology. It's about our sovereignty! With regard to the 'Repayments and Discounts' mission, we share with the Special Rapporteur, but also with the rapporteur-general and almost all the groups in this House, the constant concern to assess tax expenditure more strongly. With regard to the "Management of Public Finances" mission, the continuation of the three major projects undertaken since the beginning of the quinquennium continues to bear fruit. The creation of a new network of proximity to DGFIP shows all its advantages in the crisis we are experiencing. The agents of the DGFiP respond present to support all companies facing the crisis, as illustrated by the very rapid decline of the solidarity fund and the carry-overs of tax burdens, which have saved a large part of our productive heritage. Similarly, and this is a subject that I particularly care about as a resident of Pas-de-Calais, the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties – DGDDI – is actively preparing for Brexit. If agreement is not reached on the grounds of the United Kingdom's internal policy, which we would very much regret, I have no doubt that our customs officers will be at the meeting to protect the single market with the least possible inconvenience for trans-European trade. Finally, both DGDDI and DGFiP continue the major projects of transformation of the trades themselves and of the procedures. I welcome the continued modernisation of the support functions and the development of data mining, both in the area of tax controls for DGFiP and in the fight against fraud and major traffic through DGDDI's 3D project. I will conclude with a few words on the special trust account "Management of the State's real estate assets", whose special rapporteur is our very dear colleague Jean-Paul Mattei. We fully support its commitment to strengthen the CAS by increasing its sustainable resources. Indeed, the share of royalties in revenue remains too small. It is therefore necessary to continue to explore ways of valuing the very rich real estate assets of the State, which are alternatives to disposal, in particular with regard to exceptional assets. The emphyteotic lease for ninety-nine years of the Hotel de Grenelle shows the way. We too welcome the unprecedented effort of EUR 4 billion for thermal renewal. This work could be a source of budget savings, which should be better taken into account by the owning State. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] This morning we are called upon to review many trust accounts and missions, sometimes with evaluation appropriations. These different AQHIs and missions have one thing in common: this is a review of the management of government stewardship. On all these issues, we must continue to accelerate our efforts in the area of public transformation. That is why the Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related Democrats will vote unreservedly on the appropriations submitted to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u42	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u43	"Only one being is missing and everything is depopulated." Well, the public services of the state, you depopulate them to the detriment of officials and users, at the worst moment that the country is going through. If, last year, we were already reporting on the lack of human and financial resources of the DGFiP and the state services, the subject is unfortunately even more relevant since the health and social crisis caused by the Covid-19 has sown on its precarious passage and reforms carried out in the Hussarde. State officials are still being sacrificed today to save a few drawer bottoms. These men and women whose work is essential – everyone here has emphasized it – are thanked on the altar of modernization and the economy. However, as you have shown, it is possible to open the wallet when the situation so requires. Only, it's always on your terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u44	Yeah, that's the advantage...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u45	In all respects, the mission of "Public Finance Management" loses. As far as the budgetary appropriations for Programme 156 are concerned, it is therefore rising from EUR 7.77 billion in 2020 to EUR 7.62 billion with the PLF for 2021. Despite apparent stability, the trajectory is that of the decline. In terms of payroll, it accounts for 78 per cent of the Mission's appropriations and, unsurprisingly, its trajectory is also declining. The PLF for 2021 therefore foresees a new wave of redundancies. If last year, it was planned to separate from 1650 FTEs, well, this year, it is more than 2000 that will be abolished. This is unacceptable to us when we see how valuable, even essential, the work of government officials is. It is therefore quite normal for you to refuse to attach conditions to public aid, since you are separated from agents of the DGFiP who could have monitored compliance with it. Again this year, you welcome the effort to modernize this mission; You boast telework, linked to the management of the crisis of the covid-19, you boast of relocations with a new network of proximity and value the allocation to the remaining agents of extended missions. But increasing the workload of the agents will cause them to perform a lower quality of work. They alone will have to manage a portfolio of missions far too large. Everywhere in France, despite the current context, cash flows are being closed: at the end of October, many elected officials and inter-unions raised the tone on this subject. Because proximity cash is essential to maintaining vitality in rural areas, for example. But you do not step back, you refuse to hear reason and you explain it yourself in the budget blue. If we are likely to dematerialise, then we must keep local services and not abandon the rural world and the medium-sized cities. Once again, making use of the impossibility for French people to go to the counter to remove window posts is absolutely intolerable. Using telework to push the French to dematerialization and to eliminate jobs is no more tolerable. Before concluding, I would like to take stock of the "Social and Pension Plans" mission. If its credits are stable, we cannot accept some reforms. I am thinking of the unindexing of social benefits, in particular retirement pensions for the years 2019-2020. In 2019, it was 2.8 billion euros in savings and in 2020, it is 400 million – savings that are on the back of pensioners, a public that is already vulnerable. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will not vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u46	Oh, what a shame! ...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u47	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u48	We come together to talk about key issues in a complicated time. The time allocated to me will lead me to limit myself to the first two of the missions we are considering, "Management of Public Finance" and "Transformation and Public Service", which the Law Commission has examined for its opinion. The first of these missions concerns, in particular, public policies, operational expenditure, in the end, relating to the collection of revenue and payment of State expenditure, customs activities, staff functions, expertise, advice and control. Its appropriations – of EUR 10.2 billion – are down slightly and attest to a reasoned control of operating expenditure. This can be seen in programme 156, "Tax and financial management of the State and the local public sector", which deals with the means devoted to the revenue operations of the State and the local authorities, i.e. the expenditure related to the collection of debts and the execution of the expenses themselves. This can also be seen in programme 218 "Economic and financial policy management and control", which concerns the means devoted to the impetus of public policies carried out in Bercy by the Ministry of Transformation and Public Service. Finally, this is reflected in programme 302 "Facilitation and security of trade", which deals, if essential, with the functions assigned to the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties, whose role is to combat fraud and major international trafficking. The Action Together group will vote on the appropriations for the missions discussed this morning and in particular for the "Public Financial Management" mission. We welcome the commitment of the DGFiP to allow every Frenchman to have a reception point less than 30 minutes away from his home, thanks in particular to the deployment of France services houses and the efforts of the town halls. The number of these access points will increase by 20% by 2021 and will increase by 30% by 2023. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes this. In the same spirit, the deployment of 5100 nearby payment points, spread over 3400 communes thanks to the partnership with partner buralists, is a welcome step forward. Particular attention should be paid to digital support beyond physical points and to dematerialization in general. The second mission, "Transformation et fonction publique", aims to transform the action of the State, its modernisation and that of its operators. Several programmes have already been launched in this regard, and recent commendable developments such as recognition of the right to error or modernization of the status of the civil service can be noted. Work is under way on the dematerialization of approaches, transparency on the quality and efficiency of public services. This mission includes several programmes: programme 348, "Renovation of administrative cities and other multi-occupational public sites", a non-permanent programme on which I will not return; Programme 349, "Fund for the Transformation of Public Action". I am thinking of training projects for staff whose missions are evolving, which demonstrates the enhanced adaptability of our administrative staff; financing innovative digital products and services; Finally, interdepartmental training for State officials. The Action Together Group welcomes the efforts to modernize and optimize expenditure and the increase in appropriations for the renovation of administrative cities and the training of officials of the regional administrative institutes and the National School of Administration, in particular. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to join in the concert of praise addressed to our officials since this morning. In a December 2018 opinion, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council reported a relative decline in the value of public service trades among young graduates, which could explain the decline in the number of candidates in the competitions. The Group of the European People's Party stresses the need to maintain and strengthen the attractiveness of the public service professions, which are essential for a high-quality public service for all our citizens. Recent events – terrorist attacks, health crises – have highlighted the importance of these professions, the importance of State agents, local and regional authorities, police, justice, education and, in particular, health. It is imperative, in the better future – I am sure – that we will have to bear it in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u49	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u50	It is an honour for me to introduce you for the first time to this new mission "Transformation and Public Service". It includes the appropriations intended to accompany the sustainable transformation of the action of the State and its operators, to make it more efficient and to put it at the service of users. First of all, I would like to return to the political will that led to the creation of this mission. This new ministry is a common house for public services and intends to give new impetus to the transformation of the public action desired by the President of the Republic for the past three years. This new mission is the translation by dedicated means, a tangible and traceable action by you, deputies, members of the national representation. I like to say, since my election as a Member of Parliament, when I sat among you on these benches as Commissioner of Finance, that a budget is the translation of our political choices into means, not a sum of figures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u51	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u52	Thus, as soon as I took office, I wanted to bring the budgetary resources into line with the triple mission entrusted to me, which is to place within one and the same ministry all the levers of transformation of our administrations. It is the digital transformation, with the interdepartmental Directorate of Digital, the conduct of change and the strategy of public action at the service of the users, with the interdepartmental delegation to public transformation and, of course, the human resources, namely the men and women who make live on a daily basis this public service to which we are so attached, with the Directorate-General of Administration and the Public Service. With these three directorates under my authority, my ministry is thus the first to defend with such strength a vision of public action and to provide, above all, support to other ministries to conduct this action in the service of the French in all fields. Beyond a budget, I see this mission as a translation of the Government's renewed ambition to accelerate public transformation. Let me introduce you to the four programs for which I have responsibility and answer some of your questions. These programmes all underline our transformative ambition and show that, far from weakening, this ambition is strengthened – and we are putting the means into it. The first program is that of the public service. As you have seen, its appropriations increase by EUR 5 million. This programme covers one of the most important aspects of my road map: it brings new hope for our young people, for our country – and, as the rapporteur for an opinion pointed out, strengthening equal opportunities in the civil service is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u54	[[Approval on the benches of the LaREM Group]] The public service must once again become a social elevator, this exemplary lever, this model to speed up the policy of equal opportunities for France as a whole. The President of the Republic has announced this: this programme will contribute strongly to the small revolution in access to the major competitions that he calls for. The increase in appropriations of 5 million of this programme will, in particular, make it possible to finance, from 2021 onwards, the doubling of the amount of the allowance for diversity in the civil service, an allowance for pupils in the preparatory classes integrated into the public service competitions, which will increase from 2000 to 4000 euros per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u55	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u56	To go even further, I will present you with an amendment to increase the number of places in these integrated preparatory classes by 1000, in order to increase the number of their pupils from 700 to 1700 at the beginning of 2021. This is a priority to strengthen the diversity of the public service, as well as its attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u58	I will propose further such measures in the coming weeks. Furthermore, as you have pointed out, Mr Alauzet, I wish to commit myself to the supplementary social protection of our public officials. We have initiated a strong dialogue with the social partners and the territorial and hospital employers in order to lay the groundwork for a clear, real and concrete improvement in the protection of public officials in the field of welfare and health. As you know, an order will be presented to the Council of Ministers before the beginning of March 2021. The second programme that I am presenting to you today is the Fund for the Transformation of Public Action. More than ever, our public action must invest in its innovation. More than ever, it must support the projects and good practices of administrations. This fund is the result of a very strong presidential commitment, implemented from the beginning of the quinquennium. To transform public action in a sustainable way, we must invest – not only in tools, but also in projects that change practices in depth. In 2021, this fund will have 50 million commitment authorities to support new projects and 158 million payment appropriations. In October, I chaired the steering committee for this fund and selected 19 successful projects for an investment of 112 million in the fields of ecological transition, social inclusion and economic attractiveness. The third programme concerns the interdepartmental human resources support fund. We must continue to value the careers of those who support our public service. This fund contributes to the co-financing of projects included in departmental transformation plans to support officers in their professional projects. It therefore promotes the development of the skills of the agents, particularly in the event of changes in their profession. As in 2019, it has 50 million commitment and payment authorities. There is, as we know, a real career management issue for our public officials, career management being central to the attractiveness of trades. Finally, the crisis demonstrates this every day, we must continue to innovate and transform our digital action. A programme therefore finances the emergence and development of innovative digital products and services in order to enable the state to accelerate its digital transformation. This programme, created in 2018 by the amendment of the rapporteur-general Laurent Saint-Martin, then Special Rapporteur of the mission "Management of public finances and human resources", meets a real need. It has 10 million commitment and payment authorizations and will be generously complemented by the 500 million recovery plan, of which 200 million to facilitate the most usual 250 steps of the French in their exchanges with the administration – the sending of proofs, for example – especially when they are disabled. The aim is to make these approaches really accessible, in addition to the physical accompaniment already existing, by the France services network in particular. The recovery plan also provides $200 million to equip officers with better working tools and to help them carry out their missions as effectively as possible. Finally, 88 million are earmarked for communities. All these means are essential to the transformation of public action and to the attractiveness of trades. Ladies and gentlemen, if you were to remember only one message from this presentation, it would be that the Government is fully mobilized to support public services in the crisis we are going through. I would like to pay tribute to the men and women who embody our public services on a daily basis, all those public officials who have not been talked about enough for years, to whom we have not always given the consideration we owe them and to whom we now show our full confidence. From the beginning of the quinquennium, in 2017, we had understood their importance and opened the construction site which led to the promulgation of the law of transformation of this public service which is the pride of France. Every agent, regardless of mission, function and place of exercise, deserves our full and complete recognition. Public officials ensure the continuity of public services, a sine qua non for the proper functioning of the life of the nation, to which our fellow citizens are very attached. That is why we must ensure their protection in the health crisis. Since the beginning of September, with the Prime Minister and in connection with the trade union organisations, I have given clear instructions on telework and I follow their application with great attention. All agents who can do so must work five days out of five in telework, but the operating conditions of administrations are designed to protect the health of users and agents when telework is not suitable. The proper functioning of public services is essential for our country in this period of health crisis. It will allow him to be resilient to the virus. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Public action is necessary and depends on the men and women who embody it. In the difficult times we are experiencing, we must accompany them and invest to enable them to work better. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for giving us your confidence in adopting the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u59	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u60	I call the appropriations of the "Public Finance Management" mission, listed in Statement B. The Secretary of State responsible for the social economy, in support of the Government's amendment No. 3022, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u61	It draws the consequences, for the mission "Management of public finances", of the Government's amendment No. 3173 aimed at opening up dematerialised access to the DGFiP's tax repositories to the authorising officers of the local authorities, of the public institutions attached to them and of the public social and medico-social institutions. The operational implementation of this access by application programming interface – application programming interface, API – will require, in 2021, an increase in the appropriations of the programme "Tax and financial management of the State and the local public sector" to the amount of 102000 euros, of which 21000 euros will be for the management of the project and 81000 euros will be for the management of the project. This API should make it possible to simplify and secure the exercise of the revenue title by authorising officers. It will be a source of simplification, but also of improvement for the collection of revenue for the benefit of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u62	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u63	This amendment is an amendment to coordinate with the Government's amendment No. 3173, which we are going to consider shortly. I am of course in favour of allowing the authorising officers of local and regional authorities, public institutions attached to them and public social and medical establishments to have access to the DGFiP's tax repositories. I would point out that the committee did not consider the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u64	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 1734.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u65	Of course, I associate myself with the Minister's vibrant tribute to public service officials, particularly Bercy's, but I am surprised, with such a tribute, that their numbers are being reduced year after year, which suggests that we can always do more with fewer officers. When I made this point in the Committee on Finance, the chairman of the committee and the special rapporteur replied that the deletions were minimal. In fact, they are not only too important every year, but, by adding up, they lead to a haemorrhage of jobs that endangers the work of the Ministry of Transformation and Public Service and that of the DGFiP. Over the past 20 years, 40,000 posts have been abolished in the different Bercy administrations, i.e. one quarter of the staff. However, over the same period, tax evasion has continued to grow – all figures show this. We were told in committee that the number of tax adjustments increased slightly between 2018 and 2019: the amount recovered under the tax control would have increased from €8.7 billion to €11.3 billion – suggesting that the agents of the DGFiP managed to do more with less.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u66	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u67	In reality, this development has been accompanied by a sharp drop in the amount of taxes and penalties charged to fraudsters, which fell to 13.9 billion in 2019, compared to 21.2 billion in 2015, which is almost a half reduction – this is probably why! A recent report by the Senate Finance Committee attributed this decrease to the drop in controls due to the abolition of posts. The situation is no longer bearable. On the one hand, we cannot claim to fight against tax evasion – a real scourge for our country, even more unbearable in this period of social and health crisis where we need revenue – and, on the other hand, to abolish the posts of public officials responsible for tax collection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u68	Thank you for closing, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u69	This amendment, which calls for the transfer of appropriations to programme 156 "Tax and financial management of the State and the local public sector", is an appeal amendment aimed at denouncing the decline in resources in tax services.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u70	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u71	The amendment is based on the information report of our colleagues, Senator Thierry Carcenac and Claude Nougein, entitled "The adequacy of human and material resources to the challenges of tax control: a difficult assessment, a strategy to be clarified", according to which tax control achieved disappointing results between 2015 and 2019. The same report states that fiscal control experienced "a breath of air" in 2019, with $11.3 billion recovered, up from $8.7 billion in 2018. It also stresses that the results achieved validate the strategy adopted in 2017 after the entry into force of the law of 23 October 2018 on the fight against fraud and the law of 10 August 2018 on a state at the service of a trust society, known as the ESSOC law. In this report, our colleagues made ten recommendations, mostly followed – such as those aimed at sanctifying the DGFiP's IT budget or recruiting scarce skills to develop the digital tools that management needs. In any event, they do not propose to recruit indiscriminately, nor to review the current staffing adjustments at the global level. Similarly, the Court of Auditors, in its report entitled "Frauding compulsory levies – Assessing, preventing and repressing", endorses the Government's policy, and in particular the strengthening of the use of mass data, which significantly improves the effectiveness of tax control. I would add that an inter-ministerial anti-fraud committee has been set up for this purpose by the Government. The fight against tax fraud is undoubtedly a priority of the majority and is the subject of a policy and credit commensurate with its ambition. The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u73	In keeping with the statement made by the Special Rapporteur, I would like to point out that the amounts recovered under the tax control increased by 16.3% between 2018 and 2919. In 2019, the Court of Auditors estimated the downward trend between 2013 and 2018 at 22%. This trend was still strong in 2015, but the curve reversed from 2018. I agree with you, Mr. Coquerel, that the positions of auditors have recently changed downwards. However, and I strongly say this, the other professions of the more than 11,000 public servants who contribute to tax control have been particularly strengthened. Programming and control capacity has undergone unprecedented modernization. Similarly, the capacity to prosecute major fraudsters has been strengthened. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u74	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2271 and 2272, which can be presented together. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u75	The first of these two amendments aims to reverse the abolition of 1800 FTEs in 2021 at DGFiP. As a reminder, FIPB is one of the jurisdictions that has suffered the most job cuts in the last ten years, and not only in three years. Nearly 2300 FTEs were abolished in 2018, 2130 in 2019 and 1500 in 2020. For 2021, the Government is again planning a decrease of 1800 FTEs. There's a limit to everything. Even though some figures are improving, others are getting worse – which is reflected in the performance reports. The management of human resources in public services must be guided by the requirement of proximity to citizens. We saw it at the end of 2019, the disappearance of public services in the territories has consequences... On the other hand, I have the greatest difficulty – I think I'm not the only one in this case – in obtaining figures reflecting the territorial distribution of the abolitions of posts in the different administrations. I sought to know exactly what had happened in the last five years in my department, the Puy-de-Dôme, not only in the DGFiP, but also in the police or in the gendarmerie, and I took the trouble, to this end, to create an Excel table with the indication of the years. Now, as usual, I have not been returned this full painting; I was told that it was very complicated to have the territorial distribution of the workforce. However, the least we can do would be to know where the personnel are, what they do and how the numbers in the territories are changing! I therefore appeal to you, Madam Minister: every Member of Parliament should be able to know the evolution of the workforce of the state civil service in his constituency and, beyond that, in his department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u76	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u77	It seems to me that your amendment No. 2271 is rather an appeal amendment, seeking a response from the Government. In the summary presentation, you refer to the reform of the localization of the DGFiP. As you have noted, the decline in the number of FOB staff has been considerable and has been going on for a long time. However, it is slowing down considerably. Between 2012 and 2017, 10,000 full-time equivalents worked – ETPT – were removed from the DGFiP, but these deletions took place well before the reform of its territorial organisation. The figures do not support the argument that there would be a correlation between this reform and the downsizing. In addition, the DGFiP is a pioneering government in public transformation. It seems legitimate that this modernisation should be accompanied by restructuring. I leave it to the Government to answer your question about the territorial distribution of the downsizing and give an unfavorable opinion on the amendment. Amendment No 2272 is somewhat the same for the staff of the DGDDI of point 2271, which I have just mentioned. However, DGMDDI is not in a comparable situation: it received a lot of reinforcements in 2017, 2018 and 2019, as part of the fight against terrorism first, due to Brexit afterwards. Between 2016 and 2019, it benefited from nearly 1,000 net job creations, an increase of almost 6% in its workforce. From now on, DGDDI is also modernising and is, quite logically, evolving in its trades. For the same reasons as before, the Commission issues an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u79	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u80	It is also unfavourable. I shall endeavour to supplement the remarks made by the Special Rapporteur. The planned job cuts for Program 156 "Tax and Financial Management of the State and Local Public Sector" amount to 1800 FTEs. It should be remembered that the DGFiP network is one of the most dense and solid in the state, that it carries out very diverse missions and offers close to 3600 points of contact to its users. The Government has made a commitment to ensure a DGFiP presence in the territories, particularly in France services houses. As I have already indicated, the objective is to reach a grid of 2500 France services houses by 2022. In each canton, there will be at least one France services house; Each departmental advisor will therefore have an interlocutor. We meet the challenge of proximity. In your speech on behalf of your group, Mrs Pires Beaune, you raised, as usual, very specific questions, in particular on the overall regulations and on the CSPE dispute. If the president can, I'll give you some answers. As the Court of Auditors pointed out, the overall regulation is intended to apply to specific, particularly complex tax cases. As you know, as far as possible, the FIPB favours more consensual and faster means of concluding control operations. In fact, it can only gain from this: it reduces the duration of controls, secures recovery and limits litigation, which often involves very high amounts. It is therefore legitimately seeking to resolve such cases before the litigation stage. You are asking for information on these comprehensive regulations. But these are covered, as you know, by tax secrecy. With regard to the CSPE dispute, a decree has recently been issued and the Energy Regulatory Commission has told us that the processing of cases will begin in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u81	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u82	In response to your last comment, Mrs Pires Beaune, I would like to refer more generally to our strategy for the deployment of the State civil service in the territories. As the Prime Minister indicated in his policy statement, our intention is to stabilize the strength of the state civil service in 2021, while deploying posts as systematically as possible in the territories, at the departmental or regional level. In other words, we will no longer create any headquarters positions. This is a very strong commitment: we thus question fifteen years of human resources management in the public service of the State. Indeed, what have we witnessed in the last fifteen years? The number of staff has decreased in the departmental departments of the State, although they have often gone back to the regional or national level. Therefore, the elected representatives legitimately tell us that the state is less present, even gone, and that they have fewer interlocutors. Our ambition is twofold. First, as I said, we want to stabilize the workforce globally in 2021, given the context of crisis. We will ensure that any job creation – for example, in the justice system or in the employment centre – is the result of reorganizations in other services. Second, we want to rethink the geography of the positions, repositioning the decision to the relevant level. The issue is not only about the workforce, but also about responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u84	What decisions can departmental agents, such as cash, make at their level? Everywhere, public officials ask for the same thing: shorter hierarchical chains; a greater capacity for initiative; more room for manoeuvre. This is the Government's ambition and my ambition with regard to the 2021 employment plan. With regard to transparency, Mrs Pires Beaune, I would like to be able to give you the answer you are asking for; I would like us to have a territorialized view of our means, of the decisions that are taken and of our results, department by department, as Jean-René Cazeneuve, chairman of the delegation to local authorities and decentralization wished. In a few weeks we will publish, under the authority of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, a barometer of our results, department by department. You, parliamentarians, will thus have a new tool, essential for the exercise of your monitoring and evaluation mission; You'll know what's going on in every department. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Too often, we hold very general speeches, and the deployment maps of posts are very conceptual. We, the Government, must follow, from the perspective of parliamentarians, that I know that we are vigilant and always precise, our staff, our means and our results. That is the meaning of the mission entrusted to me. That is why this ministry is, I believe, good news for public action and for its follow-up, which you are ensuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u86	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u87	These amendments invite us to ask ourselves about the strategy applied to the Bercy administration for a number of years. With regard to FIPB, the initial idea was that automation of income tax collection, in particular, would allow for a reduction in the number of staff. It was indeed massive. However, there was no real reflection on productivity. At the time, we were told that productivity gains would allow financial officers to unload, thus reducing their numbers. At the same time, officers were asked to improve the quality of service, to be much more accessible, to respond more quickly to the telephone. At the end of the day, these famous productivity gains were partly dissipated. At a time when the French are rather in need of outreach, contact services, and complaining that the administrations have become inaccessible – some are indeed very difficult to reach – this strategy should be reassessed. As for the customs situation, it is of even greater concern to me, at a time when we are seeking to control our borders. Especially since customs officers can, as part of their mission to combat drug trafficking, for example, discover elements relevant to the fight against terrorism. It would therefore be in our interest to go back to the current strategy and to increase the number of staff. With regard to the distribution of staff, the budget documents should show, if not, the number of staff working at headquarters and in the deconcentrated network. As for what is being asked of you, Madam Minister, it is not so much the transparency of the results you have mentioned, but the breakdown of staff by department. At this point, let's face it, it's a bit of a black box. It is not conceivable that what has happened to us, especially in hospitals, will not have a major impact on the way we think of the state. It is time to put an end to a purely accounting logic, to reflect from the point of view of spatial planning and to rehabilitate a unfortunately less and less used concept of public service, which has its nobility, its proximity and its necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u88	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u89	Mr. Aubert...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u90	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u91	Thank you, Madam Minister, the Secretary of State, for the answers you have given me. With regard to the overall regulations, tax secrecy does not apply to the special rapporteurs of the Finance Committee, at least when their action falls within their scope. My request relates exclusively to the field of the mission for which I have the honour to be Special Rapporteur. I therefore repeat it. With regard to the territorial distribution of the workforce, Madam Minister, you have stated that there will be no new positions in the central administration. I therefore assume that the posts that we have authorized to be established in the High Council for Public Finance or the Court of Auditors will be deployed not at headquarters, but in the regions? It's obviously a big deal... I hear what you're saying about the deployment of some FIPB services in the regions. But, on the one hand, there are few job creations; On the other hand, we need to know where the abolitions of posts will take place, how they will take place within the departments. I take the example of my territory: we may have the chance – I wish – to host a DGFIP service, but at the same time another service will be relocated. So it's the net balance that matters. That is why I pay great attention to the creations and, more importantly, the abolition of posts. In addition, it would be good if we had a photograph of the evolution of the workforce over a long period of time. As you rightly pointed out, the abolition of posts did not start in 2017, but well before, especially under Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium. [[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] I maintain my amendments, especially the 2272 on customs, because what Mr Aubert has just said is very right: we must also take account of the financing of terrorism, which is going back to the world. However, in order to find out what illegal transactions are used to finance terrorist actions, staff are needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u92	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u93	I agree with Mrs Pires Beaune's comments on the territorial distribution of staff. I also ask that parliamentarians be more involved and informed about the evolution of posts in the regions. You spoke, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, about improving the efficiency and deployment of France services houses. However, cash in Corsica has been abolished, and it is against these abolitions that officials of the public service, in particular the Regional Directorate of Public Finance, have demonstrated in Corte, in front of the place where the congress of the National Association of Elected Mountainers was meeting – I take witness to its president, who also chairs our work this morning. However, we had obtained a moratorium on this matter – which also concerned the overseas sector – and the previous prefect, Mrs Chevalier, was entirely in agreement with us when we argued that the reforms decided in Paris without consultation could not work on the territory. Without houses of connected services to the public, the reform cannot apply in Corsica. But we are going to close these cash balances, in the midst of the covid crisis, when we need services that act as close as possible to businesses and help our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u94	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u95	Mrs Pires Beaune, I would like to share with you an argument which may seem excessively legal, but nevertheless proves to be solid. You are special rapporteur for the "Reimbursements and Discounts" mission. However, we are at the edges of your perimeter: 113 comprehensive regulations were concluded before tax collection and therefore did not give rise to any rebates; on the other hand, you have access, I believe, to the information on the overall settlements that were made after the recovery of the sums and led to adjustments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u96	On the appropriations of the mission "Management of public finances", I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 2273.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u97	This appeal amendment by my colleague Dominique Potier aims to create a human development agency based on the model of the ADEME – Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – whose reputation is now established and whose role is to produce standards and propose solutions for the ecological transition. This human development agency would be intended to accompany the humanization of the world of work. It would have been useful to dispose of this during the crisis: it could have contributed to the proper deployment of telework, for example, or simply to ensure that the law of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies is, everywhere, well applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u98	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u99	The committee gave an unfavorable opinion. First of all, I do not understand whether this agency would be intended to serve the citizens or rather the administrations. As far as the latter are concerned, the fund for the transformation of public action is already entrusted with a comparable task. Secondly, according to the summary statement of the amendment, the agency would work on issues as varied as poverty, the vigilance of parent and donor companies and the taxonomy of CSR standards – corporate social and environmental responsibility. I do not think it is appropriate to assign such diverse responsibilities to the same agency. But I am aware that this is an appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u101	This appeal amendment deals very directly with concerns on which I am working as Secretary of State for the social, solidarity and responsible economy. In this regard, I would like to commend, despite our fairly frequent differences, the quality and depth of the work undertaken by Dominique Potier in the field of corporate social responsibility for many years. Like the Special Rapporteur, I fear that giving a new agency a mosaic of missions whose objectives would be quite different will not be appropriate. It should be noted that there is already an Observatory of Inequalities. It is, of course, an independent, non-state structure, whereas the agency desired by Mr Potier would be public, but in such a field of action it seems to me that it is even better. This independence contributes to the high visibility and neutrality of its work, which I welcome. With regard to the taxonomy of social and environmental responsibility standards and the ESG criteria – environmental, social and governance – it is at the heart of my roadmap. I had the pleasure of discussing it again during Saturday's sessions with Dominique Potier and Valérie Rabault and I must mention a fundamental divergence between us. If we agree on the objectives, this is not the case with the way to achieving them. At a time when the European Union is preparing to seize the subject, I do not believe that a French-French public agency should be entrusted with the task of producing standards in this field. Indeed, the Union does not plan to act in 2022 or 2025, but in the first quarter of 2021, with the revision of the Non-Financial Information Directive – NFRD. I believe that it is really at this level that we need to work on defining standards, which we will then apply at national level. As for the law on the duty of vigilance of parent and donor companies, which was the result of a proposal by Dominique Potier, I would like to say how important it is and is a source of inspiration for many European countries and beyond. It seems to me rather complete and I would find it more interesting to try to bring this issue to the European level, in the context of the work of the international forum ESS 2021 or with a view to the internationalisation of the ESG criteria. Unfavorable opinion, despite all my respect for Dominique Potier's work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u102	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2715 and 2713, which can be presented together. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u103	Amendment No 2715 by my colleagues Josette Manin and Serge Letchimy concerns the Lamentin air-sea surveillance brigade in Martinique and aims to finance urgent work on the rehabilitation and modernisation of its premises – Mrs Manin has already raised this issue several times in the past. The second amendment, of which Mrs Manin is also the first signatory, is aimed at obtaining the acquisition of surveillance drones for the four Martinic offices of the Caribbean-Guyanese Interregional Customs Directorate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u105	With regard to Amendment No 2715, it seems to me that this call for the strengthening of the capacity of the Lamentin surveillance brigade was heard by the DGDDI. As a result, I will give him an unfavorable opinion in my personal capacity, since it has not been examined by the committee. As far as Amendment No 2713 is concerned, it is intended to receive a reply from the Government on the opportunity to invest in three drones. I will therefore give a wisdom opinion in my personal capacity on this amendment, since it was also not considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u107	In order to respond precisely to Amendment No 2715, please be aware that work has already been done to repair the premises of the Lamentin Airborne Surveillance Brigade. A request from the Caribbean-Guyane Customs Coast Guard for the renewal of the airfield tarmac is under review and we will keep you informed. As for the technical premises of the brigade, maintenance work could also be considered in management in 2021. It also seems important to me to point out that, with regard to the operations already under way, the Government is planning to change the cold group of customs offices in Fort-de-France for an amount of 83,000 euros, as well as arrangements for the judicial investigation service for 65,000 euros. In addition, renovations to the windows and facades of the French Customs Coast Guard service in the West Indies-Guyane area will be carried out, as well as the upgrading of the seamen's customs holding facilities to the standards. Finally, I would add that the search for funding must be initiated under programme 723 "Real Estate Operations and Maintenance of State Buildings" in respect of the replacement of the two cold units – the air treatment plant and the air conditioner – of the Cluny site and in respect of the sealing of the roof of the Coast Guard building in respect of the work to be carried out by the owner. I therefore call for Amendment No 2715 to be withdrawn; If not, the Government's opinion will be unfavourable. With regard to Amendment No 2713, it should be noted that the renewal of the aero-maritime means of customs, entrusted to the National Directorate of the Coast Guard of Customs, will continue in 2021 with the renewal of the naval fleet. This resulted in the purchase of a star for Port-Vendres and the coverage of the commitments concerning the stars of the island of Saint-Martin, Kourou and Dunkirk. As far as the air fleet is concerned, almost half of the appropriations will be allocated for the maintenance of the air fleet in operational condition and for the rental of three helicopters, one of which will be allocated to the Lamentin airfield. At this stage, customs estimates that nearly 900 hours of flight time should be provided for the Department of Martinique and the area of the French departments of the West Indies. In view of the means adopted, the acquisition of drones is not envisaged for the coastguards of the West Indies and there is no need for appropriations from programme 156 for the benefit of programme 302. On Mrs Manin's second amendment too, the Government's opinion would therefore be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u108	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u109	I withdraw Amendment No 2715, and I maintain point 2713. Indeed, the Government's action is about means other than the one called for in this amendment, and it seems to me that the modest amount we are asking for could be accepted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u110	I put to the vote the appropriations of the mission "Management of public finances".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u111	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 104 Number of votes cast 104 Absolute majority 53 For adoption 91 Against 13
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u112	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u113	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u114	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No 2757 on the additional Rule after Rule 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u115	It aims to combat fraud at the ASP – the service and payment agency – which deals in particular with the payment of CAP aid to farmers, but also with the payment of partial activity. But fraud, alas, is everywhere. Companies benefiting from the partial activity are sometimes victims of criminals who pretend to be the ASP and recover fraudulent transfers; However, with 1.1 million employees still protected by partial unemployment in 87,000 companies, it is also essential to combat the fraud of certain companies. It was the willingness of Bercy and the Associate Minister for Public Accounts, Olivier Dussopt, who said that the fight against partial activity fraud would be a priority for the year 2020. The amendment is intended to allow duly authorised ASP officers access to the bank account file maintained by DGFiP, FICOBA, in order to avoid partial activity fraud.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u116	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u117	As we said earlier, one of the priorities of the majority and the Government is to combat fraud. The amendment goes in this direction, as it tends to allow ASP agents duly authorized by the institution's CEO to have access to FICOBA. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u118	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u119	ASP is a very active participant in the Government's economic recovery plan. The provision of banking data proposed by Mrs Motin's amendment will help to prevent the risk of payment to the wrong creditor and thus ensure a better fight against fraud in public aid. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u120	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u121	Why not, but I have a question: what is the increase in the staff of the ASP that you are planning to carry out this new task?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u122	A little answer, maybe?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u123	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 3173.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u124	Its purpose is to open to the authorising officers of local and regional authorities, public institutions attached to them and public social and social institutions the dematerialised access to the tax repositories of the Directorate-General for Public Finance. It responds to the first amendment, No. 3022, submitted by the Government this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u126	As the Secretary of State has just said, it is the counterpart of the amendment that we adopted earlier, which opens up the necessary funds to build the IT interface of DGFIP. Favourable opinion in a personal capacity, as the committee did not consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u127	Amendment No 2143 by Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u128	This is an appeal amendment that deals with the policy of the DAE, the State Procurement Directorate. It seems to me that he is satisfied with the procurement plan entrusted to the DAE on 20 June 2019 for the period 2020-2023 and that it should be even more so in the future iterations of the Green budget, which will include the clarifications requested by the amendment. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u130	Mrs Kerbarh's amendment is a request for a report. As the Special Rapporteur had said, he was in part satisfied, in particular with the plan requested from the State Procurement Directorate. For my part, wisdom advice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u131	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u132	I will vote against this amendment, which is an astonishing illustration of how the Government views the State. It aims to create governance dedicated to the State's social and environmental responsibility policy on sustainable public procurement. So far, the concept of CSR applied only to businesses. Since these – we admit ourselves – are primarily intended to make a profit, it has been felt necessary to fill a gap in this area, even if it is, in my opinion, a relative waste of time. In theory, the state is not in this situation. The State is not a company...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u133	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u134	It guarantees the general interest and the common good. So I don't see what it's worth to give him the notion of CSR. This Government sees the state as a start-up nation or a company, this amendment shows it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u135	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u136	One word to say that a fact-finding mission is under way on the subject. Our colleague Didier Baichère, with the help of Thibaut Guilluy at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration, is responsible for drafting a report on inclusion clauses and other arrangements that can make contracts more responsible, whether they are awarded by companies or by the State. Contrary to what you say, Mr Coquerel, we do not confuse state and start-up nation; We consider the state to be a responsible buyer. We believe that it has a role to play, like businesses, and we will continue to work towards a more social, supportive and responsible economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u137	What a good joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u138	It's not a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u139	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u140	For once I played wisdom and did not object to a request for a report! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] With all due respect for Mr Coquerel, CSR is not a macronist, it is a reality of society. Corporate social responsibility is often referred to in the rest of the world as RSO – you will have learned a new concept – the social responsibility of organisations. It seems to me, but it is only my little opinion as a little Secretary of State that the State has a say in social and environmental responsibility and that it could even develop a form of exemplaryness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u141	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u142	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u143	I invite our colleague Coquerel to look at the United Nations Development Programme, UNDP, which calls for public organisations, state organisations, to put in place a CSR strategy. You say it's not relevant, Mr. Coquerel, but UNDP is promoting this approach. In addition, as an academic, I have worked extensively on CSR issues in public organizations, and I invite you, if you wish, to consult my work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u144	I call the appropriations of the Mission "Transformation and Public Service", entered in Statement B. I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 1713.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u145	It aims to warn of the Government's tendency to gradually replace part of State officials with algorithms, cloud, big data, etc., by symbolically reallocating the appropriations for dematerializing public action to a new fund, entitled "Fund for social, environmental transformation and well-being at work". Indeed, most of the funds of the 349 "Fund for the transformation of public action" programme are dedicated to big data, artificial intelligence, the dematerialization of applications, machine learning for Météo France or the cloud for the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. It seems to us, on the one hand, that the projects chosen are not particularly innovative or ambitious, and, above all, that they lack the human aspect of the relationship between our citizens and their administration, and that they forget the well-being of the work of this administration. We therefore call for the transfer of EUR 44 million from one fund to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u147	Basically, you ask the question of well-being at work. The subject is extremely important, because we spend half of our lives there. When it goes well, it's nice, it's fulfilling, but when it goes wrong, it can be a real mess. I understand your concern all the more as I made it the central point of my report for an opinion on the 2019 Social Security Financing Bill, in which I highlighted the difficulty of assessing well-being at work. We singularly lack indicators, especially when problems are subtle, such as psychological and psychosomatic disorders, difficult to assess. I know a think-tank is under way. I am nevertheless a little surprised by your argument: you oppose digitization and the human, while both go hand in hand. Indeed, digitisation can in particular improve the working conditions of agents and make their work much more enjoyable. As proof of this, indicator 2.1 of programme 349 "Fund for the transformation of public action" to which you propose to withdraw appropriations, which shows that more than 90% of the projects financed by it have had a direct impact on the quality of work of the agents! The reality is therefore not as binary as you indicate. Finally, let me tell you, saying that the Government intends to replace all State officials without delay with algorithms is not very serious! As the committee was unable to examine this amendment, it is in my personal capacity that I give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u148	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u149	I say this from the outset: my opinion will be unfavourable. Mr Coquerel, you have a piecemeal vision of the purpose of the fund for the transformation of public action. I chaired his last selection committee on 6 October; We funded 19 projects. Let me introduce you to their nature, so that you can see that we are already fully dedicated to the social and environmental improvement and well-being at work of the agents and more broadly of the French. For example, a shantytown resorption platform will allow State and territorial public officials and associations to exchange information on this painful subject. Through a hazardous waste tracking tool called Trackwaste, officers will be freed from many paper forms and will be able to devote themselves to missions of greater added value. A soil artificialization monitoring tool will give agents modern tools to better control the use of our country's soils. A digital information system will support the work of staff of the General Labour Agency and occupational integration. The one-stop shop for business formality will include a support platform, therefore with a human-to-human link, so that the self-employed, traders, traders and those who set up their business have appropriate support. In the area of security, a new tool enables a much more modern management of police planning; The agents are very happy about it. The change made by these tools is not superficial. In substance, we agree with you, as we work for the environment, well-being and modernization – which is not about removing agents, but about empowering them to work. All the public officials I meet consider that digitisation has too often stopped at the counters, without being interested in what was going on behind it. That is the ambition of this programme, as well as of the fund provided for in the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u150	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u151	Minister, you cannot claim that this modernization is not accompanied by a reduction in staff. For years, you and your predecessors have continued to justify these reductions by "modernization", "mutualization" "optimization", in many sectors, including health – the result is now seen. You also justify in the same way the plan to abolish 1800 full-time equivalents at the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. Don't deny you're continuing to serve us these speeches! Perhaps asserting that you intend to replace the public service with digital tools is exaggerated – even as we approach it, in some departments. In any case, they are very clearly used to justify the downsizing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u152	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 1773.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u153	This amendment aims to speed up the fight against house arrest, the real pillar of our action in all areas, as I said in my opening remarks. We want the civil service that we appreciate to be able to become an elevator, or a staircase, social again in our country. With 5.5 million agents, we must be exemplary. The profile of senior officials must therefore be diversified. A few figures: in the last promotion of the ENA – National School of Administration – only one student, a little less than 1.5% of the total, has a working father. In 2006, this was 4.7 per cent. On the other hand, today the fathers of 76 per cent of the students in this school work in higher occupations. Either we just shout "Republic, Republic! We either look at this reality in front of us, as a real republican. Rather than sticking to symbols, significant steps must be taken to achieve equality of opportunity in the public service. Some of you have also addressed the issue of attractiveness. This is indeed a challenge, since in 20 years, the number of candidates in public service competitions in general has been divided by two. In this way, we are working to diversify the channels of access to the competition for young talent, from socially disadvantaged backgrounds, or who have grown up far from metropolises and higher education centres. We want to ensure that the principle of equal access to public employment, enshrined in article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, is fully realized. With this amendment, we propose that you take a very simple and effective step quickly: to strengthen the integrated preparatory classes, which are still very little known, to ensure a denser territorial grid. Currently, there are 27 candidates for 700 category A and B competitions. I recently met with all the directors of public service schools in Metz; I have also exchanged with young people who have taken these courses, and I have seen how these change the course of many students. They allow them, after studying law or economics, to pass a competition giving access to the managerial functions of the public service. Our aim is to increase the number of places in these preparatory classes to 2000. This amendment marks a significant first step and aims to increase the number of places for the September 2021 school year by 1000. This policy is carried out in connection with many associations whose work I salute, such as La Cordée or Chemins d'avenirs, which also promote these trades and routes, so that they are better known. In the long run, these preparations for the competitions must become diplomats, allowing all young non-accredited preparers to value these years of training. In addition to this educational support, we have doubled the amount of the allowance for diversity in the civil service, which concerns pupils in these preparatory classes, from 2000 to 4000 euros. This project is a priority for me. If we want to recreate trust between citizens and the State, we must ensure that the high public service is in the image of France today, and that every young person, regardless of where he or she is born and the financial means of his or her parents, has a future in the service of the general interest, which cannot be the privilege of an elite. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I thank you for your support for this amendment, which, far from being symbolic, has real political significance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u155	Thank you to the Government for this initiative. This amendment is fundamental because it establishes in practice the desire to diversify the origins, paths, talents, at the highest level of our society. Minister, as you have stated on several occasions, you are giving yourself the means to meet this ambition, thanks to these credits, which complement the doubling of the amount of the scholarships. Apart from the fact that the amendment will allow an additional 1,000 young people to access these preparatory classes, I would point out that it provides EUR 1 million for advertising on the device. Indeed, it is not enough to open places – it is sometimes understood that some are not occupied – since exclusion also applies to communication and information. It is therefore important to spend EUR 1 million to promote this scheme. I have a very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u156	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 2097.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u157	The current forced confinement leads everyone to re-evaluate the need for human, physical relations, for the quality of work, but also for social relations. For many years, the quality of reception in railway installations, and in particular railway stations, has been deteriorating, as a result of the development of digital technology. If this could constitute progress, aid, we agree, it is often used, unfortunately, to replace agents. The law for a new railway pact provides, inter alia, for further downsizing, which could have catastrophic effects on the working conditions of employees and on relations with users. The aim of this amendment is therefore to finance the rehumanisation of our stations and the reduction of the inequalities caused by the digital divide, thanks to the maintenance of reception and physical ticket offices. This is obviously an appeal amendment, since we know that the amounts proposed will not be sufficient. We also hope that the Government, if it recognizes the validity of this amendment, will be willing to lift the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u158	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u159	You are opposed to the automation and closure of railway stations. You will recognize that this amendment would be more in its place in the debate on the following mission "Ecology, development and sustainable mobility", than in this one; But finally, I understood that he was on call. It is not possible for us to reduce the appropriations for the 352 "Digital Innovation and Transformation" programme by EUR 5 million, even though I understood that this one was not very useful to you, because it was mainly human. It also requires digitisation devices, because they improve the quality of life at work and the well-being of employees, and your amendment would amputate them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u160	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u161	For us, digital is not an end in itself, but a means of diversifying access to public service. The windows remain modernised by the France services network of houses and buses; The phone continues to exist. The new devices must be – I am extremely attached to them – truly digital and accessible. Let us say quite frankly, among the 250 online approaches that we are focusing our digitization efforts on, it is not acceptable for only 12% to be accessible to people with disabilities. So I'm investing to fix it. It is also not acceptable for the complexity of certain approaches to be such that the user satisfaction rate does not exceed 30 per cent. You propose to withdraw EUR 5 million from programme 352. This would be a shame, because it finances digital tools such as Helpers Connect, which helps social workers to carry out the steps for the beneficiaries of aid, by providing them with legal certainty, or DomiFa, a home-based service allowing those who do not have a stable home to access public services. I am also thinking of the inclusion platform, at the heart of Olivia Grégoire's priorities, which links employers offering jobs in social integration, job seekers and social workers. We design all these devices with the importance of the human being in mind. I am absolutely convinced that digital accessibility is essential. As a minister, I do digital, but real, and accessible to all. It is not a question of replacing everything with a computer, which, you are right to say, would not meet the expectations of the French. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM groups]] They want proximity, efficiency and simplicity. That is the objective of this programme, and it would therefore be a shame to withdraw EUR 5 million. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u162	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u163	As I said earlier, we want the Government to raise the pledge, even though I understand that you are not going to do so. You are well aware that when Members ask for an increase in the appropriations for one programme, they are obliged to ask for a reduction in those for another programme. I therefore took the precaution to point out that if we proposed a transfer of appropriations from programme 352, it was not because the programme would lack interest, but because of the rules on the financial admissibility of the amendments. Then we are not in the same logic. I am convinced that we will come back from this moment in history when, in the name of digital technology, we dehumanize public reception. Station staff cannot be limited to mall employees and security officers. Many of the users who frequent them, and not only in generations less familiar with digital technology, need information, and the machine cannot always provide an answer. It is a profound mistake to imagine that digital can replace agents, and that applies to all government services. The fact, for example, of having to fill out application forms in the prefecture, without obtaining an answer and without ever being able to contact an agent, induces between citizens and the State a form of considerably degraded relationship. We reject this development of social relations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u164	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 1331.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u165	We propose, on behalf of Philippe Dunoyer and our ultramarine colleagues in the IDU-I Group, to correct an injustice. In fact, a decree of 20 December 2001 provides that a specific installation premium is awarded to officials and overseas magistrates who receive a first assignment in metropolitan France. This allowance is not neutral, since it represents 12 months of basic index salary and allows these staff members to cover their removal and installation costs and the cost of airfares, which are often very expensive. However, if this decree has been amended to allow our friends in Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon to be integrated into it, it has not been amended for Polynesia or for New Caledonia, thus creating a certain break in territorial equality. The Minister of Defence is committed to changing that for our military, so it would be good if this change were valid for all public servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u167	I appreciate your request to encourage public officials, either during their first assignment or during their careers, to settle in New Caledonia or French Polynesia, through the granting of certain benefits. However, I am not sure that it is appropriate to withdraw EUR 1.5 million from the Digital Innovation and Transformation programme, although I know that you will explain to me, like Mr Coquerel, that you have no choice. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to use the appropriations of the 351 programme, which will finance in 2021, in the same spirit, the retention bonus for public officials in Seine-Saint-Denis. The committee has not considered this amendment, but I personally ask for it to be withdrawn or, failing that, will issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u168	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u169	Legally, the extension of this premium falls within the scope of the decree and not the law. In substance, it does not seem relevant to me to deal with the case of Polynesia and New Caledonia, without considering more broadly the effectiveness of this regime and its interest in the development of mobility between the metropolis and the overseas territories – in which the attractiveness of the posts must be strengthened. In addition, the cost you are proposing for this measure is probably underestimated. Finally, this difference in treatment is historically explained by the fact that Polynesia and New Caledonia offered more employment opportunities locally, due to the existence of specific public functions. This subject – which I do not diminish at all – therefore seems to me to require prior work of expertise and instruction, if necessary of consultation. I am ready to encrypt and objective the real needs with the Minister for Overseas Affairs. I would also point out that the Order in Council of July 2, 2020, in particular, introduced the enhanced leave scheme for public servants from Pacific communities, which was not provided for in the 1978 Order. For all these reasons, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u170	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u171	We are talking about a 2001 decree, which justifies the continuation of the amendment. As for the redeployment of appropriations, Mr. Special Rapporteur, we cannot do otherwise, but nothing prevents the Government from proceeding from another programme. In any event, we must stop saying that our amendments will be the subject of further discussion. In this case, this Order is 19 years old, and it is a little late to promise to enter into discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u172	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 2094.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u173	This amendment builds on the conclusions of the Citizen's Climate Convention, which reached 98 per cent for a moratorium on 5G, stressing that "we [should] be able to question, individually and collectively, our consumption patterns and needs." That makes the link with the previous topic... While Thierry Breton is already calling for 6G and at a time when global warming and environmental degradation pose more than ever the question of accelerating and multiplying our connections, with what this implies in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, citizens must be able to comment on the issue of 5G, if only because it is a subject that goes through many of our political groups. We therefore propose, following the model of the National Ethics Advisory Committee, the establishment of a National Digital Committee, whose mission is to produce objective scientific information and analysis of technological and digital transformations. I believe that 5G should then be the subject of a referendum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u175	You are calling for the creation of a National Digital Committee, but there are already three consultative bodies that can organize the debate you want: the National Pilot Digital Ethics Committee, the National Digital Council and the National Public Debate Commission. This is therefore an unfavorable opinion in a personal capacity, since the committee did not consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u176	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u177	This amendment is satisfactory, since the National Digital Council, established in 2011 and comprising ten representatives of civil society, has the task of studying digital issues and in particular the challenges and prospects of the digital transition of society, the economy, public action organisations and the territories. So your idea is excellent, and besides, it has taken shape for nine years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u178	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 223.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u179	You want to reduce government spending and simplify public action; Well this amendment by Fabrice Brun aims to make the fight against the commissions or consultative bodies unproven effectiveness – which General de Gaulle, whose disappearance we are commemorating today, called the "Theodule Committees" – the subject of a debate in Parliament. A selective sorting began in 2011, which has already led to the abolition of 48 of these committees, usually established by regulation. This movement should be continued, by identifying those bodies with a low level of activity, i.e. having not held any meetings in the past year or years, duplicating another body or carrying out limited tasks that may otherwise be carried out. For example, it would already be possible to delete: the National Emergency Observatory – two meetings since 2016; the working group on improving the control and organisation of police databases – no meetings since 2016; the Interministerial Commission for Spatial Data – five members and three meetings between 2016 and 2018, at a cumulative cost of EUR 58990; the National Council for Spatial Planning and Development – no meetings since 2016; the National Council of Cities – seven meetings, but only in 2018; the Commission de proposition aux offices vacants d'avocat au Conseil d'État et à la Cour de cassation – a meeting between 2016 and 2018; National Commission for the Elimination of Anti-Personnel Mines – two meetings in 2018; the Committee of Experts on Adaptive Management – no meeting since 2016; the toll-free conciliation commission – no meeting since 2016. After finding that there are no clinical signs of life, I suggest you draw the consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u181	I must admit that I have a great deal of sympathy for your amendment because there are no small savings, and indeed the usefulness of some of these Theodule committees is questionable. I would therefore welcome concrete proposals which Parliament can deal with directly, but I am opposed to a request for a report. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u183	There is a yellow budget entitled "List of committees and consultative or deliberative bodies placed directly with the Prime Minister or ministers": the report you are requesting exists, and your amendment is therefore satisfactory. [[Bruno Duvergé applauds]] In addition, I defended before you a few weeks ago the law on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as the ASAP law. It endorsed the systematic removal of 22% of the said Theodule committees, according to the criteria you propose. I am therefore surprised that your friends in the Chamber abstained or even voted against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u184	It's a mess!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u185	Unrelenting demonstration of your contradictions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u186	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] So there is something a little provoking in your approach today, which will not stop me from willingly working with your support to continue in this process – beyond the eighty-six committees that we have already abolished since the beginning of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u187	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u188	[[Rites and exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Madam Minister, you did not need our support for the removal of these 20% commissions; On the other hand, of the 80%, you can count on our support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u189	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u190	It is in the most difficult moments that the opposition knows how to be at the meeting of the reform. On the other hand, if we had asked directly for the removal of these bodies, we would have been told that our selection criteria were rude and that we had to look at the matter more closely – hence the idea of requesting a report. But let's move on, if you agree! Propose a sub-amendment, start work on the remaining 80%, we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u191	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 2096.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u192	In the early days of the crisis, the President of the Republic praised "all the women and men who are on the second line and who allow our caregivers to care, and the country to continue to live. It is women and men who transport, who shelter, who troubleshoot, who clean, who repair. These women and men who transport, who house, who clean – I could add other jobs of this type – often work in subcontracting. This scheme allows companies to circumvent social laws or constraints imposed by certain business contracts. Companies are not the only ones who use too much subcontracting: for the same reasons as they do, public administrations and institutions, including the National Assembly, are massively outsourcing maintenance and household services. Like me, you see people cleaning your offices in the morning before Members arrive. These savings for the State are paid for by women and men in the household by a more precarious status, by very long working hours, by occupational isolation and by the loss of the benefits enjoyed by other actors in the administrations. I do not see why these tasks would be outsourced and would not receive the same recognition as those of other public officials. The amendment calls for the Government to submit a report on the challenges for public finances of outsourcing maintenance and household services and on the scenarios of the financial trajectory of aligning the social conditions of subcontracted employees with those of internal staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u194	You raise a real question: that of subcontracting – and, worse, that of cascade subcontracting. The stacking of subcontracting contracts seriously degrades working conditions, since each intermediary takes a margin. I am not convinced of the fact that a few days ago your colleague Mathilde Panot exclaimed in the Chamber: "Another report! » The subject is known, so the question is to improve the situation, not to order a report. The Ministry of Transformation and Public Service and all State departments are aware of the problem and are committed to improving and clarifying the clauses in public procurement with respect, of course, for labour law. In order to improve working conditions, they are studying, for example, the possibility of performing these tasks during the day in order to avoid staggered working hours which, with part-time work, are experienced by maintenance workers. The margins for progress are great. As a report is not useful, I personally give an unfavorable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u196	We pay great attention to the question you raise. Since 2008, we have committed ourselves to taking into account social responsibility – I know you don't like the term – for the cleanliness services of public sites. First of all, we are working on the day on a continuous basis – a subject on which François Ruffin has been very active – to avoid staggered hours. Since 2013, we have been studying the feasibility of daytime work for all sites and contracts and we are focusing on shared markets that integrate the requirement of daytime work. Our goal is for 60% of public sites to be cleaned during the day. In terms of working conditions, we have strengthened our hygiene training requirements, developed strengthened prevention plans, tried to increase personal protective equipment for staff, and used eco-labelled cleaning products whose safety is recognized. More broadly, I would like, with the support of Olivia Gregoire, who carries out with great resolution a policy of responsible purchasing, to include in the contracts a clause prohibiting staggered hours, except for certain sites whose constraints are very special. We will work together on this issue, which involves issues of humanization and protection of personal life. I do not want an umpteenth report; I want to act and inform you of the practical and concrete decisions that we will make. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u197	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u198	The IDU and independent group supports this amendment, which follows on from the discussion we had about ten days ago on housekeepers and maintenance workers in the National Assembly, on the basis of an amendment tabled by François Ruffin to take into account the specific nature of the work of these people, who rise at four o'clock in the morning to take public transport, so that the premises are clean when we arrive to start our work between seven and a half and eight o'clock. It would be good if the public sphere were interested not in corporate social responsibility, Madam Minister, but in corporate social responsibility, or, as Olivia Gregoire said, in the social responsibility of organizations. A report would give us a comprehensive view of the proposals that public authorities at all levels could make in this area. We therefore support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u199	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u200	Thank you, Mr. Benoit, for your support. I also note that the Special Rapporteur is concerned about the problem – that is always the case. Minister, the issue is not to frame as much as possible a practice, whether desired or not, to circumvent the rules of the public service, particularly those relating to the working conditions of public service and public service personnel. This is the aim of subcontracting, both in the administration and in the enterprises. To try to frame him is to recognize that it should not be used. If you proposed an amendment to internalize these services in ministries and public institutions, I would withdraw my amendment requesting a report. It would go very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u201	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 2161.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u202	It is a request for a report, but this amendment gives me the opportunity, above all, to return, without a polemic mind, to the day of failure. Minister, I do not understand that you are applying the day of deficiency during the second confinement. During the first confinement, we were the first to denounce, in a question to the Government, the injustice of maintaining the day of default for civil servants. You had finished, with delay, by deleting it: this measure is correct, because public officials are penalized for their first day of stopping illness, whereas they are not if they are in contact with a person tested positive for covid-19. It's ubiquitous! Minister, what will be your position on the day of default during the second confinement?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u204	There is a need to recognize consistency in your amendment: the Act of 23 March 2020 to deal with the covid-19 epidemic has suspended the application of the Public Service waiting period for all sick leave, regardless of the cause and regardless of the status of the public official. The extension of the state of emergency leads you, logically, to ask for a comparable measure for the period we are living in. However, I would like to draw your attention to two difficulties. The suspension of the waiting period concerned the public and the private sector, and applied to all diseases. In March, we made a necessary decision in the urgency, which was broad and inclusive. But the indefinite extension of a waiting period for all diseases, while the measure, including in your amendment, is intended for people with covid-19, seems disproportionate. The other difficulty is the obligation to include the public and the private. Personally, I am very much in favour of your proposal. I call on the Government to move forward quickly, because we hope that the epidemic will end quickly and that, even if these issues require reflection, the amendment should not be overturned in two months' time. Decisions must be made now or not. The request for a report is satisfied, so I have an unfavorable opinion on the amendment, even if you point to a real subject. You can find the items you are asking for in the AFPB Annual Report.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u206	I exchange, at a weekly or bimonthly rate, with trade union organisations on the day of failure. There was an inter-ministerial debate on the subject, since, as the Special Rapporteur had said, it was necessary to understand the issues involved in the decision. In March, because confinement was widespread and because we lacked protective tools and equipment, we took this measure to suspend the waiting period for private employees and public officials for all diseases. Today, the parameters of the decision go far beyond my ministry. I hear requests for clarification from public officials for sick leave taken before a test and requests for clarification from public officials after a positive test at Covid-19. We work with the health insurance, without having so far found the martingale, on how to suspend the waiting period for the patients of the covid-19. The difficulty is that such a measure would break with the medical secret, to which you are all attached. Discontinuation prior to testing is taken as a health precaution after contact with a positive person in order to prevent the circulation of the disease. Stopping after a positive test is taken because the disease is there. However, the essential principle that the employer does not know the disease that justifies the judgment must be defended. We need, as Olivier Véran reminded us this weekend, a democratic debate on the conditions and consequences of isolation and on medical secrecy, which we hold, until now, as intangible. This epidemic raises new questions. My answer is not aimed at kicking at all and my position is not dogmatic on this subject. We have many discussions among ministers, including with Elizabeth Borne. In the private sector, the collective maturation of the subject is very different from that of the public sector. We need to be very vigilant. With regard to the recognition of occupational disease that you mentioned in your opening remarks, the decree provides that the responsibility for the disease is automatic for certain healthcare workers. It is therefore normal for you to wait for clarification for other staff. We establish management lines so that, in the public service, reform commissions can define the accountability of this disease, as an occupational disease, for certain officers, especially those who worked during the spring confinement. I am very committed to the early enactment of the rules, and they will be before the end of November. This is important for the recognition of agents, who, both private and public, have made a strong commitment to their work during confinement and who have sometimes fallen ill, because they are exposed to the virus because of our lack of knowledge about its transmission. We are going to move forward on this and we will, by the end of the month, disseminate the clarifications expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u207	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u208	I hear all these arguments, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you can be contaminated at your workplace, whether you are a public servant or not. In the private sector, the day of waiting is very few people, because, fortunately, many employers do not apply the day of waiting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u209	Because they have foresight contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u210	They are right to do so! Do you have an assessment of the suspension of the waiting period during the first confinement? The financial cost is completely absorbed by the State and local authorities. I hear your argument about medical secrecy and I propose, as was the case in the first confinement, that the day of failure does not apply in periods of confinement, regardless of the illness justifying the arrest, covid -19 or not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u211	I call the appropriations of the Mission "Unallocated appropriations", entered in statement B.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u212	I call the appropriations of the mission "Social and Pension Plans", listed in state B. Amendment No 2159 by Xavier Paluszkiewicz is being defended. Mr Alexandre Holroyd, alternate Mr Olivier Damaisin, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u213	Indeed, I am, in a way, the hologram of the Special Rapporteur, Mr Olivier Damaisin, who has been retained for compelling reasons. Thus, all my personal opinions will in fact be his. In this case, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u214	[[Smile]] I will therefore call you Mr Hologrammic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u215	What a talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u217	The views of the Government, on the other hand, will also be somewhat mine, by construction. On Amendment No 2159, it will be a request for withdrawal, if not an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u218	I call Mrs Zannier to support Amendment No. 2067.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u219	He cares about me, because he's about the old miners. After the Second World War, entire generations of miners from all walks of life extracted coal at the risk of their lives and health. Their work has enabled the industrial recovery of France. I came from Lorraine's coal pond, daughter and granddaughter of underground miners. I am therefore attentive to the appropriations allocated to them, in particular those relating to health and social action. I must quickly enter into the complexity of a French-language system. The National Agency for the Guarantee of the Rights of Minors – ANGDM – is a public administrative institution, established in 2004 after the closure of the last coal mine in Moselle. Originally, it dealt only with housing and heating benefits. Since 2012, in partnership with the Caisse autonome nationale de sécurité sociale dans les mines – CANSSM, it has also managed the funds for health and social action, intended to cover certain health-related costs, such as the monitoring of elderly people and their keeping at home. The projects linked to this action bring excellent results and in particular enable the home care of many isolated people, as is advocated in the reports on the elderly. However, the budget for health and social action is in constant decline. I am aware that demographic changes fully justify this development: the decline in the number of pensioners is estimated at about 5% per year. However, credits were reduced by 10% in 2017, putting the ANGDM's cash flow at risk and forcing it to significantly reduce benefits. The aim of this amendment is to restore the situation, by a single abundance of €3 million of action 01 "Payments to the special pension fund of the National Social Security Fund for Mines" of programme 195 "Mining, SEITA and miscellaneous pension schemes".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u221	It is unfavourable, for three reasons. First of all, I am not sure that the amendment that you are defending is going well towards the objective that you are formulating. The funds dedicated to health and social action are limited and set out in the Objective and Management Agreement – COG – between the State and pension funds. Thus, the increase in appropriations under programme 195 will not mechanically translate into an increase in appropriations for health and social measures. Secondly, as you mentioned, the health and social expenditures within the mission's scope reflect the relatively significant decrease in the number of beneficiaries, by 4.1 per cent per year. Finally, with regard to old-age and sickness social security benefits for those insured under the mining scheme, they are broadly equal in the 2020 budget to the level they had in the 2015 budget. Thus, the average basket of extralegal benefits allocated to beneficiaries has steadily increased over this period: the average amount has increased by 20% since 2011.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u223	I am well aware of Mrs Zannier's commitment and investment in mining; However, the opinion will be unfavourable. In addition to the arguments put forward by the Special Rapporteur, the increase in the budget for health and social action that you propose is in the field of social security, so your amendment is more part of the draft law on the financing of social security. You mentioned it, but I repeat that, according to our data, the annual decrease of about 5% in staffing is strictly in line with the demographic decline in the population of mine pensioners. Thus, the means granted appear to cover the needs of the nationals of the mining regime under good conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u224	Mrs Hélène Zannier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u225	I maintain the amendment. I am well aware of the reality of the demographic decline, which justifies a 5% reduction in appropriations per year. It is true that a lot of needs are being met. However, the amendment aims to restore benefits that have been abolished, while they were very useful: I am talking about incontinence, as well as many other issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u226	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u227	I support Mrs Zannier's objective. I understand that the amendment may not be technically perfect, in particular because it would fall under the responsibility of the PLFSS. Last year I myself defended the amendments which were in the same direction. Of course, and we regret it, the population of underage pensioners is shrinking, but their needs are increasing. In concrete terms, someone who needs four hours of home help will need more hours if their health situation deteriorates. However, the reduction in social assistance appropriations for these categories of population has led to a reduction in benefits. Assistance plans are declining, even though people have more needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u228	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 3023, which contains an additional article after Rule 56, and which is the subject of a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u229	I propose to put an end to the derogation enjoyed by certain personalities and officials, appointed here and there in agencies and administrative authorities independent of the State, or even in the Constitutional Council, who can accumulate their pensions and allowances for their duties. In the case of civil servants, there is a specific framework. In the case of cumulative employment-retirement, the sum of earnings is divided by three and 50% of the guaranteed minimum is added; the total determines an amount of remuneration that they can accumulate with their pensions. I will give the example of the First President of the Court of Auditors. In fact, I wrote to Mr Moscovici this summer: he kindly replied that he was appointed when he was retired, and that he therefore naturally accumulated his first president's allowance with his retirement as a Member of the European Parliament, a Member of the European Parliament and a Regional Councillor. The sums concerned may exceed 10000, 20000, 30000 euros, even around 40000 euros. Our fellow citizens can no longer accept it, nor can Members. We have put order in our home and in our pension plan, which we have aligned with the general system. This amendment is therefore intended to put an end to this derogation. The Government might object that an organic law would be necessary for such a reform, as it concerns the nine members of the Constitutional Council. In order to remove this obstacle, my colleague Michel Zumkeller will defend a sub-amendment that removes the latter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u230	I call Mr Michel Zumkeller to support sub-amendment No. 3537.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u231	In order to ensure that Thierry Benoit's excellent amendment is not rejected on the legal grounds that a similar measure would involve an organic law, this sub-amendment aims to remove the reference to the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u233	The Special Rapporteur, Mr Damaisin, did not consider the sub-amendment. Since this is a technical question, I take the liberty of giving him a very personal opinion. Indeed, it is necessary for the amendment to be viable. As for the amendment, the Special Rapporteur is in favour of it. Our Assembly adopted a similar arrangement when it considered the bill establishing a universal pension system; A broad consensus had emerged on the subject. In substance, as you said, this is the example of the political and legal elites; The question is how to get closer to the common law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u235	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u236	With regard to Amendment No 3023 by Mr Benoit, I understand the objective. The Government shares your concern for transparency and exemplaryness for the highest institutions in this country and their members. However, as you know, the rules on remuneration and cumulation of employment and retirement for members of the Constitutional Council fall within the scope of the Ordinance of 7 November 1958 on the Organic Law on the Constitutional Council. Thus, only an organic text is likely to change them. On the merits, in the sense of transparency and exemplaryness that you call for, the Public Service Transformation Act of 6 August 2019 introduced, with the same aim, a principle of capping the benefits received by members of the independent administrative authorities and other public authorities, due to the amount of pensions they otherwise receive. Article 4 of the draft organic law on the universal pension system introduced the same rule for members of the Constitutional Council. This is the best way to address your concern. The Government's opinion was therefore unfavourable. With regard to Mr Zumkeller's sub-amendment, I welcome your reactivity; I repeat that the answer lies in our view in a crunching of public pensions rather than in an alignment with the common system. In all cases, the subject is not covered by the PLF, but by a pension law. Finally, even if you were to adopt this sub-amendment, Amendment No 3023 would not be operational, because of an editorial problem: the II should also be amended. I therefore also express an opinion against sub-amendment No 3537.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u237	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u238	What I want is alignment with the general system. Indeed, all the clogging that you can imagine – this is not for you personally, Madam Secretary of State – is intended only to confuse both the Members we are and our fellow citizens. In a December 2017 report, the Court of Auditors noted the lack of a clear and cross-cutting framework defining the remuneration of the persons concerned and addressing the issue of pensions. As we celebrate today the fiftieth anniversary of the death of General de Gaulle, I have a thought for Alain Juppé who was appointed to the Constitutional Council. Perhaps he did not opt for cumulation, because the law allows both cumulation and non-cumulation. Anyway, during the movement of the yellow vests, we talked about it on the roundabouts with the French. At the risk of being called a demagogue and a populist, I say this firmly: we can no longer stand the current situation, especially since, as Members, we have put order in our house. We need to know how many senior officials are affected by cumulations, how they are appointed, how much they perceive and how exactly cumulation-retirement is framed. I would point out that, for the common Frenchman, employees of both the public and private sectors, the rules are clear and precise, and that the right to cumulation is very limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u240	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u241	Initially, I did not wish to intervene on the amendment, but it deals with a subject which is a source of concern to the French, first because it is opaque, then because the figures circulating in terms of allowances or pensions allocated to certain members of the Constitutional Council, State agencies or independent administrative and public authorities can shock, when compared to the income received by the French. We must therefore try to bring clarity, without falling into the hunt for senior officials, or pretending that we would live much better if we put everyone in water and dry bread. There is too much tendency to egalitarianize – even if Mr.Benoit has just mentioned General de Gaulle who, when he left power, refused to receive any income other than his retirement as a general, proof that times have changed. He gave up his remuneration as a member of the Constitutional Council and, I believe, retired as President of the Republic. You have to believe it's feasible. The subject does not concern the entire civil service, in which these issues are settled, but it is true that in some independent administrative authorities it would be interesting to know what legal basis is referred to in order not to limit the allowances. When I asked an administrative authority about this, it became apparent that there was no basis for determining the amount of remuneration, which was decided in the greatest opacity. The solution is not necessarily transparency, but rather clarity: the rules must be fair, known in advance and the criteria set out must be objective. In the long run, all work must result in the payment of a pension, but perhaps a capping system must be introduced, bearing in mind that such a measure cannot be retroactive. These positions must remain attractive, but there must be no disproportion between what these senior officials earn and the French – or politicians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u242	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u243	I support the amendment and the sub-amendment, which is purely technical, since it is only intended to make the amendment operational. Like some of you, I belong to the Observatoire de l'éthique publique, created two years ago. We are working on this. As the capping remains a derogatory system, I think it is better to seek alignment with the common law, a system that is more understandable to all French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u244	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u245	Mr Benoit, we probably have this discussion for the tenth time. We mentioned the problem when considering your bill to prohibit the cumulation of a retirement pension and activity allowance for persons appointed to the Constitutional Council and State agencies. We find him every year during the budget, when we examine the appropriations for this mission. We went into it very seriously when we considered the draft organic pension reform law, since it was the right vehicle for such a measure. As the Secretary of State recalled, we also considered it by voting on the law of transformation of public life of 6 August 2019, article 38 of which meets your wishes. The parliamentarians have been cleaning up at home, you say, they have adopted measures that you wish to extend to other schemes. We have decided to apply to the presidents of independent administrative authorities and to the members of the Constitutional Council the rules that we have set ourselves. That is the equality of treatment that is finally guaranteed. If you want to go much further so that parliamentarians, presidents of independent authorities, civil servants and senior civil servants are subject to the same regime as all French citizens, you are in favour of our universal pension scheme. I am delighted, and I will invite you to vote soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u246	I supported him from A to Z! And I was sufficiently present in the debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u247	I didn't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u248	Mrs Motin, a subject can be addressed several times. That is one of the normal things in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u249	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u250	My point of order is based on Rule 48. Mr Damaisin, the Special Rapporteur, who cannot be present with us, called on me yesterday, Sunday, to quote him in this discussion, stating that he supports the amendment, as the alternate rapporteur has indicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u251	I call Mr Aleksandr Holroyd, Deputy Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u252	I recalled that I was replacing Mr Damaisin when we discussed the examination of the Mission's appropriations and I indicated his position on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u253	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor to support Amendment No. 788.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u254	This amendment, of which Mrs Jacqueline Dubois is the first signatory, aims, in the name of equality, to extend the measures granted to heads of agricultural holdings to their spouses. The law of 3 July 2020 to ensure the revalorisation of agricultural retirement pensions in mainland France and overseas, adopted unanimously, is incomplete with regard to insured persons who have had only a status of collaborating spouse or family support during their entire career. Only farm managers will benefit from the pension adjustment of 85% of the SMIC. We would therefore like to request the Government to submit a report to assess the cost of gradually aligning the pension increase for working spouses of farmers, of valuing the number of compulsory supplementary pension points for working spouses of farmers, and of extending the minimum pension guarantee to 85 per cent of the SMIC for all working spouses and family workers. I know the Special Rapporteur's commitment to this cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u255	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u256	Madam Member, thank you for this amendment. I think I should remind you of a few figures. The Directorate for Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES) points out that, among all self-employed pensioners, those in the agricultural sector receive the lowest pension. They receive an average of 713 euros, with an average of 1282 euros. I would add that the situation of women is particularly difficult, since they receive an average of EUR 572. However, the law of 3 July 2020, unanimously passed in this Chamber, which ensures the revalorisation of agricultural pensions in mainland France and overseas, has left aside the spouses of the farmers. The amendment seeks to request a report on three key points of this fundamental issue for farmers and farmers. The Special Rapporteur is very supportive of this. Personally, I have the same opinion. I hope that the amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u257	I hope so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u258	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u259	As a Member of Parliament, I was already very sensitive to the subject. You have just recalled that the pensions of women farmers are much lower than those of their husbands. I am told that this difficult to understand difference is due to their lowest contribution level, which is flat-rate and not based on professional income. In addition, our careers, women, are often incomplete. On the other hand, the co-workers only contribute to proportional retirement since 1999. In 2006, they were offered the opportunity to choose between this status and that of an employee or agricultural operator. It was not until 2011 that their compulsory membership in the supplementary pension scheme was introduced. I have been personally involved in this matter during the examination of the law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE law. Should we call him back? We unanimously voted on the obligation to choose a status for the co-workers. Otherwise, the employee spouse will be applied. The situation of the co-workers is not satisfactory. At this very moment, Mr Turquois and Mr Causse are preparing a report on small pensions, which will enable proposals to be made quickly with a view to strengthening the pension rights of women who have worked on farms. It is when we resume the reform of pensions that we will examine the possibility of improving the situation of women who have had the status of collaborating spouse or family support, after further consultation with the social partners. Mrs Dubois' objective is also that of the Government, but, I repeat, we await the aforementioned parliamentary report before making proposals for pension reform. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment, even if I wish to move the lines on this major subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u260	I call the appropriations of the trust account "Management of the State's real estate assets", entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u261	I call the appropriations of the special-purpose account "pensions", entered in statement D.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u262	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 3012 on the additional rule after Rule 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u263	The amendment aims to bring national law into line with that of the European Union by abolishing the French pension capping mechanism provided for in the case of civil servants, magistrates and military personnel seconded to a foreign State or an international organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u264	I call Mr Euzet to support Amendment No. 2134.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u265	This amendment tabled by Mr Gassilloud for the Group of the European People's Party points to a singularity of our positive right to the situation of reservist soldiers accepting operational missions. It is known that the legal regime which then applies depends on the duration of the mission: if it is less than 30 days, they receive their pension and are paid for the mission without the latter giving them additional rights; If it exceeds 30 days, they will open up additional pension entitlements but do not receive their pension, which encourages them to accept missions of less than 30 days and to refuse others, because they do not know when they will finally be paid. The purpose of this amendment is to request the Government to submit a report on this issue, in order to study the standardization of these two regimes, either by increasing the gauge to 90 days or by granting rights to all or by taking these two measures in a concomitant manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u267	There are two situations: the first when the mission lasts less than 30 days, and the second when it exceeds that period. In the second case, the possibility of recalculating the pension at the end of the mobilisation period does not diminish the attractiveness of the mission; On the contrary, it improves it. In the current situation, the reservist is in fact still winning: either he accumulates his pension and his reservist trade, or his pension is recalculated upwards. The abolition of article L. 80 of the Civil and Military Superannuation Code would lead to the elimination of the possibility of recalculating reservists' pensions after mobilizations of more than 30 days, which would be unfavourable to them. Since the deletion of this article is not desirable for reservists, I do not think it is necessary to quantify its budgetary impact. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u268	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u269	I would just like to point out, in addition to the rapporteur's perfectly clear arguments, that the attractiveness of the reserve is a constant concern for us, and even more so in the current times. Removing the provisions of article L. 80 of the Civil and Military Pensions Code would run counter to the attractive policy we have pursued in recent years. Request for withdrawal, if not, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u270	I call the Mission's appropriations "Reimbursements and Discounts" in statement B. The Government's amendment No. 3016 is a coordination amendment. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u271	In substance, we have no reason to oppose this amendment, since it has the consequences of two tax credits that are in the right direction and that have been voted on earlier. However, I have a small question, Madam Secretary of State: these appropriations are available on line 200-13-03, which traces the discounts and refunds relating to sums unduly collected; Shouldn't it be done on line 200-12, which traces the discounts associated with public policies? These are clearly public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u272	Mrs Pires Beaune, Special Rapporteur, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1225.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u273	This amendment by the Finance Committee was adopted on my proposal; The purpose of the report is to request the submission of a report concerning interest on late payment and interest on moratoriums. Indeed, during the examination of this mission, I realized that their evaluation was difficult: the tax administration's information systems are not always very well developed and we lack information. A report would further improve information systems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u275	Indeed, data on default interest and moratorium interest are not properly isolated in DGFIP's IT management applications. We agree with that. If the question is relevant, it would be appropriate to respond to this question if the FIPB information system were to be significantly changed. We propose to consider it, but given the current context of tension experienced by its agents, because of their involvement during the crisis with both employees and companies, we want DGFIP to focus on the priorities of the moment, and I am sure you will understand that. Nevertheless, the problem has our attention and, once the crisis has calmed down, we will see whether and how the data you have mentioned can be provided, because, I repeat, your request is legitimate in substance. I am, however, expressing an opinion which is unfavourable to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u276	The Special Rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u277	I withdraw it, but I reiterate my previous question on the Government's amendment No. 3016, which I believe is justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u278	We have completed our review of mission appropriations for the management of public finances and human resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u279	We are dealing with the review of sustainable ecological, development and mobility appropriations and the appropriations relating to the annex budget "Air control and operation" and to the special allocation account "Financing of aid to communities for rural electrification" (No 3399, Annexes 16 to 19; No 3398, Volumes II to VIII; No 3400, Volume VII; No 3403, Volume V). This discussion was organized into two distinct sequences. First of all, we are dealing with the budget debate on energy. Mr Eric Coquerel, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u280	I present to you for the fourth time the credits of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility", in particular on programmes 217 "Direction and management of sustainable ecology, development and mobility policies", 181 "Risk prevention", 113 "Landscapes, water and biodiversity" and 159 "Expertise, geographic information and meteorology". I have already expressed my many doubts about the effectiveness of the recovery plan that has been presented to us, both economically, socially and ecologically. Through this exceptional expenditure, the Government seeks to rely as quickly as possible on market mechanisms alone, in a short-term approach, while the subject requires a long-term vision. This is proof of the reduction in the spending, staffing and tools of state sovereignty in this mission, which is indispensable to the fight against global warming and the fall of biodiversity. It is indeed this trajectory that remains sometimes caricatured in the finance bill for 2021, as long as we take care to analyze what is hidden behind the effects of announcement and perimeter. The increase in the appropriations devoted to the debt burden of SNCF Réseau taken over by the State or that of the civil aviation budgets have, you will agree, not much to do with ecology. In fact, the Government continues to tighten the structure around the boundaries of the Ministries of Environmental Transition and Cohesion of the Territories, whose workforce and payroll are unfortunately aggregated in programme 217: the loss of jobs under the ceiling amounts to 797 full-time equivalents, a decrease of more than 3 per cent. You have heard: in this year, which sees the arrival of new budgets – even if they are insufficient – for the ecological transition, you are reducing by 797 full-time equivalents the number of departments that are supposed to direct, control and optimize these budget flows. In total, 5291 full-time equivalents have been removed since your arrival, and similar decreases apply to most ecological operators, in proportions that become, from the very admission of their leaders, intolerable. While the modest budget for the 113 "Landscapes, Water and Biodiversity" programme is expected to increase from €202 million to €230 million in payment appropriations, the bulk of the budget is for the most urgent, for example by transferring €7 million to the National Forestry Office, a body in great difficulty. Another example is the grant for public service charges from the French Biodiversity Office – OFB – increased by EUR 10 million, with the sole aim of replenishing its working capital; After a year of respite, the OFB entered the spiral of workforce deflation with the loss of 21 full-time equivalent jobs in 2021. Water agencies, whose role should, however, be increased in the context of the modernisation of water collection networks and sewerage stations, have their staff down by 2.5%. For the 159 "Expertise, Geographic Information and Meteorology" program, they are down 5.1 per cent in facial value and 1.8 per cent at constant scope. In particular, the subsidies for public service charges from CEREMA – the centre for studies and expertise on risks, the environment, mobility and development – and from Météo France decrease by 2.33% and 2.48% respectively, and their staff by about 3.5% each. The IGN – the national institute for geographical and forestry information – is down by 2.5%. CEREMA has the skills that should enable it to be a major player in the recovery plan; However, in 2021, its public service subsidy will no longer even cover the salary bill of State officials who are part of its permanent staff. The health crisis has reduced the institution's own resources, which will probably have less than a month's cash flow by 31 December. Do the Minister of Ecological Transition, the Government and its majority, wish to retain this unique public engineering tool or not, and provide it with the means to function in support of communities and ecological policy? The Director General of Météo France also told me that in five years of implementation of the Public Action Plan 2022, more than half of its staff changed their jobs, workplaces or management. With regard to programme 181 "Risk prevention", the apparent increase in appropriations is due only to the budgeting of the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards, known as the Barnier Fund, which continues by other means the diversion to the general State budget of a large part of the tax on insurance premiums. At constant scope, appropriations will decrease by 7.7%. An increase of 30 FTEs is announced for inspections of listed sites, while the Risk Prevention Branch estimated in 2018 the required number to be 200. In addition, it is apparent that the overall number of inspectors is decreasing by 11 FTEs, which suggests that the increase is actually occurring at the expense of other sectors, particularly those involved in preventing industrial or natural hazards, only a few weeks after the disaster in the Alpes-Maritimes. Finally, ADEME – the Agency for the Environment and Energy Management – is asked to pilot many of the credit lines of the recovery plan; In 2021, his employment pattern was forecast to fall by 18 FTEs. ADEME has therefore requested the recruitment of 80 to 100 CDD personnel; He was told to recruit temporary workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u281	We must conclude, Mr Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u282	As we can see, the process of destroying the State's capital of competence remains at work in an area that should, however, be a priority, according to the announcements made on the "green revival". That is why I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the appropriations for the mission 'Sustainable ecology, development and mobility'.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u283	Mr Julien Aubert, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u284	I have the task of presenting to you the energy credits included in the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". These appropriations amount to EUR 11.9 billion in payment appropriations and EUR 12 billion in commitment authorisations, an increase of 2%, taking into account the evolution of the budget model and the forthcoming closure of the energy transition trust account. In this budget, there are apparently some elements of satisfaction, even though I sometimes feel that behind the children's fable, chanted on the innocent air of the magical, enchanted and happy transition, the wolf hides. The first element of satisfaction is the change in the presentation of appropriations. Finally, and as I have been proposing for several years, we have a clearer presentation of the appropriations, with the meeting in a single credit account supporting the energy transition. Finally, our fellow citizens could know how much support for renewable energies costs. Unfortunately, I am using the conditional rather than the future, because this advance was immediately neutralized by the creation of the "Relaunch Plan" mission, which includes several credits for environmental policies. As the rhyme says: "three steps forward, three steps backwards". [[Smile on various benches]] The second reason for satisfaction is the choice to raise the budget strongly in support of the energy renewal of housing. This is a good decision, even though I regret the too narrow opening towards the ninth and tenth deciles, and the lack of resources. The credits provided in 2021 are thus less than the amount of the energy transition tax credit, spent in 2017 and 2018. In terms of children's comptine, we would rather be here on the side of "Pirouette, peanut". Finally, I welcome the challenge to the contracts for photovoltaics signed before 2011, even though I deplore the method chosen: it gives the impression that the Government wants to feather the bill and the head of the lark, when it is a question of justice – I will come back to that. These advances, however, do not mask several failures. Even when it comes to ecology, a tree does not hide the forest, even if it is enchanted. Your first failure is ecological and is due to the closure of the Fessenheim nuclear power plant. This decision will result in EDF compensation and some other actors amounting to at least EUR 400 million, and it forced us, in September, to import German electricity produced from coal. Pay 400 million euros to import coal-based electricity, drive away the nuclear fairy electricity for the benefit of the fossil witch, you had to think about it! TEN – Electricity transmission network – said again that the electricity system was placed this winter under special vigilance with regard to security of supply. A general blackout, that's what one day your electoral marriage with the Greens will cost us! While the government is threatening to limit Christmas and your ecologist friends are hunting for fir trees, we may soon not even have enough electricity to light the garlands... Your second failure is financial. In 2021, financial support for renewable energy will amount to more than €9 billion, six times more than it was in 2003. We will discuss this a little later, when we consider an amendment proposing to include a re-visit clause in all long-term contracts supporting renewable energy. The third failure is political. Why did you wait so long to communicate to Parliament your plan to reform contracts for the purchase of photovoltaic electricity prior to 2011? We have been talking about this subject for a long time. A year ago, the amendment, which I tabled on this issue, was wiped out by one side. A year later, we moved from vice to virtue: you choose to refer Parliament, by way of an amendment, tabled on Saturday in catmini, without the committee having been able to examine it, without an impact assessment and without the prior opinion of the Council of State. The Government loves urgency, limits it in an emergency, works in an emergency. As Charles de Gaulle said, whose fiftieth anniversary we are celebrating today: "Our Constitution is both parliamentary and presidential, as required by both the needs of our balance and the characteristics of our character. I deplore this deeply disrespectful method of Parliament. When you legislate in haste, you rarely do it well. No, minister, Parliament is not an incidental thing, I do not know what advisory committee in the great start-up nation. I say this all the more frankly because I agree with the principle of calling these contracts into question, even though I have tabled several sub-amendments in order to improve the proposed scheme. I hope that the state will have the courage to open negotiations with the solar energy producers, each holding for the moment through the barbichette. Finally, for these reasons of form and substance, and even if the Committee on Finance has adopted these appropriations, I propose that you do not adopt the budget for the mission 'Sustainable ecology, development and mobility'.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u285	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-09-O1068.u286	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Continued review of the mission's credits "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility". The meeting is adjourned.
