ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on various provisions relating to the health crisis, other urgent measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union (No 3027).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u2	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u3	The Joint Joint Committee which met yesterday in the Senate managed to draft a text on the provisions of the draft law relating to various provisions related to the health crisis, other urgent measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. This work has been successful because both MPs and senators have been driven by the desire to provide urgent legislative responses to the multiple needs arising from the health crisis. The French must know that with this law, the Parliament will provide concrete and strong responses to pressing concerns arising during the health crisis and which, for the most part, will disappear in the coming months. In this joint effort, I would like to acknowledge the constructive action of Muriel Jourda, rapporteur on behalf of the Senate Law Committee. His listening and his willingness to seek a compromise have taken away the conviction of his fellow senators on many sensitive issues and have made it possible to reach the agreement that is before you today. We also owe this success to the desire of both members of Parliament and senators to retain in Parliament its full powers as legislators and thus to limit to the strict minimum the powers to legislate by order. The text we are proposing to adopt has been thoroughly revised since it was presented to the Council of Ministers. It reflects our commitment to translate as many provisions as possible into plain language in the bill. I now turn to the main provisions adopted by the Joint Joint Committee. In the field of labour law and social protection, all the texts adopted in the CMP reflect a balance between protection of employment and accompanying economic recovery, with greater attention being paid to the most precarious, by extending the payment of unemployment benefits or by supporting the income of craftsmen and traders. I have therefore proposed, with my colleague in the Senate, to put in place a new system of partial activity, called "reduced activity for the retention of employment". On the basis of what had been proposed by the Government at first reading, we have placed collective bargaining at the heart of the use of this new form of partial activity. With regard to the provisions on criminal proceedings, we have reached a more than satisfactory compromise. In Article 1 Octies C, we agreed to extend the experiment of criminal courts, to which President Philippe Bas was fiercely opposed, to eight departments. And, in Article 1g D, on the reorientation of proceedings by public prosecutors, we have limited the possibility of classifying without further action only to criminal proceedings in which there are no victims. With regard to the postponement of the entry into force of the rules on the transparency of relations between representatives of interests and local authorities, introduced by the Senate in Article 1 Octies AA, we limit this postponement to only one year. We take into account the fact that the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life may face difficulties in terms of human resources to implement this reform, but we recall that these rules were voted in 2016 for entry into force in 2018 and that they have already been postponed in 2018 to 2021. With regard to the provisions relating to the armed forces, the police and the civic reserve, we have retained the texts voted by the Senate, but we have made two adjustments. Thus, Article 1d provides for the extension of the possibility of re-integration into the ranks of the deregistered military, for a maximum of one year and on a voluntary basis, to the deregistered military in the three years preceding the declaration of the state of emergency and not in the year preceding it, in order to provide the armies with a pool sufficient to cope with the shortage of men and women, which is very important in the aftermath of the crisis. Article 1f(A) provides that the ease of use of the civic reserve by public service agencies shall be retroactive to 1 April 2020, in order to cover ad hoc uses of reservists, which may have been made, inter alia, to manage queues in front of post offices. In section 2, we took back the text voted by the Senate, but re-establishing the authority to legislate by order on the continuation of the experiment relating to raising the threshold of resale at a loss and the supervision of commercial promotions of food products. Article 2 bis on international volunteers in administration has been included in the drafting of the Senate and article 2 ter deleted by the Senate has been reinstated in the drafting of the National Assembly. This article takes over the operative part of the bill passed by the Senate on March 3 during its consideration of the bill to speed up and simplify public action. It aims to homogenise the assessment of the compensation due to the victims of the French nuclear tests in accordance with the intentions of the legislator who adopted the law of 28 February 2017. Senator Lana Tetuanui of Polynesia, who chaired the panel of experts that resulted in the definition of the new application evaluation methodology, supported this measure. We then re-established clause 3 in an adapted wording to ease the fears expressed by senators, but also on these benches. The wording that is proposed to you, after having been negotiated for three days, reduces the duration of the authorization from twelve to six months and further targets the scope of centralization by excluding, in particular, EHPADs and CARPAs, the financial settlement funds of lawyers. In Article 4, which deals with the consequences of British withdrawal from the European Union, it is proposed that the duration of authorisations be set at 12 months. The Government had initially requested thirty months, the National Assembly had planned fifteen months, the Senate seven months: we agreed to twelve. The right to legislate to preserve the situation of British nationals working in France has been restored. It was necessary to ensure the continuation of the activity on our soil of thousands of British whose situation is not resolved. In addition, we maintained the Senate's clear transcript of the mechanism for determining the national safety authority for the Channel rail link, as well as the two-month deadline instead of six months for tabling bills for the ratification of orders. Finally, in Article 6, we reinstated the request for a report on the unemployment benefit for intermittent entertainment workers, while specifying that it should also concern all employees and self-employed persons whose activity is directly dependent on the cultural sector. Many of them have questioned us in recent days and this Government report will have to provide them with the necessary and useful answers. The text proposed by the Joint Joint Committee is both dense and diverse. It allows us to provide our fellow citizens with concrete legal tools to deal with the emergence of a health, economic and social crisis that is unprecedented in its scale. In this ordeal, Parliament wanted to act quickly while preserving our rule of law and the main principles of our democracy. The Government has understood and supported our approach, and I thank him very much. In conclusion, I would like to ask you to adopt the text as drawn from the work of the CMP, bearing in mind that it will be up to us to follow its proper implementation, in particular the preparation of the ten ordinances it provides for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u4	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u5	First of all, let me welcome the agreement reached between the National Assembly and the Senate at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee held yesterday. I welcome the important work of conciliation carried out with patience by your rapporteur and her colleague in the Senate, Muriel Jourda. His task was not easy because, in the absence of a special committee in the Senate, he had to find common ground during the preparatory work for this joint committee, with no less than three committees, in a time-barred fashion, since the bill had been passed by the Senate at an early hour on the night of Thursday to Friday. There were many points of disagreement at the outset: the criminal courts, the supervision of commercial promotions, the centralization of cash flows, the authorization provided for in Article 4 in the framework of Brexit. Nevertheless, a comprehensive agreement has been reached. Some, on these benches, may regret that the compromise remains below their expectations, but it seems to me that we can be pleased that agreement has been reached on these issues. They were not only a source of disagreement between the National Assembly and the Senate, they were also far from unanimous among the various political groups. Therefore, it seemed important to hear the scepticism thus expressed, to review the position of each of us, the National Assembly, the Senate and the Government, and not to pursue the parliamentary shuttle that could have been experienced as a forceful passage. A failure of the Joint Joint Committee would have been all the more regrettable given that the Senate, like your assembly, had contributed to enriching this text, and that a compromise had been reached, as early as the public sitting, on many economic and social issues. Important agreements have been reached through dialogues and exchanges. For example, Article 3 on centralisation of certain cash flows better specifies which bodies are excluded from the scheme, such as CARPAs, pension funds or certain social and medical-social institutions. We discussed it at length here in the National Assembly. I would also like to highlight the important work carried out by the ministries concerned, in the National Assembly and in the Senate, in order to transform the greatest number of legislative authorizations by ordinances into plain language. I made this commitment on behalf of the Government, before you three weeks ago, and I am pleased that it was kept. Of the forty initial authorizations, only twenty-four remained at the end of the first reading in the National Assembly. The Senate had abolished fourteen of them in committee, and only six of them remain in the draft law of the Joint Joint Committee. We have therefore gone far beyond the invitation of the Council of State. The remaining authorizations are strictly limited to subjects surrounded by too much uncertainty to be engraved in the marble: the framework of commercial promotions, Brexit or the ongoing European negotiations on the management of European funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u6	It's not a great success.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u7	The Government has therefore fully responded to your initial criticisms. Similarly, the requirement to consult has been re-established for the few remaining authorizations and the deadlines for the tabling of bills ratifying these orders have all been reduced from six to two months, except for the centralization of cash balances, which remains at three months. On the substance, I will be brief because, as the rapporteur has explained very well, this bill aims to respond to a crisis that affects many areas. First, it provides our country with the necessary resources to support economic recovery. These provisions have also been the basis of consensus between the National Assembly and the Senate, which is a good thing since they are the majority of the provisions. This applies to the adaptation of the partial activity regime and the creation of an alternative to that which, in the context of a slowdown in economic activity, could be sustainable for certain sectors such as aeronautics or automobiles. Other provisions make it possible to continue the use of short contracts or to facilitate the lending of labour in order to guarantee the maintenance of production, while the labour market is permanently disrupted. It should be recalled that these adjustments have not been granted without consideration since new social rights have been created: pension rights have been opened for employees placed in partial employment, interest in companies with fewer than 11 employees, and the possibility of paying exceptional aid to the self-employed, financed on a voluntary basis by their pension scheme. In addition, this bill ensures the continuity of public service through certain measures such as the retention of certain military personnel or to increase the maximum number of days for the mobilization of reservists of the National Police. We could also mention the provisions to make available free of charge staff in EHPADs and hospitals in times of health crisis or to extend residence permits in order to ensure the continuity of our migration policy. This text provides for the postponement of certain reforms, not to prevent them from coming into force but, on the contrary, so that they can be applied under the best possible conditions. This includes the reform of the juvenile criminal justice system or the payment of maintenance. Finally, this bill contains provisions whose urgency does not arise directly from the crisis related to covid-19, but the uncertainties on the parliamentary calendar have led us to favour this vector to present them to you. I welcome the fact that at last we can find a legislative solution to the issue of compensation for the victims of nuclear tests. For all these reasons, the Government is in favour of the adoption of this draft law as drafted by the Joint Joint Committee. It proves that, on matters of such importance to the lives of our citizens, our public officials, employees, students, but also our companies and the self-employed, Parliament has been able to legislate with speed and responsibility. It also bears witness to the spirit of responsibility that governed the exchanges between the two assemblies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u8	Mrs Nathalie Elimas, Vice-President of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u9	A little less than three weeks ago, on the occasion of the first reading, I expressed here our collective aspiration that, as far as possible, legislators should be able to decide on specific provisions and not simply delegate their power to the executive. At the same time, I had expressed the hope that we would be able to enrich this text, with the assistance of the Senate, and that, at the end of this process, many of us would feel the satisfaction and pride of having participated in it. I am pleased to see today that this wish is fulfilled, perhaps even beyond the expectations that we could then conceive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u10	Indeed, the text is well stocked!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u11	Let us measure the extent of the work done in less than a month. This text of only four articles in its original version contained only authorizations to legislate by order, which at that time numbered thirty-seven.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u12	Four out of thirty-seven, that's a good report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u13	Following the National Assembly's vote on 15 May, the bill included thirty-one articles, and the number of legislative authorizations by ordinance had been reduced to twenty-four.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u14	Only twenty-four? Then it's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u15	It's a hustle and bustle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u16	After the Senate passed the bill on the night of May 28, the bill reached sixty-one clauses, but the number of authorizations had fallen to seven.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u17	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u18	The Joint Joint Committee proposes that you adopt a text of fifty-four articles, to which will be added, in the law, the seven articles adopted in accordance with the Senate. Finally, since the CMP had reinstated three authorizations removed by the Senate, ten authorizations to legislate by order were granted to the Government. We owe this result to the various protagonists: I want to thank them, starting with our rapporteur, Guillaume Kasbarian. At first reading, in a special committee and then in a public sitting, we had already been able to appreciate his qualities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u19	[[Smile]] You are in the process of sanctification, Mr. Rapporteur! The aureole already pushes you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u20	They also came to the fore when it had to reconcile firmness and flexibility to build an agreement with our colleagues in the Senate. In CMP, we measured the quality of his relationship with his Senate counterpart, Muriel Jourda, and indeed, the success of this joint committee owes him a great deal. I think we can all congratulate him on his agility in moving from one to the other on the many issues that this bill addresses. Most often, in the Chamber, there are several rapporteurs and only one minister, but on this text there was a rapporteur, Guillaume Kasbarian, and many ministers. This admiring wink...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u21	That's a statement! Let's move on...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u22	... also allows me to welcome the Government's very strong involvement in the discussion. First, Marc Fesneau and Amélie de Montchalin, of course, but also the other members of the Government who, by participating in the debates, demonstrated their commitment to dialogue with parliamentarians and their willingness to give more content to the bill. Finally, I do not forget all the colleagues who, through their amendments or interventions, have contributed to advancing the discussion and the text. I will conclude by pointing out that the last word is not: first, the Government will have to table bills to ratify the ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u23	This is done, in a democracy! Especially under the Fifth Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u24	Secondly, Article 6, which we have re-established in the CMP after its abolition by the Senate, provides that the Government will have to submit to Parliament very quickly a report on the measures it intends to take to stay the days of deductible unemployment benefit applicable to intermittent entertainment workers, employees, self-employed persons and associated workers. Finally, Article 5 establishes a mechanism for informing Parliament of the regulatory measures taken to implement the orders, and of their readiness. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] We can therefore pass without hesitation a bill that we have not only substantially improved, but is accompanied by all these solid guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u25	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u26	The majority seems satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u27	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Lambert has the floor for a period of not more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u28	I will not exceed them, Mr. President. As we approach the final reading of the bill, with the examination of the text resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee which met yesterday morning, we can make two observations: on the one hand, it is clear that several provisions, ordinary, are still not part of a text dealing with the state of emergency; On the other hand, certain provisions unduly extend the scope of orders, which constitutes an excess of regulatory power involving fundamental principles. One can mention the independence of the judiciary, undermined by the provisions on the reorientation of procedures, and the freedom of association, which suffers from the provisions on sports federations; The Brexit provisions could also be cited.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u29	That's a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u30	Finally, it is quite critical that the validity of a number of orders – and now articles of the bill – be extended to an excessive period, sometimes far beyond the very term of the state of emergency. The text also gives rise to many concerns in the social field, as the use of several mechanisms has been made more flexible. This is the case for the loan of labour between enterprises and the loan of non-profit labour: in what way is a relaxation of the framework justified? So far, the debate has not clarified the questions of parliamentarians. This is also the case with the possibility, now offered despite the opposing demands of the main unions, to derogate from the branch agreement and to go through the company agreement for the renewal of fixed-term contracts – CSD. Finally, this is the case of the possibility of going through the company agreement to have recourse to temporary employees, apart from the normal conditions and legal limitations laid down by the current Labour Code. This means that it will be possible to use temporary employees for a task neither specific nor temporary, and beyond the limited cases listed in the law – absence of the principal employee, temporary part-time work, suspension of the employment contract. This is therefore another breach of the Labour Code. Labour law is made more flexible in a tote text, a vector that is neither adequate nor opportune for this kind of manoeuvre. And what about the provision, introduced by the Senate and unfortunately taken over by the CMP despite the opposition of the left-wing parliamentarians, which excludes unemployment measures reserved only for intermittents of thousands of workers working in the fields of entertainment, tourism, events, when they are in exactly the same situation of non-employment during this period, and probably for a moment to come? Evil, certainly. The introduction at the last moment, at the meeting of the CMP, of a request for a report to the Government on this issue does not solve the situation: it is not a report that these workers need, but real social accompanying measures. Finally, the use of orders in a matter as sensitive as the European Union's negotiations with the United Kingdom on Brexit was not necessary – certainly not beyond the initial date of the end of the negotiations, scheduled for 31 December 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u31	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u32	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u33	In order to assess whether or not it is necessary to legislate quickly, it would have been preferable to wait until 1 July 2020, when a possible extension of the transition period could be decided. Parliament should not be seen as an obstacle to law-making – what the very principle of the use of orders presupposes – but as a demanding and determined ally to achieve the best possible agreement. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, in some areas, it cannot be urgent to legislate to address the many needs that have arisen from the consequences of the crisis: the state of emergency must not, as is the case with the bill, lead to the relaxation and flexibilisation of labour law, particularly in the areas I mentioned earlier. The urgency must not prefigure the trivialization of the exception, because, if we know when the exceptional measures begin, we never really know when they end. The bill cannot be the prefiguration of what labour law could be in a few years' time: a right to the image of demolition currently in place. That is why I call on you to be very vigilant about the measures that we are going to examine. As for the Socialist and related group, he will vote resolutely against the text: against the extension of the experiment of criminal courts, even though no evaluation can yet be drawn from the experiments under way in about ten springs; against measures that, because of their complexity, should have been subject to a substantive review in the context of ordinary bills, rather than being stacked in a tote text, which leaves much to future government interpretations. To address dozens of different topics, the bill is complex and prefigures risks for our future legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u34	That's very fair!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u35	Once again in the current legislature, it is not a good way, for the majority, to make the law. We therefore oppose it and therefore propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u36	[[Smile]] You are, indeed, well below the ten minutes, Mr Lambert.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u37	He keeps his promises, unlike the Government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u38	Neither the Government nor the Commission wishes to speak on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u39	What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u40	Furthermore, there is no explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u41	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u42	I share many of the views expressed in the defence of the motion to reject – but not all of them, I am sorry. Indeed, I believe that flexibility measures in the field of work are a good thing at this time of crisis. In any event, at the beginning of the crisis, reference was made to a situation of war: France was at war, the French had to calm down at home, confine themselves, and no longer leave. It all stopped.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u43	But who said that?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u44	In this situation, the functioning of the institutions was put in brackets. In order to win, the Government was empowered to legislate by ordinances and to make the necessary decisions to make the law in an emergency. But in time of war, only the clear and precise order, which sets a course, reassures and pursues a coherent goal, is a valid order: yet, from that, we have seen nothing. The trial was followed by imprecision, as no one was able to predict what the next day would be. We come out of this situation gradually, laboriously but, we hope, surely. We should therefore be able to function again normally, the institutions will regain their full role and the directives will become readable and understandable again. Unfortunately, however, we will not be aware of this situation, since instead of this return to normal, we are presented with a full text, "gloubi-boulga" – the qualifiers have not failed –, without consistency, extremely dense and particularly illegible. In short, to get out of a crisis, we are presented with a little DIY, with no lasting measures, no course and no objective, to say that we have done something. We mix the real urgency, the one which, as I said right now, consists in saving jobs and the economy, and therefore has its full place in the text, with the exit of Brexit – which, as a minister, was placed there because we did not know where to put it – or the application of European standards. Much worse: we are trying to camouflage the explosion of our judicial system and delaying the entry into force of reforms, such as the one relating to divorce, which were nevertheless presented to us as a way of reducing the workload of the courts. In this time of overburdening of the courts, it is a solution that should be welcomed: however, these reforms are postponed without, of course, giving us the real cause – it lies in our inability to implement all of these reforms, for lack of means. Worse still, the commitments made during the adoption of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law regarding the extension of the criminal chambers to the departmental level are not respected. And unless, at the end of a bargain, we reach a more satisfactory solution, I will maintain that a departmental criminal chamber is already one too many. There is no experience in the field of justice, for in all territories the same justice is owed to all; Nor is there any interference in the work of prosecutors by inviting them to review the prosecutions which they had chosen to initiate, or even, in treaty matters, to proceed with classifications without further action. This is an unacceptable message in a State that, in the future, with such messages, will no longer be a rule of law –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u45	Lax!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u46	...the events of last night reminded us again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u47	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u48	Such provisions will lead to less justice where they are most needed, since only the overcrowded courts will apply these classification provisions: this message cannot be accepted. On the other hand, the text multiplies DIY, in particular, to try to arrange, by plucking a bit of cash to those who have it because they have managed well. These are not sustainable measures. If you have somewhat reassured those who were not affected, many are still waiting to know if they too will be affected by the device. Finally, this text also deals with Brexit, which had to be placed somewhere. The subject has also been discussed, but it is not linked to the crisis that we are going through and, in our view, cannot intervene in the discussion of this text. You will therefore understand that, apart from measures aimed at preserving employment and the stability of representative institutions – the only ones that really target the consequences of the crisis – this text cannot be used to camouflage irresponsible measures whose effects, sometimes irreversible, will persist for several months: for example, changes in the scope of personal recovery measures, in the consumer code, will remain. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We cannot accept the power to legislate by order, especially since we are present in the Chamber! How could the French, who take the metro by hundreds in the morning, understand that we cannot legislate today? In these circumstances, you will understand that the Republican Group will not vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u49	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u50	On behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, I would like to commend the work done in preparing the bill, the conclusions of which are presented today. Indeed, the text we debated two weeks ago contained many provisions that were clearly unrelated to each other. This has troubled some of our colleagues, but the context required such emergency measures, which we have therefore supported. Many of them secure provisions already contained in the various emergency texts already adopted. Others answer very legitimate questions from many of our fellow citizens; This applies in particular to measures relating to the granting of pension rights in the event of partial unemployment, to measures aimed at restorers, but also to measures relating to the development of self-interest or the securing of doctoral contracts. Our debates, both in committee and in session, have enriched the text with new provisions on seasonal work, to facilitate the activity of students, or to secure holders of expired residence permits. Parliament has fully fulfilled its role and we are pleased to see that the Joint Committee has reduced the number of legislative powers to legislate by order from thirty to ten. It was, I believe, a common will of many groups in our chamber and in the Senate, and we welcome the work of the rapporteur and the departments that have worked in this direction. At the Joint Joint Committee there remained several blocking points, such as the question of the criminal courts for which it had been proposed to increase the experiment to thirty departments. The discussions have led to a common position on this subject, which I welcome. Section 3 was also the subject of intense discussion after its deletion by the Senate. We continue to regard the measure as a useful decision, which could reduce the short-term financing needs of the State in such a particular period. I would add that guarantees have been provided, particularly with regard to pension funds. Finally, Article 4 on the ongoing discussions on Brexit has been the subject of adjustments that were desirable. My group defended at the sitting an amendment by the Committee on Foreign Affairs which increased the duration of the authorization to 12 months, compared with the original 30 proposals – a period which we felt was disproportionate and which gave Parliament its prerogatives for an unjustified period. We are therefore pleased to see that the Joint Joint Committee has been able to agree on a period of 12 months. The ongoing negotiations, which are known to be difficult, call for close work by the department with Parliament. That was the message that all the groups sent to the House at first reading. Many of the doubts that had been raised at first reading had thus been overcome, thanks to the intelligence of all parliamentarians and the open-mindedness shown by the Government. The text we have reached contains many useful and essential provisions; Several guarantees have been provided to Parliament, including a significant reduction in the number of orders. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group. – Mr Guillaume Kasbarian, rapporteur, also applauds]] I would like to thank the Government, in particular the Minister for Relations with Parliament, for listening. I also thank the rapporteur-general for his work, as well as the chairman of the special committee, Nathalie Elimas, who has worked in a remarkable way so that our debates can be held in a tighter time while maintaining a high quality – all in connection with the Senate, so that the work on this text can be completed today. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will therefore give its full support to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u51	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u52	In addition to the statement I made a few minutes ago when I introduced the motion to reject the bill, I take the floor again on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, to point out that this bill should not be a framework for experiments or measures whose exceptional nature overly derogates from the law in force, particularly when it comes to reforms concerning the reorganization of justice, the reorientation of procedures and the law of foreigners. I would like to return briefly to each of these points. As far as departmental criminal courts are concerned, this bill should not extend forms of experimentation, the evaluation of which has not yet been carried out. Created by the 2018-2022 law of programming and reform for justice, criminal courts are recently experienced. The aim of the Chancery was to reduce the trial time for certain criminal cases, with only professional judges, without popular jurors. In accordance with article 63 of the Programming Act, this experiment has been implemented in some 10 departments. However, the Government is now taking advantage of the state of health emergency to request an authorization to extend this experiment to 18 new departments. We are attentive to the principle of the orality of the debates and therefore extremely concerned about this extension, even though no evaluation of the experiment has been drawn up. The only justification given by the impact assessment is the cancellation of the sitting sessions during the period of health crisis and the delay thus taken in the hearings. However, such an experimental extension project cannot be based on the two months of a major epidemic crisis, without an evaluation of an uncompleted experiment. With regard to the reorientation of criminal or criminal proceedings, the draft law authorizes the president of the judicial court or the judge delegated by him, at the request of the public prosecutor, to decide, by order made in the interest of the proper administration of justice at least one month before the scheduled date of the hearing, to refer the proceedings to the public prosecutor's office for a further assessment of the follow-up to be given. This does not seem to be a good measure of judicial administration. Finally, with regard to the law of foreigners, residence permits have indeed been extended, but I would like to go back to another provision: the removal by the Senate of the reference to the issue by the administration of receipts in the legislative part of the Code on the entry and residence of aliens and the right of asylum when applying for a residence permit or when it is renewed. With the dematerialization of these provisional documents, the conditions under which foreigners are allowed to stay in France during the examination of their application would thus be returned to the regulatory power, of which it falls. This does not seem to be a favourable measure for foreigners, although the law would retain the explicit mention that refugees and holders of subsidiary protection enjoy the right to exercise the profession of their choice, bearing in mind the importance of this right. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to another very worrying aspect of the bill, that of social law. The state of emergency should not lead, as is the case with this bill, to a relaxation and greater flexibility of labour law with regard to the extension of CSDs, the use of labour loans between enterprises or temporary employment. A set of provisions contained in this bill deregulates these different areas; This should not be accepted, even if it is provisional. The urgency must not prefigure the trivialization of the exception. As I said earlier, we know when exceptional measures start, but we never really know when they will end. This bill should not be the prefiguration of what labour law would be in a few years' time. These are the reasons why the Socialist and Related Group will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u53	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u54	Consideration of this bill is an additional example, if necessary, of the usefulness and even the indispensability of parliamentary debate and the work done jointly by the two chambers. It is also an example of the balance that must be struck between the need to empower the Government to make decisions by order, in the context of urgency, and the need to respect the prerogatives of parliamentarians at all times. It was surprising to note that the number of authorizations had increased from 40 to 10 and that, through numerous amendments, the Government had itself included provisions originally provided for by an ordinance in the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u55	We must rejoice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u56	In substance, as we pointed out at first reading, we share your ambition about this bill. Indeed, we must take into account the scale of the crisis, ensure the continuity of public services and legitimate missions, of course support the economic revival and support the social life of our fellow citizens in all its dimensions. It was essential to take specific account of those sectors which had been closed administratively and whose activities had completely stopped – such as hotels and restaurants – as well as the consequences of that situation for their suppliers and for the whole value chain. At the first reading, we had several questions which the parliamentary shuttle helped to clarify. First, we welcome the fact that there is no longer any order on justice-related measures in the final text. However, I come to two essential points. With regard to the extension of the experiment of criminal courts, the legislative vehicle which we are completing today's discussion could not be used as a pretext for a generalisation of these courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u57	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u58	We are pleased that an acceptable compromise has been reached with the Senate; It allows the Government to extend this experiment to only eight additional departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u59	Eight too many!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u60	This is legislative opportunism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u61	The question of the reorientation of criminal proceedings, unprecedented in our law, continues to raise many doubts as to its feasibility. On the merits, it must not become a widespread appeal to appearances on prior recognition of guilt, which we fear. In section 2, we are puzzled by the reintroduction of the order to extend the test for the loss resale threshold. Fortunately, the Senate has limited this order to fourteen months; We would have preferred to wait for the Government's evaluation report in the fall and then deal with this subject within a specific framework related to trade and agricultural issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u63	With regard to Article 3, concerning the centralisation by the State of the treasury of public accounting bodies entrusted with a public service mission, the text resulting from the CMP has usefully framed the request for authorization by excluding bodies within the territorial authorities, social bodies and the funds from the financial regulations of lawyers. With regard to Article 4, on Brexit, we can certainly welcome the fact that the initial deadline of 30 months of authorisation has been reduced to 12 months, but regret that it does not correspond to the next stages of negotiations with the British and does not allow Parliament to monitor their progress almost live. Nevertheless, we welcome the initiative of our colleagues in the Senate to include directly, in the transport code, the future arrangements for the management of the Channel Tunnel in the event of a lack of agreement; This is proof that Parliament can fully deal with these matters without having to empower the Government to legislate by order. Finally, on behalf of my colleagues Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès, I would like to add that we regret the absence in this bill of the legal security of the Caledonian quarantine system. The island, free of covid-19 to date, must be able to impose on its territory a quarantine regime more restrictive than that which was organised by the law of 11 May 2020 extending the state of emergency health. While the Prime Minister had expressed his readiness to discuss in the Senate an adaptation of these provisions, at the May 19th question-of-the-fact session, unfortunately no developments have taken place on this point. The IDU and independent group will mostly support this bill, with the exception of our Polynesian colleagues Maina Sage and Nicole Sanquer, who want to make it clear that the inclusion of a subject as important as the compensation of the victims of nuclear tests has nothing to do among the emergencies resulting from the crisis of the covid -19...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u64	They're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] ... a fortiori when it comes to endorsing a more binding provision for victims. Such a subject would probably have deserved a proper legislative debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u66	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u67	Throughout our consideration of this bill, both in committee and in public sittings, we have been constantly alerting ourselves to the inconsistency and dangers of a piece of legislation, providing for extremely large and wide-ranging authorizations. While Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group expressed strong reservations at the outset about a text which called on Parliament to divest itself of its prerogatives in favour of the Government by issuing a single white-seing of its kind, the parliamentary shuttle has not convinced us any more, neither on form nor on substance. First, acknowledge that you have taken some freedom from the provisions of the Constitution governing the use of ordinances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u68	So little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u69	Article 38 of the Basic Law allows the use of orders only where it is necessary to make provisions whose urgency or complexity do not easily accommodate the rules of the legislative procedure. However, many of the authorizations provided for in this text did not meet these conditions. While the number of authorizations and their scope may have been reduced, the text resulting from the CMP is not entirely satisfactory. Indeed, some of the retained provisions will lead to legal uncertainty. We are thinking in particular of Article 2 ter on compensation for the victims of nuclear tests, which, like the Senate, we wanted to abolish. We are also thinking of Article 3 on centralization of cash flows, which the CMP has unfortunately restored. It has, of course, excluded certain bodies from its scope, but it has not gone far enough in this direction. Without wishing to draw up a list of them at the Prévert, we are concerned, like my colleague, about the integration of public, private and private health institutions in the field of empowerment. You have also, as usual, asked Parliament to again empower you to legislate by ordinances, while the previous ones have not yet been ratified – some 50 to date. Let us call for a little more wisdom in this matter. The use of orders cannot become systematic without being abusive. Of course, the covid-19 has upset the daily lives of all of us and we must adapt to them, and we must take short-term measures. Our group has supported the necessary emergency provisions, such as the extension of the validity of residence permits for foreigners and three months of asylum applications, as well as the extension of the allowance for asylum seekers, by six months. We also welcome the adaptation of the provisions on CSDs and temporary employment contracts, the inclusion in retirement of the partial activity scheme set up as a result of the epidemic, the extension of the duration of the allocation of the allowance for jobseekers or the extension of the winter truce of evictions of housing until 10 July. Attention, however, to the haste and the bounty of the executive which would benefit from this situation, in order to bypass the Parliament, to pass measures such as the extension of the experiment of criminal courts, currently under way in nine departments, which was to be extended to thirty departments after the examination by the National Assembly. Denied by the Senate, this extension was eventually limited to eighteen departments in CMP. Our group, like lawyers and certainly many litigants, is opposed to the establishment of such criminal courts, open to the disappearance of assize courts and, with them, popular juries. Despite the real risk of deterioration of the quality of the debates because of the reduction of the place of the orality and while the experiments in progress do not yet allow us the necessary setback, you have decided to extend them to other departments. This hasty seems to us to be detrimental to the effectiveness of the public service of justice. Colleagues, despite the scissors of Members of Parliament and senators, this bill cannot fully satisfy our group. It is not up to the challenges of a long-term state of health emergency and a second phase of deconfination, which is beginning, as a major economic and social crisis unfolds. This bill is an umpteenth bag of deformed pebbles, which cannot pave the way for a return to trust. That is why almost all of our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u70	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u71	At first reading, the group of France was opposed to a text which multiplied applications for authorization to legislate by ordinances on the most diverse subjects. In view of the many problems it continues to pose, you will allow me to doubt that these orders are likely to respond effectively to the urgency and provide our country with a better health and economic organization, and that is why we will continue to oppose it. The first problem is that of the legislative tool. Senators, as well as members of the House of Commons, have particularly criticized the number of orders provided for in this bill. Forty in the original bill, twenty-four were left after consideration by the National Assembly, then ten after consideration in the Senate, and those that were not removed had their scope reduced when the urgency was not sufficient to justify them, or were transformed into draft articles when the mechanism was sufficiently precise. There is no justification for such generalization of orders. The role of Parliament is not to let the Government write the law in its place. More than fifty orders have already been presented to the Council of Ministers to deal with the emergency. The majority may get used to it, but it is not our understanding of the role of parliamentarian. No, orders are not the only way to vote on time for bills that you feel are necessary in the light of the situation. This generalisation undermines parliamentary work, limits debate and poses a danger to democracy. Nor is there any urgency justifying a transformation of the labour law which exacerbates the precariousness of workers, and that is why we firmly oppose it. You propose, for example, to increase the possibilities of using CSDs without any constraint, or to derogate from the maximum number of vacations in a range of public missions. Most of these weakenings in labour law can be extended six months after the end of the state of health emergency. While the economic crisis threatens, it is unacceptable to respond to it by reducing employee rights and increasing insecurity: the CDI must remain the norm. The texts that you have adopted since the beginning of the covid-19 epidemic already multiplied the antisocial measures. I am thinking, in particular, of working time, of that which allows employers to force employees to take their days off during confinement. By amending the Labour Code for a period that will extend well after the end of the state of emergency, you are pursuing this policy, to the detriment of those whom you applauded during the crisis, those who have turned the country and who continue to do so. You prove once again that you are not at the service of the general interest or the common good. You go so far as to take advantage of this text to legislate on matters relating to Brexit. What does it have to do with the state of emergency? Ambitious solutions and proposals exist, however, which would make it possible to overcome the crisis. Why not introduce new rights, real job security in times that will continue to be particularly difficult for employees who are hit hard by the crisis? Why not provide jobless people with protection that guarantees them a dignified life? For us, the urgency would be, for example, to guarantee to all the freezing of bank incident charges that penalize households already weakened by the crisis, or the free use of masks – it is unacceptable that their price increased five to ten times during the crisis –; extend the right to abortion for 14 weeks; to ensure the free funeral of the victims of the covid-19; create a tax on the profitors of the crisis; to introduce a moratorium on rents or supplementary food aid for the most vulnerable, as our country has seen a 30% increase in food aid applications. You have not taken our proposals into account as you are cut off from the immediate realities and the social emergency. Unfortunately, your text is not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u72	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u73	We are called upon to fulfil our responsibilities in the exceptional context of an unprecedented health crisis and its social and economic consequences for our country. To overcome it, the Government has already taken measures that the EDS Group supports, we would like to recall. I am thinking in particular of the first support plan and of a particularly wide range of partial unemployment compensation compared to our European neighbours. I also share the satisfaction expressed by our colleagues in the majority with the few advances contained in this text. At least our ability to significantly reduce the number of orders originally provided for in the bill proves that Parliament is still monitoring compliance with the principle that it is the law and that the government's authority to make orders must remain the exception, useful and limited, under the upstream and downstream control of the Assembly and the Senate. Is that enough, ladies and gentlemen? Alas, no. Our group is particularly concerned about ensuring that the mandate we have and the democratic demands that drive the work of a Member of Parliament are respected. Do voting procedures respect minimum guarantees? We don't think so. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Council seized for this reason of the latest law extending the state of emergency has even expressed concern that not all Members will be able to vote in the Chamber. We deplore the refusal of electronic voting as well as the refusal to transfer the place of deliberation to a place more suited to the rules of physical distancing or to adopt rules of delegation that are more respectful of each other's vote. Our Parliament, legislator and evaluator, must be given the flexibility to carry out its tasks, which the Senate seems to have been very successful. I'm coming to the bottom. Do we find in this text various emergency provisions, in essence disparate, elements of satisfaction? I know that some of our colleagues have made progress, in particular temporarily improving the situation of foreigners during this crisis or the arrangements for integration contracts. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the use of the IVG, since the many amendments tabled to this effect have all been rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u74	No! They were inadmissible under article 45!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u75	While we note progress in teleconsultation, we call for this urgency for women to be taken into account, and in this regard I welcome the unwavering commitment of my colleague Albane Gaillot. Similarly, there are many doubts about the extension of the experiment in criminal courts, as well as about the measures relating to Brexit, which do not seem at all relevant to the institutional timetable. I must also strongly denounce the possibility opened up by Article 1 of the Treaty this year of many basic principles of labour law, in particular those governing the use of short contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u76	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u77	Employees' organisations, as well as entrepreneurs, have told us that they are perplexed by the possibility of making the durations of the CSDs and the arrangements for their renewal more flexible, by means of a simple company agreement and without consideration. That is what this text allows, as the Senate and the CMP have also deregulated the use of acting. Such easing, adopted without any consultation with the social partners, seems to us to make the situation of employees even worse. However, as you know, access to basic rights, such as the right to housing, is being restricted in terms of employment. We are opposed to the introduction, even as a transitional measure, of such an exception to the employment contract, which the current context is not sufficient to justify. I also note the absence of a mechanism explicitly guaranteeing the effective exit of the exceptional social status provided for in this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS and SOC groups]] You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that, while recalling its intention to build with the majority and the Government, our group cannot vote in favour of a bill that we consider dangerous for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u78	Dangerous?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u79	It's shameful to say so much nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u80	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u81	[[Laughs]] "Here comes the time/ Laughing and singing,/ On the island to children,/ It is every day in spring. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u82	Casimir! This is our generation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u83	[[Smile]] You're rejuvenating us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u84	So we're talking about a text called "gloubi-boulga" by the very serious Gazette des communes! A text that speaks of everything and nothing, sort of omnibus or broom car of the state of emergency...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u85	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u86	...responsible for collecting in front of each ministry, each taking advantage of the parliamentary balances to pour his drawer funds, and you considered that to be a law. It is the season of the agreements on the right, between the Republicans and the Republicans on the move: agreement on the creation of a commission of inquiry, agreements on the municipalities, in Lyon and elsewhere, and now on this text. The Senate has vaguely rebuked some of your ardour without proposing anything other than cosmetic improvements. Parliament has not been able to work in satisfactory conditions: we still did not have the final text last night and we still have the unpleasant feeling of staying on the station dock watching the train pass. As I said at first reading, this text includes necessary measures but, even if you have reduced the number, it still provides too many ordinances, i.e. as many blanks and shades, as well as unacceptable provisions. The Government thus wanted to extend to thirty departments the experiment of criminal courts replacing the assize courts; As the Senate felt that such an extension would leave us out of a strictly experimental framework, the text finally provides for the experimentation of eighteen criminal courts. It is the very principle of these criminal courts that poses a problem and the sincerity of your willingness to experiment that is at issue: you can in no way rely on the state of emergency to justify the extension of this system, without admitting that it is only a palliative aimed at introducing a logic of slaughter in criminal matters. The Senate has similarly limited the scope and duration of the authorization for the deposit of funds from certain agencies, sometimes entrusted with a public service mission, into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. While we welcome the exclusion of lawyers' funds from the scheme, the final text reintroduces the possibility for the Government to centralize certain funds on the Treasury account by order, leaving a number of outstanding issues. In addition to these meagre advances, we are experiencing setbacks. While the Senate had removed the article applying new restrictions to the processing of the cases of victims of nuclear tests in Polynesia, the CMP reinstated this article, denounced as a dishonest scheme aimed at cancelling the meagre progress made by the victims' associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u87	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u88	You're not even out of it. I am also pleased that your attempt to ease the framework for public procurement has failed. Finally, in the field of social measures, the final text shows further setbacks, whereas its original version already contributed to the deflation of the Labour Code, by multiplying the derogations. Under the guise of an objective of economic recovery, you are a little more precarising the world of work, while precariousness threatens to develop in a galloping way. Thus, the maximum duration of fixed-term contracts and temporary contracts will be increased from eighteen months to three years, including renewals, which will apply up to six months after the end of the state of emergency. The text before us also tackles social dialogue, by shortening the deadlines for consultation of social and economic committees in enterprises, or by providing loans for non-profit labour. You exempt employers from many consultations that are mandatory in ordinary times. The new system of partial activity, if it is to enable companies affected by the crisis to be accompanied in the long term, so that they preserve employment, will cause the employees, in return, to lose their wages. That's not acceptable. The granting of this scheme could have been conditional on strong environmental commitments and vocational training, but this is unfortunately not the case. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will maintain its vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u89	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u90	We come to the conclusion of the review of this new emergency bill in the face of the crisis, a project of resilience of economic and administrative arrangements which demonstrates once again to the French, but also to our partners and international economic actors, the seriousness of the majority, as well as its ability to adapt the normative framework very quickly and to counter the situation. Some have mocked the diversity of topics addressed in the text and described it as a tote. However, the challenges and concerns faced by the French are very diverse: employment contracts, the professional future, the organisation of public services, the future of public finances, all of which require reassuring responses from the State. That is the purpose of the bill, which contains many essential provisions and advances to manage the consequences of the crisis. First of all, new measures preserve employment. Our message is clear: everything will be done to support employees and businesses. From the beginning of the crisis, the state has chosen to protect jobs and skills massively, by strengthening the partial activity scheme: 12 million employees have benefited from this most protective "social shield" in Europe, widely welcomed in this Chamber and by our partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u91	You've blocked the whole country for lack of tests and masks! The government's bad strategy is going to cost us a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u92	The State must continue to adapt and respond to the post-conflict situation, in order to encourage economic recovery and to counter the risk of dismissal due to the decline in activity, particularly in the sectors that have suffered the most from the crisis. That is the meaning of the new arrangements which the Assembly adopted, and on which the Joint Joint Committee reached agreement yesterday. I am thinking in particular of the new system of reduced activity for the maintenance of employment, which will, with the agreement of the trade unions, reduce the working time of employees and moderate wages, provided that employment is maintained in full over time. The State will support this scheme, compensating part of the loss of purchasing power and supporting the training of employees. This new measure will allow companies to reduce their production capacity to adapt to demand, while avoiding lay-off. This innovative mechanism demonstrates once again our ability to respond to the challenges of the crisis, not by betting on old revenues, but by developing innovative solutions with the social partners. The bill also includes real social advances for employees – it must be emphasized and put to the credit of the majority. Throughout the state of emergency, it makes it compulsory to maintain collective guarantees of supplementary social protection for employees in partial employment. It also creates a genuine right to basic retirement for these same employees, a right which did not previously exist and which will benefit two thirds of them. Finally, the text supplements the provisions of the so-called CAPTE law on the sharing of value in enterprises by simplifying the procedure for the self-interest of employees of the TPEs. The crisis also calls for resilience measures on the part of the State. They will go through exemplary management of public finances, in a context of massive public debt relief. Article 3, which I know has been the subject of much debate in both the Assembly and the Senate, is intended to strengthen the centralization of the financial availability of various agencies in the Treasury accounts – and we fully assume it. This will allow the State to raise debt at a lower cost, and will therefore benefit public finances. Many, on these benches, champion the good management of the state budget, but when it comes to action, they are the first to defend immobilism! Despite the crisis, France remains mobilized in the face of Brexit, which affects our companies and our citizens. Article 4 will enable the State to anticipate the consequences of the end of the transitional period of the UK withdrawal agreement. The CMP agreed to increase the Government's power to legislate by order to 12 months. In doing so, Parliament sends a clear message: alongside the Government and the European Commission, it intends to allow the necessary time for negotiations beyond the end of 2020, and will be ready to mobilize in the event of an emergency. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Finally, I would like to commend our rapporteur for the high quality of his work, as I would like to thank you, Minister, and all your colleagues who have supported you. The La République group is in the process of voting in favour of this emergency bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u93	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u94	Surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u95	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u96	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-03-O1223.u97	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion of the motion for a resolution declaring the need for an ecological and solidarity bifurcation in order to move towards happy days; Discussion of the bill to cap bank charges; Discussion of the motion for a resolution declaring the need for the redemption of public debt by the European Central Bank and its conversion into perpetual debt; Discussion of the proposed legislation to clarify the scope and funding of natural disaster orders. The meeting is adjourned.
