ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u1	The next item is the debate on Mrs Danièle Obono's motion for a resolution, tabled pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, declaring the need for an ecological and solidarity bifurcation in order to move towards happy days (No. 2913).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u2	Mrs Danièle Obono spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u3	The health crisis has amplified the main message of this resolution, which has been expressed for years by scientists, non-governmental organizations and youth. This message is that there is a vital, civilizational urgency to change course. The covid-19 pandemic has placed us in the face of our responsibilities: destruction of natural habitats, intensive breeding, unbridled globalization and frenetic urbanization have contributed to the transmission of the animal virus to humans and its spread. This crisis has brought to light inequalities, which have further exacerbated them; The whole neoliberal model is being called into question. She also reminded us what our priorities should be: the protection of everyone, the common goods and public services, the trades and employees that ensure our daily survival. Finally, she pointed out the levers to meet these needs: solidarity, collective mobilization and a strategist state capable of anticipating and planning. Today, there is much question of the world after, which should be born once the test has been overcome. In France unsuspecting, we believe that this world after is built right now; There must be no return to normal, because it is precisely normality that is the problem. The question is, in what direction do we want to guide society? The Government is talking about recovery; we say bifurcation. He wants to save the world from before; We propose to build another world, in common. The acceleration of climate change has been documented for more than half a century, but no policy of magnitude has yet been deployed to deal with it. The draft Green Pact – the Green Deal of the European Commission – was already insufficient before the crisis; It is now obsolete. We propose a way to respond to the urgency and build, in the long term, a more resilient and supportive society. Borrowing requires a complete paradigm shift and a fundamental restructuring of economies. Developments of this kind have already taken place, particularly after the Second World War in Europe, under the leadership of states, whose public power was, and still remains, the only one capable of inducing and making coherent the necessary transformations. Thus, planning, which was decisive in rebuilding a country in ruins, can and must be used to make it bifurcate in the direction of ecological sustainability and social justice. To see clearly and far away, we need new statistical tools, which integrate environmental impacts at all levels, prepare structural changes and set long trajectories. In this way, we will be able to disinvest fossil and nuclear energies and invest heavily in renewable energies – the goal is to decarbonize the economy completely within ten years. The aim is to transform our production patterns, reduce our levels of consumption of natural resources, organise sobriety and energy efficiency, develop more sustainable uses and restore and preserve ecosystems. Let's get out of productivism, which leads to the depletion of soil like farmers. Let's relocate the industry and extend the life of the objects, putting an end to the era of disposable and planned obsolescence for maintenance and repair. Let us develop and value the professions of care and public service. All this will create millions of jobs, when they are not already guaranteed by the state. These changes can only succeed if the entire population makes the decision and participates actively, only if each and every one contributes according to his or her means and receives it according to his or her needs. Indeed, let us recall, we are not equal in the face of disaster, in terms of responsibility or consequences. One hundred multinational companies emit more than 70 per cent of global greenhouse gases, 0.5 per cent of the richest produce 13 per cent of lifestyle-related CO emissions, and the poorest countries have the lowest negative environmental impact, while they suffer most severely from the consequences of climate change. Democracy, social justice and environmental justice are linked. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Beyond this assembly, this resolution is addressed to Greta Thunberg, Ridhima Pandey, Autumn Peltier, Leah Namugerwa, Mari Copenhagen and young people on strike for the climate around the world; to the families of the "landless" who are fighting to develop ecological agriculture in Brazil, as well as to the yellow vests that have revolted in France against the impossible end of months; the inhabitants of Flint poisoned by water, as well as those of the West Indies contaminated with chlordecone; employees threatened with dismissal while their companies have benefited from billions of public money in France, as well as Bangladeshi workers who lose their lives in poverty workshops; children exploited in the mines of the Congo to enrich the digital giants; to all those who struggle every day for a more living, breathable and just world. We do not promise a quiet revolution, we outline some milestones of an immense collective challenge to be met; We aspire not to the search for maximum profit, but to the preservation of the ecosystem, which makes human life possible, and to the construction of a world that makes it beautiful and worthy of being lived. We call on you to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution in order to regain the taste for happiness and that the happy days come, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u4	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u5	In its political declaration, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group stated very recently that, in the face of the covid-19 pandemic and all its consequences, our country needed a tenfold political commitment, in keeping with the unprecedented circumstances, to carry out compelling battles useful to present and future generations. Clearly, the ecological and social concern is the core of our group's commitment. By addressing environmental, social and democratic issues in a cross-cutting manner, the motion for a resolution defends a very ambitious objective. First of all, however, it seems clear to us that the quest for happiness and happy days must not be a matter of utopia, but rather of the adoption of concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u7	The world that we know and that you criticize – rightly – suffers from a deep evil, that of inaction. Then let us act concretely to arrive at these happy days. Priorities must be set to seriously consider a better future for future generations. Thus, we will never choose the path of alarmism and catastrophism, but that of reason and rigour in our programme. We have seen in the motion for a resolution a clear desire to develop the circular economy, which requires that our socio-ecological pact be realistic. As the Members of the House who signed the resolution point out, it is difficult to see a completely renewed world by remaining indefinitely in outdated consumption patterns. So we want to approach this new model, without systematically destroying the successes we have already achieved. Our priority is to include in the Constitution the preservation of climate and biodiversity, in order to best protect the nature without which our civilization is doomed to its own destruction. However, sustainable development depends above all on an ecological dynamism of the territories, in order to finance more simply the solidarity projects of the future, avoiding an over-centralization that erases local realities, which are nevertheless crucial. Thus, we must organize the food and agricultural resilience of our territories, so that they are no longer in the balance of a deadly agri-food industry. We therefore propose a number of concrete measures in this direction. We know that farmers suffer from the large-scale distribution system: let us encourage them to develop direct sales at harvest sites; Let's adapt our way of consuming, by promoting the development of local ordering internet platforms. It is also desirable that bulk sales businesses, which reduce waste and produce from organic farming, should be financed as soon as possible. In order to achieve this, we call for the introduction of an opening premium for traders embarking on such projects. On the other hand, the promotion and financing of regional ecotourism must take a large part in this search for the relocation of our economies. So let's make our regions attractive by offering culture and heritage passes during the summer, in order to attract local tourists. These ecological proposals are therefore part of a cross-cutting approach, without which we will not be able to achieve significant objectives within tight deadlines. Moreover, democracy and human beings must be at the heart of our concerns. In order to achieve the good days of tomorrow and the sustainable development goals of the 2030 Agenda, to which France has subscribed and for which it set itself a roadmap last September, the best solution is to work in practice to implement the plans already drawn up, which have been discussed at length, and which need not be reinvented once again, but rather to bring about a successful outcome. The motion for a resolution is therefore very interesting in terms of its substance and its main objective. However, we will strive to support a pragmatic line that is consistent with the realities we know. So our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u8	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u9	Mr Jean-Charles Larsonneur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u10	The brutal erosion of biodiversity and climate change require decisive action. We share the recognition of the urgency to act, but neither the diagnosis nor the method that this resolution proposes. We will have to tackle these challenges collectively, with pragmatism. I must admit that I find it difficult to see the "happy days" in France's unsuspecting project, which, far from being united, brings together the French and Europeans around a common vision, opposes them and weakens the cement of our society. It's not the National Council of Resistance that wants to.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u12	Only an "ecology of freedoms", dear to my colleague Valérie Petit, can enable us to succeed. In contrast to the frontal and sterile opposition between public and private, between urban and rural territories, between planning and individual initiatives, the Action Together group prefers the bet of the intelligence of citizens, local actors, elected officials, public officials and associations. We make the choice of business pragmatism and innovation in our territories, within an incentive and proactive framework. The need to open up environmental issues is already illustrated by the creation of the ecological defence council and the citizen climate convention, whose proposals we are awaiting. We have in France, "this old country that goes from declines to renewals", as General de Gaulle said,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u13	It's not Gaul who wants to!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u14	...everything you need to bounce. Let us not give in to the old protectionist moons, the Pavlovian reflexes of self-absorbing or fiscal baton. A tax trick has never saved jobs, and it could tomorrow lead to our competitiveness and recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u16	Free trade agreements must therefore be concluded!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u17	The fight for the sustainable development of our society must be a source of virtuous growth,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u18	Ah! Growth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u19	... which fights against social inequalities and public debt, which, let us not forget, is in essence contrary to the requirements of sustainable development. To achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, we must redouble our efforts, relying on innovation, research and development, which would be irresponsible. We welcome the effort of EUR 20 billion in the major investment plan for the development of renewable energy sectors, the emergence of a sustainable transport model and the thermal renovation of buildings. Recent plans to support the automotive and aeronautics sectors are also part of the logic of a more decarbonized industry. The Green Pact proposed by the European Commission, which aims at carbon neutrality by 2050, must be respected, as must the investment plan for a sustainable Europe, which will mobilise more than EUR 1000 billion of public and private funding over ten years. Beyond these measures, the Group of the European People's Party calls on the European Union to do more, by assuming to raise the price of carbon, to introduce a tax on plastic, to put an end to fossil fuel subsidies, and to commit itself fully to carbon taxation at our borders. [[Mr. Daniel Labaronne applauds]] In conclusion, I would say that ecology cannot be achieved without the accession of citizens and territories, multilateralism and Europe. Because we are now all ecologists and all convinced of this urgency, let us act together to build an ecology of freedoms. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u20	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u21	I thank the La France group for this motion for a resolution. It was tabled before the serious health crisis that we are experiencing and which, I believe, constitutes an even more favourable context for this debate and for the vote on the resolution. Indeed, the crisis has brought to light a world that is not turning around, after decades of neoliberal management that have undermined our public health system. It is felt that in this country, LBD's stockpiles – the launchers of defence bullets – are better managed than masks, that workers who carry out essential activities are the least well paid, that citizens exposed to the virus are the most controlled by law enforcement, and that famine threatens millions of people – and not exclusively in countries where this phenomenon is, if not usual, at least known – while food is widespread. In short, "there is nothing abnormal anymore since the abnormal has become usual. Thus everything is arranged." You know these phrases of the King dies of Eugene Ionesco; They appear to be the maxim adopted by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a pivotal time. It invites us to rethink not only our practices, but also the whole system in many ways. Capitalism, so voracious for our lives, our needs and our desires, has lasted too long, and our modes of production, exchange and management must be radically renewed. It is necessary to change the paradigm, and that is what the Group of the European People's Party is defending with its motion for a resolution which calls for a bifurcation. It's time to choose. It is no longer to be demonstrated that the origin of this pandemic is ecological. It is described as an anthropocene disease, the spread of which is related to the way human beings inhabit and use the Earth. Worse still, this crisis has nothing to do with accident: many experts agree that it is a preface to an era of increasingly frequent pandemics. It would be absurd to strive to treat evil with evil. We therefore call for a real ecological revolution. This text proposes a new course, by reappropriating the words of the National Council of Resistance – CNR. It proposes both ecological planning and the consolidation of social rights, reorienting the resources of the State. New social rights and ecological revolution: the two obviously go hand in hand. This new course is meant to be defined collectively; This is essential, because such societal change cannot be achieved without a substantive democratic debate. This motion for a resolution is therefore radically removed from President Macron's language gymnastics, which referred to "happy days" by referring to the reopening of coffee terraces. President Macron is pursuing a policy that is at the opposite end of the CNR programme. And this deviousness of words is reflected in all environmental policies, which constitute a permanent greening of capitalism. The direction of fiscal policy since the beginning of the quinquennium is proof of this. In 2018, with the introduction of the carbon tax, fragile households experienced an increase of €3.7 billion in levies, when, at the same time, the abolition of the ISF – solidarity tax on wealth – and the flat tax provided the most affluent with more than €3 billion in tax relief. The call to sacred union and the belligerent lexical field of the President of the Republic have not deceived anyone. The French and French have seen the limits of a system guided by profit alone. It is now essential to break with this logic, which has so weakened the ability of States to respond to this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u22	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u23	This motion for a resolution echoes the words of the National Council of Resistance, but also evokes the invention challenges we face in facing the challenges of our time. Let us draw inspiration from the CNR's values and its desire to establish a "rational organization of the economy ensuring the subordination of particular interests to the general interest". Let us oppose the logic of the market a political system decided collectively and guided by the satisfaction of needs and ecological imperatives. It is a fundamental rupture of the neoliberal system that should be considered. Ambition, political will and strong actions: this is what we need to deal with this crisis and those that are about to happen. There is a need to disarm financial markets by controlling capital and banning the most speculative operations, to condition central bank and business aid for social and ecological conversion, to massively support public services and to launch an ambitious plan to relocate agriculture. Colleagues, let's go to the rendezvous! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] As you have understood, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u24	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u25	Despite the very caricatural nature of some of your remarks, Mrs Obono, I would first like to point out some convergences of views.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u26	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u27	We share your view on the extent of climate change and the need to move even faster and further into our environmental transition policies. On the occasion of this unprecedented crisis related to the covid -19, we make our reference to the National Council of the Resistance...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u28	You've got nerves!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u29	... with the expression of the return to the "happy days", which the President of the Republic himself used in his address to the French on 13 April. What a disappointment then, ladies and gentlemen, to see that your motion for a resolution sweeps away the work carried out in this House over the last three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u30	There's not much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Were you not present, Mrs Obono, when we examined, in this House, the many pieces of legislation in favour of ecological transition? Law of 30 December 2017 putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons; railway pact of 27 June 2018; Law of 30 October 2018 for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all; Law of 24 December 2019 on the orientation of mobility; Law of 8 November 2019 on energy and climate; Act of 10 February 2020 on the fight against waste and the circular economy: these are all texts of which we can be proud, because they change the daily lives of the French by placing the country on the path of carbon neutrality. We act in many areas:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u32	It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u33	... environmental health, biodiversity conservation, sustainable agriculture, renovation of buildings, transport, green energy, combating waste, or recycling of waste. They have given rise to so many strong, concrete and structuring laws, along with symbolic decisions taken by our majority, such as the resumption of SNCF's debt,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u34	And dismantling the SNCF!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u35	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... 35 billion euros, and the development of soft and shared mobility, the multiplication of biomethane development projects, the multiplication by five of the solar and three of the wind within ten years, the development of the share of local and organic products in the collective restoration, the closure of the last four coal-fired power plants in metropolis, the cessation of the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport project, the cessation of the mining project of the Montagne d'Or, the cessation of the EuropaCity project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u36	So you're a zadist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u37	All this is done by us! We have therefore done a great deal in the last three years, and we can build on these achievements to continue and step up our efforts, with a very clear roadmap, to enable every Frenchman to be involved in the ecological transition. To accompany the most modest ones, to encourage as much as possible, to force as a last resort: this is our road map.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u38	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u39	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] Your motion for a resolution is also an opportunity to observe the fundamental differences between our vision of ecology, progressive, pragmatic, positive, and your dogmatic, Manichean and declineist conception.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u40	Dear colleagues of the La France group, this is certainly your day,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u41	No, it's hers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u42	...but please listen to our colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u43	You are for the decline and against the market economy; we are for a reasoned and shared growth. For yes, ladies and gentlemen, the ecological transition represents a triple opportunity for economic development, social justice and spatial planning. You are the supporters of a speech sometimes anti-science,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u44	Madam President, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u45	...complotist and anti-technology, while we have a rational and progressive vision, in order to foster technical innovations at the service of men. You say that you want citizens to take their full part in the concrete elaboration of the ecological transition: this is precisely what we are doing with the citizens' convention for the climate, decided by the President of the Republic and which will deliver its conclusions in a few weeks' time. You advocate drastic restriction in our ways of life and our individual freedoms;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u46	Oh, no, that's you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u47	Does he do it on purpose?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u48	...we apply an ecology of possibilities allowing everyone to live better. You shoot and isolate ecology towards the far left, while we believe that this great cause must go beyond partisan divides and bring us all together. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, initiating socially acceptable transitions and succeeding collectively in changing our way of life requires time, responsibility, and means to accompany change. You have to tell the French the truth and not let them believe, as you do, that everything could be solved in a slamming of fingers, with great reinforcement of "there is only, we have to".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u49	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u50	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] You claim to have a popular ecology, but you actually present us all the faces of a populist ecology. The ecological transition is a complex subject, which deserves much better than the simplistic, manicane and dogmatic vision that you propose to us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u51	Thank you for this moment of great fun!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u52	You don't know anything about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u53	We have listened to you religiously, respect the speakers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u54	A speech like that, when we started quietly, it's not respectful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u55	The floor is for Mr Jean-Marie Sermier, whom we are listening carefully, like previous speakers. Ladies Obono and Panot, the day will be long: spare your strength.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u56	I listened carefully to Mr Danièle Obono's presentation. In essence, this debate goes far beyond politics: in truth, it is rather philosophical. I respect all convictions, but obviously we do not have the same vision of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u58	When I read the explanatory memorandum, page after page, which deals with new viruses from Earth's depths, repeated disasters, species disappearances, I couldn't help but think of Francis Ford Coppola's excellent film Apocalypse Now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u59	A very good movie!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u60	So much catastrophism may fuel fears, but it will not help us to solve the real problems we face. Also in the explanatory memorandum, dear colleague, I was struck by your definition of "happy days". You want to create "new indicators of well-being," but how could a piece of legislation define happiness? What an inappropriate interference in the privacy of everyone! Deciding by law what makes a being happy seems to me to have a bad Orwellian character. Such an intellectual approach bothers me, because it refers to those regimes that decided what was good and what was bad for the submissive peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u62	In this context, let me reaffirm, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, strong convictions about the report that needs to be done with ecology. First, let us avoid sensationalism: communication must not take precedence over action. However, the majority has sometimes fallen into this pitfall, particularly when it has abolished the production of hydrocarbons in France. We have found a way to put 1500 people out of work without any reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, as we have simply increased our oil imports from the Middle East.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u64	Second example: the end of sales of fossil-powered automobiles in 2040. We are the only ones in the world to do so and thus lead a number of people to unemployment, when it is only a sensational measure. It is an elected member of Dole, the birthplace of Louis Pasteur, who tells you: the dramatic crisis we are experiencing must at least have the merit of putting science back at the heart of the debates. We will not go to a more sober society without scientific progress. We don't think we need a bifurcation. In this term, borrowed from car semantics, there is a form of brutality that involves endangering the driver and his passengers. The Republicans, on the other hand, want tranquillity, not decay. Green growth, yes; growth controlled, yes; but decline, no.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u65	You misread the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u66	We believe that it is possible and desirable to reconcile the fight against global warming, scientific progress, growth and human development, that is, to improve the living conditions of our fellow citizens. Thus, to reduce energy consumption, we know that the first lever is, by far, the building. That is why we strongly defend the resorption of thermal colanders, especially in the city centres. Our country can be proud to have innovative companies in the field of positive energy construction, such as the Elithis group in Burgundy Franche-Comté. A second major axis will probably be the decarbonization of energy uses. This is an important issue in transport, where consumption accounts for two thirds of the oil products used in France. Let us continue to develop electric vehicles, which means strengthening the nuclear industry. Let us continue research and development on hydrogen mobility, which scientists assure us is a source of hope. Let us develop renewable energies, especially biofuels and methanization, which offer new opportunities for our farmers. The vision you seem to have of farmers in the motion for a resolution does not correspond to reality. You will not be able to feed the planet, nor will you be able to provide families with only small, sparse farms. A farmer today is a businessman who feeds the planet; We checked it during this health crisis. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Since the motion for a resolution before us is very broad, it could still call for many comments. I will conclude by saying that if the French probably all aspire to "happy days", they will not let anyone define happiness in their place. In these circumstances, the Republican Group will not support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u67	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u68	We are all here, I believe, driven by the same will: to use the exceptional crisis that we have just experienced to instill in all the countries of the world a real awareness of the dangers of biodiversity erosion. As we now know, this crisis derives from the negative effects of the relationship between biodiversity and the natural resources of our industrial societies. Our role, as politicians, is to ensure that the lessons of this crisis do not remain a dead letter. It is a matter of not repeating the error of the 2008 crisis, which had not led to profound changes in our French, European and international societies. The coronavirus pandemic is a warning signal: we no longer have a choice, it is essential to respond strongly and quickly. So here we are at a crossroads, between an imposed ecology, which risks causing further stress, and a purely economic revival that ignores ecological considerations. The MODEM and related group chooses the third path, that of the territorial ecological transition, which passes through the territories, which allows the French to work where they live and to redeploy economic activity as close to the ground as possible. Ecology is above all a matter of territory: it is they who, on a case-by-case basis, decline the best solutions in the fields of circular economy, recycling of waste, development of renewable energies and energy renovation of buildings. In the ongoing and forthcoming reflections on green recovery, we need to devise tools to help local executives plan for the installation of photovoltaic panels for all newly built buildings with roofs that allow it, in order to ensure energy self-sufficiency, to encourage all companies with computer space in their basement to deploy a heat recovery system, in order to supply the entire building, to identify the buildings with the most modest donors and which would be priority for State aid for energy renewal, thus avoiding that only the richest ones renovate their housing, to ensure an efficient territorial industrial ecology, in which the waste of certain companies would become the resources of other companies in the same territory. We must establish all of this in consultation with local executive bodies, but we will not be able to find the same solutions everywhere. Not all territories can accommodate wind turbines, for example, but some can develop methanization or geothermal power plants. It is this ecology that we call for: the one in which we give the means to act to all our territories of metropolis and overseas, the means to adapt according to the realities that they know the principles that we have defined. Ladies and gentlemen of the La France group, the guidelines you are developing in your motion for a resolution are therefore the right ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u69	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u70	Of course they're the right ones! We also want the relocation of activities, solidarity protectionism, constant respect for environmental objectives and ecological planning. On the other hand, we are very embarrassed by its application, which would be very conflicting. The opposition between public and private, between ecology and economy, which you draw through your motion for a resolution, cannot win our approval. Rather than subordinate one to the other, we prefer to find a balance. We have seen it in recent years, even more during the health crisis: as soon as it comes to opposing economics and ecology, we have reached impasses. Yes, we need to rethink our economic model. Yes, our environmental commitments must be more ambitious. But both must be thought together, so that the whole economic sector, from small businesses to large banks, can be found there. We therefore agree to consider the reduction of working time and the reform of training curricula, but not in a comprehensive way. Each trade has its own particularities and imposes a unique response to trades as different as education, catering or commerce is impossible. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, your motion for a resolution bears our support for the intention to deploy a plan for a sustainable and decarbonised economic recovery. However, it is far too large and takes the risk of widely mixing subjects with very different realities by opposing them. That is why we cannot vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u71	Mr Guillaume Garot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u72	I thank Danièle Obono and the Group of the European People's Party (France) for defending this motion for a resolution. I believe that the debate on climate emergency and social justice, which are two interrelated issues, we know well, is still necessary and welcome to the National Assembly. But on a technical level, we regret that this text is not a bill. Indeed, a debate on a bill would have forced everyone to go to the bottom of things. We would have been faced with our responsibilities, we would have had proposals to make; The Government, on the other hand, would have had to respond. However, we know the habits of the parliamentary majority: if you had tabled a bill, there was a risk that it would be emptied of its substance in committee. So we can understand your choice. In this motion for a resolution, we have real points of convergence with you: the idea of conditionality of aid to ensure that our development model is ecologically guaranteed; the creation of a statistical system to quantify environmental impact at all levels; the revision of international agreements to make them subject to the climate priority. In this respect, I welcome the vote of the Dutch Parliament, which yesterday put a stop to the Treaty between the European Union and the Mercosur countries. We have all these elements in common. But I don't want to hide our questions. In our view, the role of parliamentarians cannot be reduced to intentions. Our responsibility is to propose clear actions and policies. We Socialist Members are committed to making proposals that will produce tangible effects in the lives of our fellow citizens. For years, we have been working and proposing, with regard to the agricultural and food model, advances against food waste; we propose advances to develop rail and travel with clean vehicles; We also propose what we call a "climate premium"...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u73	We offer it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u74	...for the thermal renovation of the energy passory, these dwellings which cost so much daily to many French, because they are poorly isolated. Boris Vallaud, Jean-Louis Bricout and Dominique Potier have worked on a proposal aimed at the renovation of 760,000 housing units per year to bring 12 million French people out of energy poverty by 2030, with funding spread over time. That is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u75	Excellent proposal, but will we be heard?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u76	Our line, our method, our way of doing things, is rather that: to move forward always with precise and encrypted proposals, because that is what the French expect of us rather than the mere catalogue of our good intentions, were they generous. The French, I am convinced, are waiting for an enlightened path, a credible path, a marked path to take decisively the turn of the ecological and solidarity transition, with objectives they wish to take on, with means that are quantified and clear. It is not enough to say what we have for tomorrow or the day after – even if it is important, I recognise it. It is a question of saying what we are doing now, because it is now that the crisis is striking, that unemployment is now massively breaking down and that it is now that we must respond with ambition, but above all with concrete. [[Applause on the SOC and EDS benches]] Your motion for a resolution, I say very sincerely, is useful to the debate, but basically, I say so forcefully, it is credible solutions that we need to ensure that happy days do not turn into glamours without tomorrow. I will let Dominique Potier present our vote – suspense! We will remain faithful to our line, that of an assumed and realistic ecological and solidarity transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u77	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u78	This motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party is an opportunity to recall the IDU's commitment to an ecological and solidarity-based transition of our country and the European continent. Climate change, weather and pollution have no borders. Of course, we are on every bench in this assembly under the emotion caused by the great environmental and climate events. But a retreat and a long-term vision are needed to hope to govern calmly. I have read very carefully this motion for a resolution, which operates a simplistic division between an increasingly liberal, authoritarian and liberticide world and that of happy days. Our independent IDU group can only oppose this Manichean vision of our future. It is necessary to reaffirm that capitalism and liberalism have allowed the expansion of democracy and individual freedoms. It is the over-administered and anti-capitalist regimes that, yesterday and today, threaten freedoms, whether in Hong Kong or Taiwan. But freedoms have enabled technical and social progress, as free market and economic interdependence have brought peace to Europe, let us never forget. Of course, liberalism must be better regulated and regulated on certain aspects, on which I shall return. Nevertheless, according to the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the High Council for Climate, the commitments of the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement are largely insufficient to stabilize ongoing global warming. However, this agreement is not respected: even if global emissions were drastically reduced now, the inertia of the climate would cause very difficult changes for people, especially for their access to water. There are two priorities: to minimize greenhouse gas emissions and to adapt societies without delay to the consequences of climate change to increase their resilience. This motion for a resolution could have been used to discuss solutions, but its philosophy and numerous dogmatic proposals do not create the conditions for a calm debate on such an important issue. Conversely, the IDU and independent group had proposed numerous detailed measures against waste and plastic pollution, during the discussion of the text which became the law of 10 February 2020 on the fight against waste and the circular economy, in line with the Grenelle de l'environnement, of which Jean-Louis Borloo, whom I salute, was the prime contractor. I would like to highlight the work of our New Caledonian colleagues, who set in motion a complete release of single-use plastic by the end of the year. In the same way, we asked for more ambition for the energy renovation of buildings and housing during the debate on the law of 8 November 2019 on energy and climate. It is not enough to engage in incantations or to spend billions of euros, it is necessary to evaluate, control, and above all to correct. For example, a 2018 ADEME survey, the Ecological Transition Agency, indicates that 78% of the renovation work in individual homes did not allow these homes to change their energy class. We are not yet up to the stakes on this subject. If we want to change our model, we need to measure our development model differently. Today, a country's growth is judged only by its GDP. If we want to develop new growth, it is necessary to assess our development differently, adding additional criteria such as preservation of the environment, access to health and education, and equality between women and men, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u79	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u80	I was sensitive to the essay of liberal philosopher Gaspard Koenig, Ralentir, published during the confinement and which I strongly advise you. He rightly questions our functioning there, explaining that utilitarian liberalism has reached its limits and that perhaps we should try the other way, based on the individual's ability to define his own values at his own pace, by mixing self-fulfillment and collective experimentation. You see, ladies and gentlemen of the La France group, that we can be liberal, not be a caricature of the big bad wolf and put forward alternative proposals. The position of the IDU and independent group can be summed up as follows: for an ecological and solidarity-based transition assumed, but against a simplistic vision abolishing any debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u81	It's a little caricatural!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u82	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and MODEM groups]] We will not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u83	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u84	The economy slowed sharply, or even stopped in some areas, during confinement. Beyond the debate on the responsibility of human activity in the emergence of covid-19, this period highlighted its impact on the environment and biodiversity, as nitrogen dioxide emissions fell significantly. Over the past few weeks, we have seen the reflections on the future, the conditions for recovery and the means to meet the challenge of the energy and ecological transition. These initiatives include the work of the Citizen's Climate Convention – we look forward to its proposals and the follow-up that will be given to them. In the past, we have expressed our disappointment at the review of environmental legislation: small energy and climate legislation, the Mobility Orientation Act of December 24, 2019, known as LOM, the Waste Control and Circular Economy Act, ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, CETA, with Canada, and multi-year energy programming, the achievement of which remains uncertain. Beyond words, paradigm change must be embodied in clear political actions and choices. We are more in rhetoric than in changing the economic system, broadly based on growth, to dogma at all costs. Time is no longer on the record, but on decisive, structural and historical action. The Government also claims this inflection. We have of course heard the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition advocate a green revival. We have taken note of the desire of the Ministry of Economy and Finance to make France the first carbon-free economy in Europe. But the voluntarism of speeches contrasts with proposals whose ambition is not up to the stakes. Of course, the Government has set greening targets for those sectors with a support plan, but that is not enough. Only a massive green public investment plan would revive the economies affected by the coronavirus, while fighting climate change and keeping in mind the social imperative. Like the La France group, we believe that this plan should give priority to improving the energy performance of buildings. We say again: in the current framework, we will not achieve the objectives set. Three other levers need to be strengthened: the development of cleaner modes of transport, support for the production of renewable energy and the circular economy, of course. Like you, I am convinced that we must turn our backs on the linear economy – extract, manufacture, use and discard – born during the industrial revolution. We will change our model only if we have effective tools that take into account the real impact of production and consumption. This motion for a resolution calls for the development of a statistical system that integrates environmental impacts: in the discussion of the text on the fight against waste and the circular economy, we defended amendments aimed at developing extra-financial accounting. Nor will we be able to save more investment in biodiversity protection, a more effective fight against soil artificialisation and better support for farmers to achieve food self-sufficiency and to combat real estate speculation. Ecological reconstruction requires high financial resources, which will be mobilised through concerted action between the State, local and regional authorities, central banks and public financial institutions, in order to compensate for what the market alone cannot of course achieve. This is our main disagreement with the motion for a resolution: you argue that the state is necessarily the key to the ecological transition, while, deeply girdy, Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group are convinced that change must come from below, from the territories. Yes, it is up to the State to set the main objectives and to coordinate initiatives and initiatives with a territorial dimension. We are convinced of the leading role of local and regional authorities in changing the model: by taking advantage of their own characteristics and resources, they can lead to effective policies of adaptation to climate change, circular economy and food and energy autonomy on the right scale. It is essential to empower them to respond to the environmental imperative. But their capacity for action and innovation remains weak. We believe that they should be given greater flexibility through further decentralization and the granting of real powers of experimentation, differentiation and rule-making. If we look at key sectors with common sense and objectivity, decentralized systems are often, if not always, the most economically, socially and environmentally virtuous. Therefore, if we share your willingness to implement an ecological and solidarity-based transition, we refuse that its deployment is the result of state planning, far removed from the realities and needs of the territories. That is why the vast majority of the Liberties and Territories Group will abstain from this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u85	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u86	We stop everything and think about it. We are told that happiness is progress and that we must take a step forward: it is progress, but never happiness. So, let's take a step and try something else. If we were to step aside, we would see what we never see. Words that resonate, as if Gebe's Year 01 had already thought the next. We've seen what we never see, but where's the step aside? The pandemic is not a parenthesis that could be closed, because it says things about us that no one should ignore. The virus of covid -19 tells us about social and health inequalities, the flaws of capitalism and globalization exposed, the destruction of ecosystems, a world that is gradually sluggish before our eyes. We must not save the world before, we cannot make a model that makes profit take precedence over the general human interest, which impoverishes the social majority of the country to enrich until indecency a minority of very rich people, which leaves millions of people unemployed when others are forced to accept work in deplorable conditions and which obliges them to choose between eating and heating. The belief in the market's ability to solve everything is deadly, for it is the free market that has led to deindustrialisation, the shortage of medicines, the impossibility of producing enough masks, tests and respirators to protect the population. Karl Polanyi already wrote it seventy-five years ago about the 1929 crisis: "Our thesis is the idea that a market adjusting itself was purely utopian. Such an institution could not exist in a continuous manner without annihilating the human and natural substance of society, destroying man and transforming his environment into a desert." [[Caroline Fiat and Danièle Obono applaud]] The desert, that's what we're promised with you! You save the world from before when you increase the weekly working time to sixty hours, when you remove days of reduction of working time – RTT – and leave, when you call on companies to lower wages, when you bail out the banks of polluting companies without any social or ecological compensation. The shock we are going through offers a historic opportunity to reorient the fundamentals of our society. In the face of climate change and the extinction of species, we must guarantee the conditions for collective survival, as well as the possibility for everyone to benefit from dignified living and working conditions. Not only are ecosystems collapsing because of human activities, but our basic needs are no longer being met. The crisis was health, it is now economic and social. It is only a glimpse of ecological chaos and a general repetition. In three months, our country has registered an additional 1 million unemployed, while it already has 6 million people without jobs and 700000 young people are about to enter the labour market. What horizon are we going to offer them? What will their future be when you go straight into the wall by pure ideological stubbornness? The time has come to learn from the coronavirus and to collectively operate a huge step aside. The Universal Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights proclaims the right to work as one of the major principles of our society. The French Republic has failed in the historic task of giving everyone a job. The world before is based on structural unemployment and underemployment. The ecological and solidarity bifurcation that we call for of our wishes requires a mobilization of magnitude: millions of arms are required to effect the profound change in our ways of producing, consuming and exchanging; millions of arms justly available, anxious to put their technical skills, their reasoning power and their faculties at the service of the intellectual and physical effort of the nation. Leaving millions of people without work is unfair and absurd in view of the huge stakes ahead. Only thermal renovation sites could create 600,000 new jobs. Long-term unemployment is a human scourge, of which 14,000 people die every year. It is also an economic scourge, because it costs the state €43 billion a year, which could be used to create jobs. The question is how useful they are. The crisis of the coronavirus was revealing on this point: when society is shaken, what remains? Cashiers, caregivers, care workers and home helpers, who are the first to work, mostly women, and who ensure our dignity. These trades, devalued by neoliberal dogma, according to which everything that is unprofitable has no value, therefore no interest, are the essential trades of tomorrow. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is the whole social hierarchy of trades that needs to be rethought! Who is the most essential, the shareholder or the school life host? The delivery guy or the best manager? More than ever, the value of trades must be measured in terms of their usefulness for collective life, as well as their ability to care for humans and ecosystems. More than ever before, we must recognize as such the sphere of services which, to be non-marketers, nevertheless participate in the common good. If we want to reduce unemployment by promoting the creation of socially profitable and environmentally sustainable jobs, we must make the State the ultimate employer. No one's unemployable! The experience of the zero-long-term unemployed territories foreshadows a society in which the State guarantees jobs, especially those dedicated to the satisfaction of basic needs, producing effects immediately perceptible by the community; It draws the contours of the type of society we want to build collectively. Those who still believe that economic growth is the condition for the material improvement of a given society cannot ignore that it is inseparable from the irreversible degradation of our ecosystems, or that it does not say anything about the shortages that people suffer most – clean air, healthy food, decently paid and useful employment, decent housing. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We do not need a recovery plan, but an ecological and solidarity bifurcation, an urgent trade-off between the market and life. It is time to invent something else, and to lay the foundation for it now. That is the meaning of our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u87	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u88	I thank our colleagues in the La France Group for having included this motion for a resolution on our agenda. There are good ideas, as can be said frankly, such as setting minimum planning, improving the statistical system and revising free trade agreements. However, I will opt for abstention because I think it is a bit incantatory and very Manichaean. Here is an illustration of the great paradox of the present time. There has never been so much talk of ecology in several years; Yet we have never put our planet in such danger, and above all the women and men who inhabit it. We have never given up so much competence to the European Union, so-called to protect the environment in Europe; Yet it is in its heart that the lobbies are gradually destroying any defence capability of our nations against continents that have based their economic growth on the pollution of the planet. Never have words and deeds been so in contradiction! Thus, how can we deny that the production of nuclear electricity has enabled France to meet most of its international commitments on greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u90	I am always surprised that environmentalists are campaigning for the abandonment of a decarbonized energy, welcoming the choice of Germany, which, after closing its nuclear power plants, has been forced to reactivate its coal-fired power plants, whose emissions, by east wind, pollute our country – let alone those of Poland. We, members of Debout la France, propose to pursue a true ecological policy, which requires three ambitions. The first is to regain our sovereignty, in other words our democracy. Ms. Auconia cited the example of New Caledonia: if New Caledonia had been able to take measures prohibiting the import and use of single-use plastic bags, it was because New Caledonia was not subject, as an overseas territory, to certain European rules. We must therefore put an end to the European Union, whose functioning is in complete contradiction with the very idea of an ecological review of our public policies. This does not mean that we must abandon all European ideas, but, on the contrary, that we must return to a Europe of nations and concrete cooperation, where we will condition them to respect certain criteria agreed upon by our people and democracy. Talking about ecology by multiplying international treaties such as CETA or trade agreements with Mercosur, Vietnam and Mexico, passed in a soft way during the health crisis caused by the covid -19 pandemic, is to ignore any coherence. I am always very surprised to hear those who have signed the agreements concluded at European level on ecology. If we want our agriculture to produce locally, in short circuits, so that everyone knows what it consumes, we must break with the rules of the European Union, which does not mean breaking up with any European organisation, but building another, reconciling ecology and European cooperation. Our second ambition is to ensure that we give ourselves the means to carry out relocations. Half of France's greenhouse gas emissions come from imports. In short, we have given ourselves a good conscience, in Europe, by causing pollution in other continents; We lost our jobs there while endangering the planet. Unlike our colleagues in the La France group, I doubt that nationalizing everything is a solution, as collectivist states have not been models for environmental protection. Nevertheless, a satisfactory articulation must be found between planning – like the planning set up by General de Gaulle – and encouraging, so that economic actors may have an interest in producing in France. This implies adopting several provisions: the possibility – excluded by the European Union – of labelling of goods indicating the share of the product carried out in France; a decrease in conditional charges – we have repeatedly proposed to divide the corporate tax on reinvested profits on French soil by two; the allocation of 75% of the public order to companies producing in France; the launch of a major thermal insulation program – everyone is in favour, but never – conceived as a formidable lever for creating local jobs and reducing the energy bill of our citizens, which weighs heavily on their purchasing power. I could also mention agriculture, in particular the exemption from employers' charges for the employment of occasional French agricultural workers, which would solve the problem of posted workers. Third ambition: we will not be able to save the planet without trusting in research. I therefore conclude my remarks by referring to the need to launch the most essential research programmes, in particular to move to a new generation of non-waste thorium nuclear reactors, to develop a massive hydrogen transport plan, to genuinely apply the precautionary principle in the field of public health by looking at the serious dangers to which we may be exposed by Standard 5G, and to control the pharmaceutical industry, which has become an empire at the expense of the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u91	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u92	The few months that have passed have shaken our certainty by making us touch, in a concrete way, the potential effects of a climate and environmental crisis, through the play of a mirror effect between the health crisis and the climate crisis. Such a crisis would also upset the way we live, consume, meet, and generally behave. We know that the health crisis and the ecological crisis are partly correlated. However, one will not hunt the other. The urgency and need to build a more resilient French society remain. We place this at the heart of our economic recovery project. It remains to define how, to get out of incantation and beautiful words, to define together what we will keep and what we must put aside, and then how we will act in practice. In this regard, I am pleased that we share some findings and conclusions on this road.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u93	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u94	First of all, we all agree, capitalism, as it is, has clearly shown its limits. I have said it several times and I will continue to say it. For too long, profit has been the driving force behind exponential growth at the expense of men, know-how, resources and territories. The crisis that we are experiencing must be an opportunity to reshape an economic model that revolves around, after often giving the impression of walking on the head. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] This is how I approach this subject when I am in the Vaucluse, and it seems to me that we will continue to address it here, especially since the crisis has made it possible to take stock of what we are: a society where the health and safety of citizens prevails over economic reasons. The President of the Republic confirmed this, deciding to confine the population. For the first time in the history of humanity – I am replying to Mrs Panot here – many governments have clearly arbitrated between economics and the safeguarding of human life. Their arbitration has been clear and clear: human life passes before the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u95	We can imagine the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u96	That's why we decided to confine ourselves. We can also take stock of what we no longer want – an overproduction economy based exclusively on a logic of cost reduction, putting multiple pressures on the planet's resources – and what we are capable of – to produce, consume and live differently, as did individuals, businesses and states in the urgency of the health crisis. New habits arise: to consume local, to buy French, to produce in France – all things considered impossible for so many years and which have nevertheless occurred. The Government is committed to economic recovery – I assume this term – because at the basic level, there are the men to whom employment is needed. Our method is to place the ecological transition in its heart. The Minister of Economy and Finance reminded the Government at the last question session that we want to transform our economic model so that it is decarbonized and environmentally friendly. We share a second observation that social justice is the very condition of ecological progress. The transformation of our country means leaving no one behind. Without social justice, no ecological transition! We must place man – rather than some abstractions that I would like to quote, such as "the planet" or "nature" – at the heart of the search for harmony with what surrounds him. We share a third essential point: we must enter a new age of industrial employment. The health crisis has revealed our dependence on disposables, even though our production capacities are not infinite, and the materials present in France could be recycled, making it a valuable asset. Ladies and gentlemen, you have decided to vote against the provisions put forward for this purpose. So you do not share this view. You did not wish to commit yourself further to the fight against waste. But we need to move from an economy based on labour productivity to an economy based on labour productivity. We must re-industrialize our territories and consider, at the strategic level, a new way of producing in France, at least for certain industries. Moreover, a new industrial revolution is needed, in order to reconcile three strong aspirations of the French: sovereignty, ecology and the economy. That is why the President of the Republic has spared no effort to secure the pooling of the European debt to the tune of 750 billion euros. In this case, Europe has proved that it can reinvent itself in the midst of a crisis, and offer very concrete solutions to citizens wherever they live. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party, your only goal, in fine, is to exist politically by artificially perpetuating a deadly duopoly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u97	Go tell that to all the associations we auditioned!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u98	What you want above all is not to do: it is much more comfortable to gargarise yourself with great words at a stand! Therefore, the debate is limited to the definition of "what", which does not allow us to address the question of "how". What you are proposing is not a project, but a new French containment program!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u99	Containment's up to your head!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u100	As we gradually emerge from the health crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic, the public debate on ecology is caught between two caricatural discourses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u101	You're the caricatural one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u102	Thus, there would be the followers of the "all right now" and the supporters of the "we'll see later."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u103	That's exactly what you're doing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u104	Comfortable cleavage, but too simple! It persists all the more as you make sure that no voice is raised to contest it. Thus, everyone preserves their intellectual and political annuities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u105	That doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u106	This ideological duopoly hinders the implementation of the ecological transition. You place the French in the death trap of this unique alternative. Far from proposing a program to overturn the table, you put your old moons back on the table! This is quite the opposite of an action programme capable of proposing to the French the transformations they expect, and above all of a programme of reconstruction commensurate with reality. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In concrete terms, what to do? How to enter the "how"? There is a need to develop a system based on improved resource management to minimize waste. There is also a need to ensure that industrial processes are more efficient and competitive than they are. That is precisely what you are opposed to, as you have opposed the bill on the fight against waste and the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u107	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u108	It is also a question of establishing a production system that is more virtuous, with products made to last, to be reused, to be ultimately recycled; A system of production, too, which is anchored in the territories, so that employment is available everywhere, for all, and that it makes sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u109	Why do you oppose the bill to create a public drug hub, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u110	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] We all have the right to a meaningful job.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u111	Isn't that caricatural?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u112	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Let the Secretary of State speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u113	[[Long exclamations on the benches of the FI group]] Following this method is also a response to the economic crisis, in a very concrete way: our method is to create economic value throughout our territory, protecting our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u114	You will be able to speak in explanation of vote, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u115	Let us take a concrete example. Waste is by nature a locally produced resource: collection, sorting, recycling are employment opportunities in our territories. There is also a way to better preserve our resources. Instead of calling this preservation of your wishes, let us act concretely! If there is something that this crisis has shown us, it is that biodiversity and climate are extremely linked...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u116	We knew that before the crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u117	...and our economic systems are destroying both. Let's get together around the table and work so that, throughout the territories, we can build bridges between economics and ecology. (Applause from several banks of the LaREM Group.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u118	What about the free trade agreements?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u119	Following this method is finally a response to the social crisis, because it allows jobs to be created everywhere that make sense. One ton of recycled waste creates ten times more jobs than one ton of buried waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u120	Let us produce waste in mass!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u121	I know you don't agree, but that's the reality! And these jobs are of all types, the most qualified as that of the engineer at least qualified as that of the collector. The third answer is that we must provide to the ecological crisis; Our method is intrinsically respectful of the resources of the planet. We have set ourselves a target of 100% recycled plastic for 2025: in terms of CO emissions, this is the equivalent of the closure of our four coal-fired plants. That's for the "how"! Our method allows the French to get out of the political confinement in which you seek to maintain them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u122	The covid didn't fix you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u123	Let's produce more waste!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u124	Your happy days, then, could only be replaced by disillusioning tomorrows.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u125	Not to mention the nuclear winter!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u126	What you propose would inevitably lead to resignation. But in terms of ecological transition, there is nothing worse than resignation, which nourishes cynicism, which hinders action and leads to the power of populism, and in particular ecological populism. This is a debate that we have already had. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM, IDU-I, Active ens and LT groups]] The Government is obviously opposed to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u127	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u128	I have heard the words of the majority, which are not caricatural at all. How proud of their action, and how modest! You referred to the circular economy law, Madam Secretary of State; I call it "tough law." Its objective is to produce more and more waste in order to make it an economic resource.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u129	But no, it's the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u130	This is a beautiful ecological project, which looks like you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u131	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u132	You are also very proud of the hydrocarbon law, which pushes the end of oil extraction to 2060 for new permits. And you allow megamines in Guyana... As for the railway pact, it authorises the cut-off sale of the SNCF, which should, however, be at the forefront of the ecological transition. This is for caricature – an exercise of which you are specialists. Of which act. You also tell us that we need'reasoned', 'green' growth, and that alternative indicators to GDP are only lure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u133	She said the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u134	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Indeed, you are not able to think of your happiness, your well-being, other than the endless and unlimited accumulation of material goods to the detriment of the entire population. We need to draw another path for the country. I say this to Comrade Guillaume Garot: we too have solutions, and they are all credible. They must be applied immediately: we must not only take the start, but also achieve its goal; and it is indeed a point of arrival that this text describes. Many of the solutions that we are advocating were considered farfetched two months ago, and you were forced to acknowledge that not only were they realistic, but that it was urgent to use them. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote for this motion for a resolution, which sets out a clear, useful path for all, useful to the general interest, useful to humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u135	Mr Jean-Luc Fugit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u136	Jean-Charles Colas-Roy recalled that our convergences of views are real: some observations are very widely shared in this House. But we regret that the La France group is denying all the work that our assembly has done over the past three years, in connection with the Government. It is intellectually and politically serious to erase the progress achieved in this way. Of course, we must go further; But we must not distort the truth of what has been done, of what has been committed. Above all, we see a major divergence in your dogmatic or even simplistic vision of ecology.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u137	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u138	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] Yes to a pragmatic ecology and a new alliance between ecology and economy; No to the punitive and radical ecology of the far left that you propose. The Group of the European People's Party will vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u139	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u140	We all agree: the climate emergency is imperative for our society. In the face of this, we must be effective; And that's where we diverge. You propose the decline, i.e. less goods, less services, less jobs, more unemployment, less purchasing power...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u141	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u142	... and less value added. Value added is not a big word: it is the cake that we make together to be able to redistribute it afterwards; That is what makes solidarity possible. So you also offer less solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u143	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u144	We don't want that model. On the contrary, we want a green, sustainable, controlled growth that respects people by relying on science and know-how. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] The Republican Group will vote against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u145	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u146	Dear colleagues of the La France group, you have been on the same line since the beginning of the legislature...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u147	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u148	It's all to their honour: not everyone has been on the same line since the beginning of the mandate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u149	... that of posture and caricature. The French have been sensitive to the idea of ecology for some time, and Mr. Mélenchon found it good, some time ago, to get into this breach.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u150	Leave me alone, little bell! You don't know anything about it! You didn't read anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u151	[[Ms. Danièle Obono protested very strongly]] So you go, but with proposals that are bad, because they are most of the time not realistic. You know that, by the way, but you still make your honey.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u152	Mrs. Obono, please...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u153	Mrs. Obono, listen to me, please! Almost two years ago, in the face of the climate emergency, the urgency of the transition, more than 170 Members of Parliament decided to work together and founded a collective, "Accelerons".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u154	But we have to slow down!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u155	"Let's accelerate" the transition, Mr. Prud'homme! [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Only one group refused to work with this collective: it's yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u156	Absolutely, without taking a position against CETA, we are not here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u157	Do you really want to change? No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u158	You didn't take a stand on CETA!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u159	You want to be able to continue to do only politics. Yet this group, from the right to the socialists, negotiated with the cabinets; The MODEM Group has defended texts and amendments that have made progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u160	What exactly did you speed up?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u161	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Get out of your posture and join us to work seriously!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u162	It is not respectful to make an explanation of vote without listening to the presentation of the proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u163	I was in my office!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u164	Mrs. Obono, what a morning energy! Take care, it's gonna be a long day... Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u165	It was in 2017; a book appeared, which you all read, I'm sure: What is the left? Twenty very diverse authors, from Martin Hirsch to Jean-Luc Mélenchon, answered this question. In this panoramic book, it was not Martin Hirsch's or Jean-Luc Mélenchon's contribution that impressed me the most: it was Erri De Luca's. "The end justifies the means... I have the experience of the opposite: the way in which one pursues one's own ideals, its programs, its lifestyle, decides whether the end is worthy to be realized. Sobriety, respect are the elements that justify the goal to be achieved. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u166	The end never justifies the means, never!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u167	We do not diverge, dear Danièle Obono, on the objectives that you draw: there is a real risk of collapse, and we must radically change the model of development and political choices. On the other hand, we look at how we can achieve this: the horizon for us is not apocalyptic, as the Republicans say; Nor is the future in the small steps adequately described by the majority. The future lies in a process of transformation that cannot caricatureally oppose the state and capitalism. That would ignore the diversity of society and its ability to transform! Our global interdependence can be translated into a European public power. I also mean the strength of the territories, but also of the company, in this transformation of the world. You deny other actors that the state can intervene. On the contrary, we Socialists, as a force of proposal for the future ecological transition, affirm the power of the enterprise, of Europe, of the territories, of the individuals, of the people who join together, in a cooperative way, to transform the world. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] It is these new links between public power and society that will enable us to move forward. Without having been able to amend the motion for a resolution to describe this power of society, we shall abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u168	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u169	I once again welcome the work of Danièle Obono, who is an opportunity for all of us to express our interest in this topic of the environment, but also our commitment to the idea of ecological and energy transition, which is essential for our society, in France and in Europe. However, we refuse to allow ourselves to be imposed a closed alternative and some vague ideas. The IDU and independent group will therefore vote against this motion for a resolution. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Jean-Marie Sermier said, the climate emergency is there. I would like us in this House to stop politicizing ecology: we need to green politics instead.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u170	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u171	I do not want to be presumptuous, but in the context of the health, economic and social cataclysm that we are experiencing, if there is one subject on which I think it would be preferable to seek convergence, it is indeed that of the ecological transition, of the change of model. Whatever the opinions of the groups to which we belong, we are all constrained by three needs: a profound and radical change – no question of a change to a small week, that has been said – the search for convergence in the face of the shock that is coming, beyond the electoral deadlines; institutional and fiscal reforms, around the notions of responsibility, competence and intervention, in order to strike a balance between the state and the communities in accompanying them. France's motion for a resolution contains many positive points, including the priority given to the energy efficiency of buildings or the provisions on extra-financial accounting, which deserve to be taken up. Today we are witnessing a cleavage debate that does not seem to me to meet the expectations of our fellow citizens, whose anxiety about the economic and social future of our country beyond the fine days reached at the heights. The subject should be discussed in greater depth at the beginning of the year. The Liberties and Territories Group will abstain on the motion for a resolution on governance grounds. We believe that the territories will have an essential operational role to play – common sense dictates it. In this area, more needs to be done than the Government had proposed in the Law on Combating Waste and Circular Economy; I do not go back to the amendments in favour of the territorial adaptation that the island elected representatives had tabled. We will not be able to save a further appointment on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u172	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u173	Without philosophy, I would like to recall that the quest for happiness has three dimensions. Two of them were damaged during the period and continue to be a little mistreated: the relational dimension, due to physical distancing, and the emotional dimension. Today, we must not cling to the third dimension that can contribute to happiness, the material dimension. In this respect, the motion for a resolution is quite interesting. We all want to know happy days, Mrs. Obono. I do not repeat what I said in the general discussion. The political values that you put forward are at the heart of the new group Ecology Democracy Solidarity. We adhere to the objective you are seeking, but probably not to the means you propose to achieve it in the text of the resolution. Therefore, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u174	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u175	As you know, the Conference of Presidents has recommended that speakers speak from their bench. I am not opposed to some favouring the rostrum, but I invite you to take this recommendation as far as possible into account for this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u176	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Alexis Corbière and others to cap bank charges (No 2599, 2732).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u177	Mr Alexis Corbière, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u178	Go on, Corbière, get them to go back to their throats!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u179	I want to bring the voices of millions of our fellow citizens to this rostrum. I want to give them a name and a face, so you can understand that this is not just an accounting reality. I make myself the voice carrier of Isabelle, thirty-five years old, a single mother of a child, child-care assistant, who pays monthly 150 euros in bank incident charges, and 1680 euros at the end of the year; de Laëtitia, forty-two years old, married, a child, employed in an SME, who pays 170 euros per month of expenses, i.e. 2000 euros per year; from Fatima, twenty-nine years old, separated, territorial official, 200 euros monthly fee, 2400 at the end of the year; but also, among the self-employed, Xavier, manager of a TPE in metallurgy, 230 euros monthly fee, 2400 at the end of the year; Ahmed, unemployed restaurant owner, 660 euros per month, 8000 euros per year. That's the reality! Today, it affects nearly 6 million of our citizens. That is the subject that I have come to talk about today: the scandal of bank incident charges, this unwarranted theft. Bank incident charges, charged when a client's account is insufficiently provided, do not correspond to the normal remuneration of a financial service. It is a penalty, unnecessary for the client, or even worsens his difficulties. For banks, it is an unjustified source of income, maintained in the greatest opacity. When a bank rejects a payment or cheque, it does not provide a true banking service to the customer. It takes a unilateral decision to refuse credit and charges it. In the name of what? When you ask a trader or baker to credit you and he refuses, he does not make you pay for this refusal 15 euros! Yet that's what banks do! The banker pays everything: if he accepts a cheque from an overdraft account, he pays for agios; If he refuses to do so, he charges for an incident. We must put an end to this scandal. The relationship between the bank and the customer is uneven. The situation can't last any longer. Banks have become dependent on bank charges; they are "fresh bancairomanes"; They are "addicted." These represent about 30 per cent of their annual profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u180	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u181	According to UFC-Que Choosing, a figure that is not really contested by the banks, it is the amount of unfair puncture that many of our fellow citizens suffer. Pierre Moscovici, whose words you cannot put in doubt since he has just been appointed First President of the Court of Auditors, said in 2013: "No one knows that fees represent a significant part of the bank's income. It is not acceptable for the bank's economic model to be based on the vulnerability of some of our fellow citizens. " Even he pointed to an economic model based on bank charges and taking advantage of the vulnerability of our fellow citizens. In order to correct an unacceptable situation, the legislator has intervened on several occasions by setting limits on the amounts charged by banks. But these measures were partial and insufficient. The law has established ceilings for certain operations, such as rejection costs or intervention commissions, but the amounts, defined by decree, are too high. As a result, banks have been able to set rates that are far higher than the costs of incident management. No studies based on marginal cost or full cost for banks justify the current ceilings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u182	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u183	Intervention fee rates do not take into account the fact that they are managed almost automatically, by applying a pre-recorded scoring. Since 2013, as part of a bank inclusion policy, inspired by law on the one hand and at the initiative of banks on the other, specific ceilings have been introduced for the most modest customers, at the risk of stigmatizing them. The actual scope of these ceilings should be relativised. In the context of the specific offer, the customer is only entitled to credit cards with prior authorisation or to bank cheques. Under these conditions, acknowledge, it is not very difficult to avoid the costs of incidents. On the other hand, neither the current ceilings nor the measures targeting certain populations adequately protect against the phenomena of cascade of costs, which may result in hundreds of euros of extra costs for some payment incidents in a temporarily overdrafted account. This accelerates the vicious circle of debt of customers whose banks had not necessarily identified the situation of fragility. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mr. M的jid El Guerrab also applauds]] My bill is for everyone, not just clients in difficulty. Some colleagues in La République en march have been surprised that I want to cap bank charges even for the rich. Yes, because it's stealing and I disapprove of stealing, even if it's targeting the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u184	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u185	This is probably a point of disagreement between us. There is no justification for the cost of incidents that cost the bank a few cents and are charged 15 euros. Mr. Minister of Economy and Finance, thank you for your presence. In 2018, on the occasion of the conclusion of the agreement with the banks on the creation of the specific offer, which now concerns 1.1 million people, you said: "If we fail to achieve the desired results, we would draw the legislative consequences." Your goal was then that the 3.5 million people eligible for the specific offer could benefit from it. Two years later, it's a failure, Minister. Let me take you to the word: draw the legislative consequences! You will speak after me, and I will listen carefully, but please put an end to this situation in which you refuse to legislate and ask the banks to take action only for those who are experiencing such difficulties that banks can no longer pressurize them. That's why they are in favour of capping bank charges for these customers! They know that if they continue, they will end up before an over-indebtedness commission and pay nothing! I want broader, more generous, more universal measures. The abuse must stop, for everyone! This is the meaning of the bill: a law that capes, a law of the maximum – no more than 2 euros per transaction, no more than 20 euros per month, no more than 200 euros per year. This protection would be extended to all, including self-employed workers, micro-entrepreneurs, to these small employers whom I have met in preparing this text and which I do not forget, those whom the behaviour of banks puts in great difficulty. I have tabled many amendments to improve the text, in particular on the inclusion of agios, the monitoring of people in difficulty or the reimbursement of the costs for multiple rejections of the same operation. If you adopt it, the law will protect everyone; it will remove mechanical charges that make the customer profitable in the short term; it will put an end to the glaring inequalities in the application of commercial discounts, the extirpations that take priority advantage of customers with sufficient financial space to negotiate with their bank. This is the paradox: when you're rich, even if you're out of sight, the bank is talking to you because it doesn't want you to leave it, it's making you out of it and you don't pay the costs. Of course, the poorest cannot negotiate with the banks in this way. The vicious circle must therefore be broken: since the revenues derived from bank charges will be severely limited by law, banks will be encouraged to prevent incidents in order to prevent their management costs from exceeding the capped amounts. This global reorientation of the functioning of banks is the best guarantee that they will fulfil their commitments to better support people in difficulty. In considering the bill in committee, I regret that the majority groups rejected all the provisions and improvements put forward on the pretext that it was no longer Parliament's responsibility to intervene on the matter. I confess that I am amazed by this conception of the role of the parliamentarian who refuses to act, waits for the Government to do so by reaching agreements with the banks and is there only to request reports to verify compliance with the commitments made, which do not give rise to sanctions in case of non-compliance. This is not my conception of the role of the legislator! It is time to act by law. It is not necessarily contradictory to the decree that you will present to us at a later date. Let us make a law and act quickly by decree. But the law that sets clear and equal rules for all, that puts back to the place what is backwards, that forbids the improper payment of a service that cannot be refused, is the whole issue of our discussion. So far, the Government has refused to do so: it has removed an amendment adopted by the Senate, it has opposed our proposals to the National Assembly; But I believe that it is now time to take action, in particular because of the crisis opened by the epidemic of covid-19. This has not escaped you, Minister, ten associations are calling you this morning, among them Emmaus, Caritas, UFC-Que Choosing as well as trade union organisations. Finally, they ask you to take a major step in this area. You can't get away with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u186	I will listen carefully to your intervention. I really hope you won't repeat, as you did two years ago: "We've solved the problem! " When I spoke here on the subject, your colleague Mrs Pannier-Runnacher replied: "You are wrong, the problem has been solved since 2018! "
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u187	We must conclude, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u188	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] But he's not! It is time to act by law to restore justice. That is the meaning of my bill. I sincerely hope, on behalf of the 8 million French people who are receiving these bank charges, that it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u189	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u190	Economic crises do not all have the same causes, but they are often the same consequences, especially the rise of inequalities. This crisis will bring the same set of bankruptcies, rising unemployment and risks of increasing inequalities as the others – in France, between European countries and among all nations. We must all be aware of this challenge and the need to face it. Since 2017, our majority has been able to show that they are committed to reducing these inequalities by pursuing a policy aimed not at a part of the French, but at all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u191	What a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u192	Let's move on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u193	We have taken steps to support the most fragile, by increasing the amount of the minimum old age, the allowance for adults with disabilities, the energy check and the activity premium. To follow the thread of this quinquennium, which is the fair remuneration of labour and the best association of capital and labour, we have introduced the bill on the growth and transformation of enterprises, the so-called "CAPTE", voted very broadly in this Chamber, which marks one of the most important advances of the last decades in terms of interest and participation, with the abolition of the 20% tax on the self-interest and the development of employee share ownership. We are determined to continue in this direction, and even with greater vigour in the face of the economic crisis that we are experiencing. I am thinking of the payment, decided a few weeks ago, of an aid of 200 euros, which will concern 800,000 precarious young people; the €150 premium for each person eligible for personalized housing assistance – APL; or to the simplification of the arrangements for the conclusion of the agreements of interest, since small enterprises can now conclude them without even having to consult their employees, in order to go faster and to pay the interest more quickly. I want to say that the best answer to inequalities – I think you will all share this point of view – is job protection, job support and job creation in the years to come. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The best way to combat inequalities is to keep our line from the beginning of the quinquennium: work for all, and well-paid for all French people. This global framework does not prohibit dealing with a number of inequalities, injustices, situations that may legitimately cause concern or even revolt among our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] The costs of bank incidents are part of – I share your diagnosis – issues on which we have seen unacceptable situations for almost three years. Some of the most vulnerable people were able to pay 300, 400 or 500 euros in bank incident charges per year, even though every month they are within 1 or 2 euros. That's not acceptable. We have therefore taken steps to cap these bank incident charges. But we must also take into account, on the other hand, the need to protect a number of jobs. There are no good jobs in certain sectors of activity and bad jobs in the areas of banking and insurance: the jobs, whatever they may be, are good for the French and the French economy, and must be defended by all possible measures. I recall that 360,000 French people are working in the banking sector today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u194	It's not because of the expense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u195	Banking agents, shopkeepers provide the government-guaranteed loans that businesses need: we must be aware of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u196	Do you mean they live from looting?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u197	I share the observation and the conviction that there is a need for an answer. That being said, I consider that we have already taken a number of steps, and I am not convinced that we need to go through legislation. So I want to propose another way. The few points of divergence that separate us – it is the interest of democratic debate, it allows us to formulate them calmly – relate both to the scope of the measures you propose and to your method. With regard to the scope, proposing a global ceiling for all audiences, including the most fortunate, those who have no problems at the end of the month, is costly for banks and dangerous for employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u198	They don't have a fee!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u199	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] I do not think that the most favoured households need this kind of protection. This is one of the paradoxes of political life: France insoumise proposes to protect the incomes of the most wealthy...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u200	Don't exaggerate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u201	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] ... when we propose to stick to the most fragile. Nothing is free in the decisions you propose. Taking money from the players of the banks, their employees and their employees to protect the richest households in France does not correspond to our political philosophy, nor to our vision of the economy! Our second point of disagreement is the method. I believe that the one we have defended with the President of the Republic and this majority, which is based on the voluntary commitment of the banks, has produced measurable results, which show that we are moving in the right direction. I would like to recall the arrangements that we have put in place for the past three years, starting in September 2018, in recognition of the role that you and the other members of the opposition have played in alerting us to these issues. You have found in this Chamber, on the benches of an opposition group such as the Republicans, as well as on those of the majority, whether it is the MODEM or the Republic on the move, a careful listening, which has led us to evolve – this is indeed the interest of democratic debate. We did not remain deaf to the appeals of the associations and the opposition on the need to take into account the issue of bank incident charges. As early as September 2018, we entered into an agreement with the banking sector to cap incident charges at 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year for the most fragile customers, those who are the subject of the specific offer; At the time, they were a little over 300,000. Alerted by you, the associations and parliamentarians of the majority, I brought together the players of the French Banking Federation for lengthy negotiations, telling them, first, that the number of clients eligible for the specific offer was insufficient, and second, that there was a need for a more ambitious cap. We got a win on both points. Nearly 500,000 people are now eligible for the specific offer, compared to just over 300,000 in 2018. A ceiling for bank incident charges of €20 per month and €200 per year has been introduced – previously these publics could pay up to €500 or €600 per year. The work undertaken has therefore had concrete results for the most vulnerable audiences, thanks to these discussions and the commitments made by the French Banking Federation. A second step was taken in December 2018. We have seen – here too, I very much agree that a change is necessary – that the most fragile audiences, those with the most modest incomes, were not the only ones concerned and that the French faced difficult situations because of the costs of bank incidents were not in hundreds of thousands, but in millions. We have therefore initiated a second session of discussions with the banks, led by the President of the Republic himself. He called the representatives of the banks to ask them to make commitments not only for the most fragile audiences, but also for the millions of French people who are likely to be confronted, as you have pointed out, with problems of banking incidents every month. The banks then committed to cap the costs of bank incidents at 25 euros per month and 300 euros per year...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u202	Not for everyone, you know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u203	... for all fragile customers, with a difficult financial situation, and not just those eligible for the specific offer. The third stage is February 2020. You see that since 2017, we have consistently addressed this issue and improved our response, trying to reduce the amount of bank incident charges, successfully; to expand the number of holders of the specific offer, with success; and to increase the transparency of banks, also successfully. I'm not saying everything is perfect; I will therefore propose solutions to improve the situation. In February 2020, we asked large companies and obtained from them the deployment, by the end of 2021, of a solution for automatic identification of unsuccessful samples. If it seems very technical, the stakes are extremely concrete, and for the question that interests you – sincerely, I know – this represents a major step forward. Suppose that after a purchase in a large distribution sign, you could not pay the bill. Currently, it can be resubmitted to the bank once, twice or three times, even if it has already been settled. In the absence of identification of the invoice, incident charges for non-payment may continue to be levied even if the client has paid for them, which penalizes them. The agreement we have reached with large companies and banks will help to avoid the repeated application of costs related to a unsuccessful levy, thanks to the immediate identification of the invoice. Some 3 million French people benefited from the €25 cap on bank incident charges. This has led to a reduction in their amount for 1 million of them. In three years, we have therefore made considerable progress on the issue of bank incident charges and unpaid invoices and the specific offer. Is that enough? Certainly not. We still need to move forward, to better protect banks' most fragile customers. In any case, I have learned a lesson from our work over the past three years: our method has produced results, and no one can say that the measures taken have not been useful and effective. They have protected millions of French, allowed to include an additional 200,000 people in the specific offer and to speed up the resolution of certain difficulties. When the method is good, it is better to stick to it and try to strengthen it rather than change it. The Government's proposal, which was established in a dialogue with the majority deputies, which I thank, is to protect banks' most fragile clients faster, longer and transparently. It is this commitment that we want to make in front of you this morning. We propose first of all to clarify the definition of "fragile customers", which is now the subject of a vagueness on which banks can obviously play, with some charging higher costs for bank incidents than others. This definition, which we want to propose to you this morning, will allow the application of the ceiling on bank charges to 25 euros per month, so that it will not affect 500,000 people, but more than 3 million. It is therefore a major commitment. We propose that from five banking incidents in a month, a customer be considered fragile for a period of three months, during which they will benefit from protections and this fee cap. Today, what's the situation? There is no definition of the number of incidents; Therefore, each bank can freely determine who is entitled to the cap and who does not benefit from it. For our part, we intend to set, in a regulatory way, five per month, the number of incidents from which we can benefit from the ceiling of 25 euros per month, or 300 euros per year, which had been proposed by the President of the Republic. All this will allow clients in difficulty to benefit more quickly from the effects of the banking incident cap, which is now set at three months. Currently, there is no definition of duration either: it is not known whether the cap applies for one week, two weeks, one month, two months or three months; there is the greatest uncertainty for customers. We want to introduce clarity, certainty and protection where there is uncertainty and difference between banks. The third development we propose is that people in over-indebtedness will be considered fragile throughout the duration of the registration of credit-reimbursement incidents to individuals, which will provide additional protection. According to our estimates, all these developments will lead to an increase of at least 15% in the number of our citizens benefiting from the ceiling on bank incident charges. They will make it possible to harmonise the rules applied by banks to their customers, preventing one from playing on differences between banks. All right, you will tell me, these orientations are strong, they clarify and protect customers more, but what guarantees that they will be respected? And why don't you go through the law? We do not go through the law because, I repeat, the path we have chosen, that of voluntary engagement, has produced results. In addition, we propose to increase transparency by specifying to the public, to the French, which banks play the game and which banks do not play it. In a system as competitive as the French banking system, I think it will be just as effective as a legislative provision. I am aware of the banks' reluctance to do so, but I believe that it is an effective means of ensuring the effectiveness of the provisions that we propose to you. Thus, we propose to consolidate these commitments by including them in the charter for banking inclusion and the prevention of over-indebtedness, which is approved by order of the Minister of Economy and Finance. We propose to update the Charter, which has not been updated since 2014. In this way, we will provide a document that will link the banks and summarize all the actions taken in favour of controlling the costs of bank incidents. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In the course of July, the Bank of France, which is the supervisory authority of the French banking system, will report on the checks carried out to ensure compliance with the commitments contained in this written charter published by order of the Minister of Economy and Finance. The Bank of France will publish in its entirety the list of institutions that do not comply with their commitments regarding the capping of bank incident charges. In other words, we are going to introduce a "name and shame" for the capping of bank incident charges by French banks. Thank you, Mr Corbière, for putting this bill on the agenda. It is important that we deal with this subject, which concerns the daily lives of millions of our compatriots; continued progress in capping bank incident charges is essential. It is all the more urgent that we are at the heart of an economic crisis such as France has not experienced since the Second World War. However, the path we have chosen will be just as effective as the path you are proposing, and we will avoid the negative effects of a global cap: if the richest people also benefit from it, it could be at the expense of the hundreds of thousands of jobs in the French banking sector. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We suggest that you go further; we offer you a more effective cap; We offer you a stronger protection of all French depositors; and to make all this effective, we propose that you show the utmost transparency by introducing, for the first time in our country, a "name and shame" of banks that do not comply with their commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u204	In the general debate, Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u205	The Finance Committee recently heard from the President of the French Banking Federation, Mr Oudea. In the face of our questions and my indignation about the subject that we are dealing with, he reacted as follows: "Personally, I am always very surprised that, for bank charges, 25 euros, with an advisor who is there and who knows how to answer, are considered very high in relation to the telephone bill that I pay – without speaking specifically to someone. » The rhetorical process, which you have taken up a little bit, Minister, is clever but absurd. First, Mr.Oudea forgets that banks do not do us a service in managing our money: they use it, and even from that money they generate profits. Secondly, his remarks conceal the fact that not everyone currently benefits so much from this EUR 25 limit. According to a study carried out by the magazine 60 million consumers, all banks, with the exception of the Bank Postale, charge the maximum bank incident charges per transaction; In other words, the ceiling of 25 euros is broken. Above all, Mr.Oudea wants us to believe that the price of certain things – in this case, that of telephone services, but why not that of the hairdresser or the kilo of asparagus! – would justify the astronomical amount of bank charges faced by more and more people in our country, and not just the poorest. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, when you are poor, everything is too expensive. The revenues we are talking about are estimated at 6.5 billion euros, of which 4.9 billion – you have of course – are included in the 23 billion net profits realized by all French banks. The least we can say is that these are not ridiculous amounts for banks! I therefore affirm that the sums raised are not only absurd and unjust, but are based on nightmare sacrifices imposed on a growing number of our fellow citizens on a daily basis. For some, this ceiling of 25 euros – which is not even applied everywhere and to everyone – seems to represent a derisory sum, to the point of giving a smile. For others, and these others are growing, this amount represents the family's food costs for the week or even the month. I solemnly tell you, in the 93rd, the department of the Seine-Saint-Denis where the rapporteur and I are elected, the crisis struck so hard that the prefect himself spoke of food risk and feared the "riots of hunger". Among the testimonies that La France insoumée collected during the period – the rapporteur mentioned several – is that of an association from which a mother of the family admitted to deprive herself of eating in order to feed her children. I assure you that to live, this lady, like many others, is every month not to the nearest 25 euros, but to the nearest cent of euro. It is in this context, as the minister has reminded me, that I am speaking before you, ladies and gentlemen, and that you will have to speak in favour of or against the bill. What is this really about? It is a matter of stating, thanks to the text that you have in your hands, that 2 euros of bank charges per incident, 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year, is already enough, that this must be a maximum and that it must apply to everyone. It is a proposal of common sense and social progress; It is an absolute necessity, especially because of the social crisis that we are experiencing. I would like to hear that these incidents have a cost to the banks, but, I repeat, this is frankly derisory in terms of profits. In fact, the amounts invoiced are in no way proportionate or reasonable. In fact, many of the acts in question are invoiced on an automated basis and have a derisory cost compared to the amounts charged. For example, a debit rejection can be charged 20 euros to the customer, while its administrative processing costs only about 20 cents. Not only is this a net benefit a hundred times greater, but this benefit is nourished by the pain and difficulty of the poorest. Moreover, it is based on the violent and infantilizing myth that the poor and, more broadly, all those in difficulty should be paid for to understand. As if the galley was the result of a choice or simply a lack of will. This is a mortiferous logic. We may not overturn it with a slamming of fingers, but we can begin here today by limiting its indecent character, reducing injustice and insecurity. In the case of bank charges, punishing means annihilating. For this has a very concrete result: for users in financial vulnerability, the costs of banking and agios incidents represent on average an annual cost of 296 euros – it sometimes reaches several thousand euros! – compared with only 34 euros for the population as a whole. It's an endless spiral, a poverty trap. As a result of these bank charges, a poor person is at risk of becoming even poorer, to the point of being without housing or in absolutely catastrophic conditions, or even being excluded from all social life. The adage says you only lend to the rich. The reality is more cruel: to the rich, we lend in part money that is stinged to the poorest. You will note the paradox: the richer you are, the more banks apply low interest rates; The more poor you are, the more you have banking problems, the higher these interest rates, whether they are interest rates as such or the costs of bank incidents. The associations even speak of an "incident expense annuity". How, in any way, can we find reasonable that incidents of insecurity or poverty, by definition, may lead to the payment of such additional sums and that they are not even strictly and firmly limited by law? We want a law, minister, not a decree whose respect would depend, again, on the goodwill of the banks, even if you would put the name of those who do not honour their commitments. We want a law, because the measure must concern all French people. With grace, stop saying, demagogically, that we now want to favor the rich! I would like to know how many people in France, among the richest 1%, pay bank fees... By applying the new rule to only a few million French, you will ignore all the others, including those who, in the middle classes, may find themselves in difficulty precisely as a result of these banking incidents. The promises of the Government and those of the banks are not enough, hence the usefulness of our assembly and the interest of legislating for all, with republican equality to prevail throughout the country and, above all, for all banks, unconditionally. We can, we must decide here to impose constraints that have meaning and that are in the direction of the common good. We have already paid the price, in this Chamber – I remember, in particular, a text discussed not so long ago during a niche of the IDU group – of governmental instructions to reject a text of pure common sense on the grounds that it emanated from the opposition, the Government arguing that it was preparing a better text for later. In this case, it is a decree. The Government acknowledges that the problem persists – I was glad to hear you say so, Minister; I think this is largely due to our action and to the bill of my colleague Alexis Corbière. He recognizes it so well that he puts a bill in front of this bill. This decree is not enough, I told you, but it indicates that you are taking the situation into consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, you should not turn a blind eye to the proposal before you today. The Government recognizes the problem. For our part, we believe that it is by law that the legislator can decide new rules and impose them on banks; If they do not, they will not apply them or try to circumvent them. The way they have applied the ceiling of 25 euros has proved it, I have already shown it to you. All the more reason to take our proposal seriously and to the letter. Indeed, we cannot devote blind confidence to banks, many of which, as we know, continue to feed on poverty and dependence on their services. We have seen this again during the crisis: credit card charges have been increased for traders on the pretext that the ceiling for contactless payment has been raised. In addition, professionals have been excluded from the scope of the non-binding ceiling on bank charges, whereas it is just as necessary for many independents, artisans, traders and TPEs as for individuals. There is no reason why this should be the case; There is no reason not to change this rule. This is what we are proposing, especially since the self-employed have been particularly affected by the crisis and, therefore, the Solidarity Fund risks financing bank charges rather than their actual needs. It should not be necessary to ask who enters or leaves the most vulnerable or fragile category in order to apply such a simple and logical measure. No one should have to pay more than 2 euros per incident, 20 euros per month, 200 euros per year of all inclusive bank charges. You will recognize the more than reasonable nature of the bill we are presenting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u206	It is time to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u207	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This text is as simple as that, and would be much less complex to apply than trying to find out whether the person concerned is quite poor, which bank it is or to take into consideration what other criteria I do not know before deigning to do the charity of decent bank charges. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u208	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u209	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u210	First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues in France who are unsolicited about taking up the issue of banking insecurity, which affects thousands of our fellow citizens, and I welcome their work, which lays down a rational framework for the capping of bank charges. We, members of the Ecology, Democracy and Solidarity Group, deplore the fact that the proposal for a law on housekeepers which our colleague François Ruffin intended to defend here, within the framework of the niche of the group La France insoumise, has been withdrawn. Our group had succeeded in having several amendments adopted unanimously in committee to improve access to the right of these precarious workers. However, let us go back to this text on bank charges. I would have been happy to have spoken to you at some length about the insurance services and their failing role in this period of crisis. With regard to banking services, it is noted that, after some delays at the start-up, the banking networks have responded present concerning the allocation of the EMP, the State-guaranteed loan, the first and very important financial line opened by the Government and the Parliament in order to ensure a cash flow for enterprises of all sizes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u211	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u212	Business access to credit in general, beyond the particular context of the crisis, will need to be rapidly assessed. If banking services are therefore relatively effective for businesses, are they, ladies and gentlemen, for the less favoured individuals? I would tend to think that the rules should be enshrined in the law, because only it guarantees republican equality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u213	In fact, no – alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u214	I also believe that the economy must be regulated: the very recent crisis, with the shortages it has caused, has shown us. You have provided us, Mr.Minister, with the first figures on the number of beneficiaries of the specific banking offer for those who are said to be in financial fragility – which we thank you for. It would indeed be necessary to take stock of the effects of the agreement concluded in December 2018 under the authority of the President of the Republic with a view to capping bank charges at EUR 25 per month. We will need to be transparently informed about the implementation of these measures, in particular as to their scope and how each banking network applies them. That being the case, I think we could go further. Proposals are now on the table. This parliamentary debate is an opportunity for the Government to tell us which banking networks have made this effort. Regulating the banking sector is also, I would insist, Minister, reshaping those who voluntarily ignore regulation. To raise the issue of banks, including mutual banks, is to ask which ones have borne the efforts requested, it is to measure the gap between the large commercial banks, to the favoured clientele, and those who are obliged to recover or retain fragile customers. In this regard, I would like to pay special tribute to the Postal Bank, which holds this role and maintains the bank accounts of the most vulnerable people. Measures to control bank charges of this kind would help to combat inequalities between banking networks. I doubt that the GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon – who are now at the threshold of the banking market and have already started to provide banking services, have much pity on fragile customers. The question of regulation will therefore arise concerning the activity of non-territorial actors and, more broadly, of all those who offer banking services in France. That is why, Minister, we want a law on the subject. If we recognize that progress has been made, we believe that it must be made everywhere in the same way; The law guarantees this equal treatment. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS and FI groups. – Mrs ClaudiaRouaux also applauds]] These, ladies and gentlemen, are the few thoughts we wanted to bring to your attention. Members of the EDS Group welcome the aim of the drafters of the law and note that they have this time shown real pragmatism in these times of unprecedented social crisis. If we hear your commitments, Minister, regarding a future Order-in-Council and a future Charter, we would still see legislation as more secure. That is why we will support the initiative of our colleague Alexis Corbière and La France, and we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u215	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u216	In The Raisins of Anger, John Steinbeck draws a famous comparison between the bank and a monster. Like Frankenstein, the man would have created this monster that is the bank and would not be able to run it. Being aware of their weakness, men hate the actions of banks. The ambition of this bill is, however, to control the excesses of the banking system and to combat the hatred that exists against it. This ambition deserves special attention. We have therefore, as members of the Group of the European People's Party, studied this text independently. It appears first of all that the figures on which my friends of La France are based are old: the survey of the magazine 60 Million consumers showing that the poorest pay 296 euros per month of bank charges date from 2017; The same is true of the UNAF survey – the National Union of Family Associations – which found that 2.1% of the budget of modest households is spent on bank charges. However, in December 2018, an agreement was reached with the main banking networks: on the one hand, the banks committed themselves to reducing the costs of bank incidents for fragile customers; On the other hand, the public authorities – whom you represent, Minister – have committed themselves to monitoring the proper respect for the commitment of the banks and, if required, not to legislate on the subject. Institutions have accepted a ceiling of EUR 25 per month on bank incident charges for 3.3 million people in financial fragility. In-depth checks were carried out last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u217	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u218	The Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the CPRA, has thus controlled sixteen banking institutions covering 98% of fragile customers. As you pointed out, Minister, the first assessment of the implementation of these commitments is positive; bank charges were significantly reduced for 1 million customers who were in excess of the ceiling. Against banks that fail to comply with the commitments made, you are committed to using the "name and shame" procedure, or to "name and cover with shame." This flexible method of consultation seems to us the best suited to the regulation of the sector. If we want continued progress in this area, we believe that it is necessary to fulfil the commitments made during these negotiations. That is why we will propose several amendments aimed at increasing the regulation of the system. Personally, as a Member of Parliament for the French abroad, I would like to draw the Government's attention to the bank charges that our compatriots have to pay for international transfers, payments or withdrawals made abroad. I have tabled an amendment aimed at capping these costs; I would like the Government to make a commitment to support this cause in its future negotiations with financial institutions. I would also like to start a discussion on the right to a bank account, guaranteed by law, but often denied in practice to our compatriots living abroad. My group and I stress the need for further progress in reducing bank charges. The ceiling of EUR 25 per month remains very high for people with monthly incomes of EUR 500 or 600. Concertation work should continue; parliamentarians must be involved. We must legislate, in the near future, in order to establish the criteria of financial fragility: it is not up to the bankers to assess it arbitrarily. Its clear definition will allow the creation of a safeguard procedure that will prevent entry into the vicious circle of agios in addition to agios. We are also proposing, Mr.Minister, a parliamentary mission dedicated to the practices of banking institutions, with a view to providing a precise and quantified picture of the achievements that followed the 2018 agreement. The purpose of this task would be to initiate further consultations and to better involve Parliament in future decisions. The Action Together group supports the negotiations undertaken since 2018 by the Government: its position is constructive. However, the majority of its members will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u219	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u220	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u221	Small streams make big rivers, and banks have understood it perfectly. Of course, they have their preferred playground: their great maneuvers take place in the globalized capital markets, which daily stir up amounts to give the vertigo. The financial tsunamis they trigger regularly cause economic, social and environmental damage; They then present the bill to us. But what do you want? All this is also the source of profits that banks cannot resist. To secure these speculations at best, nothing is worth the concrete, the small accounts of the modest people. Banks rely on the small people's cariatide in particular. Our illustrious predecessor Victor Hugo had seen it right: they live and prosper "on the hagard peoples that poverty undermines,/ Feeding from their diet and eating their famine". Diet is the debt of the poorest. A UNAF study indicates that 6.5 billion euros are collected each year for incident costs, through a process as relentless as a watchmaking mechanism. This is a real pactole for banks: poverty is solid, a steady and assured return! This is a genuine private tax that banks have the right to raise. Households in difficulty receive an average of 40 bank charges per year, for an annual amount of around 300 euros. The bank watches: every overdraft, every delay, even minimal, deserves to be punished. An algorithm generates the mail or the reprimand email, punctures, and presses a little more on the head of the one who thought he could get it out of the water. I'm not even talking about credit card or account-keeping fees, which have been increasing in recent years, even though banks are cunning in turn to dematerialize their networks. Since the UNAF study, it is true that the Government has moved a little, especially under the pressure of yellow vests. An agreement has been reached to reduce the burden of these costs for the public in difficulty; they have been capped at 25 euros per month and 300 euros per year. According to the Government, 3.6 million people are expected to benefit from lower bank incident costs. Unfortunately, since the agreement is not normative or binding, the results are not on the table, as one might have suspected. According to a study conducted this time by UNAF and the magazine 60 million consumers at the end of 2019, 78% of bank bans and over-indebtednesses do not benefit from any cap, although they should automatically be entitled to it; 91% of low-income people who are aware of payment incidents do not have their fees capped at EUR 25 per month. [[Mrs Elsa Faucillon and Claudia Rouaux applaud]] Of course, Bruno Le Maire promises us new commitments: this is a good thing. But we consider that it is by force of law that we act effectively against the law of the strongest. What Republic do we live in? We legislate when it comes to the people; When it comes to banks, we are limited to incantations and suggestions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u222	Bravo! He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u223	Again, it's not the Republic. Restoring justice in the banking world will not be easy: everything is to be rethought. We must take power, put out the financial fire, and finally irrigate the real and sustainable economy. While waiting for this next world, it is already possible, as our friends of the group La France insoumée invite, to put by law a little order and justice in ours, so that it is no longer possible to make money on the distress of families. In this bill from La France, we also appreciate the stated ambition to cap the costs of incidents in all populations, especially for clients of banks in a professional capacity, such as artisans and self-entrepreneurs. Small businesses are often victims of banking accidents, but the recent period has unfortunately given us many examples. Finally, we appreciate the fact that this text is part of a process of regaining power over the banks, determining if these injustices are no longer to happen, whether money can be allocated to what is useful, whether we close the tap to anything that does not serve the common good. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In this sense, the proposed law raises in a rational and concrete way problems that are still not solved; First and foremost, it responds to the demand for social justice for citizens who are victims of abusive bank charges. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote without hesitation in its favour and invites our colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u224	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u225	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u226	On behalf of the La République on the move, I thank our colleague Alexis Corbière for the quality of his work and his approach, as well as for the interesting debate on very sensitive subjects. The committee's consideration of his bill resulted in rich and respectful exchanges around the issue of bank incident charges. In the end, we oppose this text for two reasons. The first concerns the method used; the second concerns the political approach adopted. I shall therefore organise my remarks from these two points. The law, i.e. coercion, is obviously a possible method of setting the bank's obligations with respect to incident charges. We can also opt for the contract, the voluntary commitment; The Government and the majority favour this rapid, effective and successful approach. Commitments were made in September and December 2018; They focused on limiting bank charges to EUR 20 per month and EUR 200 per year for recipients of a specific offer to vulnerable customers, to EUR 25 per month and EUR 300 per year for other vulnerable audiences. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Contrary to what I hear here and there, these commitments have been fulfilled. Banking is one of the most controlled: they have been controlled by the CPRA as well as by the DGCCRF, the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention. The Financial Sector Advisory Committee discussed this issue. There is a Bank Rate Observatory, a Bank Inclusion Observatory. Finally, MPs are not merely legislating: they control! A number of them are thus interested in the issue we are talking about; I will mention Philippe Chassating's work on banking inclusion, Nadia Hai's work on the business of banks or, in all modesty, my participation in the Financial Sector Advisory Committee, which brings together representatives of all the players in the sector, savers and households. Therefore, I repeat, the commitments made in 2018 have been fulfilled: regulators and supervisors attest to this. That is why we consider this method to be producing results. Of course, these results must be consolidated. But our method is not only effective: it has the advantage of being able to evolve and adapt to the economic situation. We have seen this at a time when the crisis was beginning to hit our compatriots: the public authorities have initiated new negotiations with the banks, with a view to obtaining, as the minister pointed out, that fragile customers should be regarded as such earlier and cease to be so later, thus benefiting longer from the advantages reserved for this category. Again, therefore, the contract is a proven method that allows rapid execution. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Same movements]] I come to my second point: we do not agree with your political approach, because it is to turn your back on the strategy of banking inclusion. You propose to generalize the cap on incident charges. Apart from the fact that it would also benefit the rich, this measure would take the opposite of the bank inclusion policy pursued since the Mauroy government, among others by Pierre Moscovici, who created the Observatory of Banking Inclusion. In fact, the associations you mentioned do not ask for anything like that. They were asking for what the minister proposed, and they got it. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will not vote in favour of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u227	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u228	This bill has the merit of highlighting a very real problem: the considerable amount of fees imposed by banks on their most fragile customers. It thus allows national representation to address an important issue. As traditional loans are no longer profitable enough for general banks, they try to catch up on services. The rates for banking services in France are the highest in Europe. There are 3.3 million French people in situations of financial fragility, sometimes threatened by the spiral of over-indebtedness, whose consequences are catastrophic for households. Standard fees are relatively constant and moderate; This is quite different for incident charges, i.e. charges applied when an account is insufficiently provided. Banks charge heavily for these incidents, mainly to low-income households, but also to self-employed workers and micro-entrepreneurs, who are particularly exposed to them, as witnessed during the health crisis. However, we are not starting from scratch in this area: progress has already been made. The Borloo Act, which establishes the right to housing, has already provided for a ceiling on charges for bank incidents. They are 30 euros for the rejection of a cheque of less than or equal to 50 euros, 50 euros for the rejection of a cheque of more than 50 euros, 20 euros for an incident due to another means of payment. Under the Law on the Regulation and Separation of Banking Activities of 26 July 2013, a double cap on fees per transaction per month is set at 8 euros per transaction and 80 euros per month. Finally, under an agreement concluded in 2018 between the State and the banking networks to reduce the impact ceiling for people in financial fragility, banking institutions have made three commitments: freezing the rate schedules for all our citizens, capping the costs of bank incidents for the 3.3 million people in financial fragility to 25 euros per month, capping the costs of bank incidents for the beneficiaries of the specific offer to 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year. If the results are not yet tangible, it is up to the state to press the banks by reminding them of their commitments. Minister, as you recalled, you committed to using the name and shame for banks that would not meet their commitments. We count on your diligence, which seems preferable to a repressive law that would prove to be counterproductive. There is a need to strengthen dialogue with banks on this issue. The priority is not to legislate once again, but to ensure that existing texts and agreements concluded are respected by strengthening controls and, where appropriate, increasing sanctions. On the pretext that some people don't play the game, you can't take the risk of coercing everyone. In addition, transparency of bank charges is a major issue that should be improved. It is essential to be able to verify the information available to bank customers regarding tariffs and to be readable, which is not always the case. Let us not forget, moreover, that prohibitions often lead to circumvention of the rule, which may cause the opposite effect of the intended purpose. This bill has the advantage of allowing us to debate an important subject this morning, but it could lead to banks excluding those of their customers for whom the constraints become too strong, in this case the most fragile. Finally, we can hope that the recent competition from so-called neo-banks, or online banks, which do not charge any fees, or minimal fees, will help stabilize or eventually reduce the volume of bank charges throughout the market. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] For these reasons, the Republican MPs will not vote for this bill whose purpose they share but not the method.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u229	Short and effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u230	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u231	I, too, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on a fundamental subject because the health emergency is now a social emergency. We share, of course, the objective of protecting fragile households and reducing charges for bank incidents that could weigh even more heavily on them in the coming weeks. However, we do not agree with the method used because we believe more in responsibility, in the strength of commitment, in control, as Daniel Labaronne pointed out, than in the norm. What matters is not the normative level, but the result and protection of the French. At the end of 2018, in front of the President of the Republic, banking institutions made three commitments: freezing the tariff schedules for all our citizens, capping the cost of bank incidents at 25 euros per month for the 3 million people in financial fragility and capping the costs of bank incidents for the beneficiaries of the specific offer at 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year. Two waves of checks have been carried out to verify that these commitments are being met, one by the Supervisory and Resolution Authority and the other by the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention. This unprecedented double-checking mechanism seems to be effective since the results are at work: the costs of bank incidents have been reduced for 1 million French and the number of beneficiaries of the specific offer has increased by 40%. It is likely that these controls, although we do not yet know the details, have highlighted isolated behaviours that would not be satisfactory. To address these challenges, the Minister of Economy and Finance announced two categories of measures on February 21. The former are transparency measures to expose banks that would not play a role in meeting the criteria for eligibility for the specific offer. The second concerns problems posed by large charges and which the banks themselves cannot solve – telephone, water or gas companies, whose bills sometimes result in additional charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u232	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u233	The minister has just made strong commitments regarding banks, which meet the needs of our citizens and the expectations of associations. The first is to report to one month the period of detection of fragile customers, which will allow to activate the ceiling more quickly, to set to five the number of incidents from which a customer is described as fragile, which clarifies and harmonizes the practice of banks; the second is to maintain the assessment of financial fragility for a minimum period of three months, thus maintaining the ceiling during that period; the last is to provide persons subject to an over-indebtedness treatment measure with the cost cap throughout the period of registration in the national payment incident file. The minister has also begun a reflection on the costs of very small businesses because, the rapporteur is right, it is a matter for us to monitor and evaluate. The Minister also announced that the Bank of France would make public the names of banks that would not comply with the rules, in particular for bank incident charges, according to the practice of the "name and shame", which has proved its worth in the event of non-compliance with payment deadlines. The charter will enable the commitments of banking institutions to be fulfilled. The strength of the commitment will make it possible to obtain important concessions in favour of the French, especially the most fragile of them, given the very difficult period that awaits us. The most important thing is not to know whether the chosen path is legislative or regulatory, but to effectively protect the French. Thanks to the measures announced by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, and to the reflections that will emerge from the debate that you have raised in this House, Mr rapporteur, we will be able to shelter the most fragile households behind a solid shield. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote on this bill, while welcoming the initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u234	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u235	First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr rapporteur, for this bill, which I really care about in that it aims at capping bank charges, which is a major issue in order to protect our most modest citizens, especially since the crisis linked to the covid -19 epidemic in France will increase the number of precarious people. For some households, the economic shock results in a decrease in income due to partial activation or loss of employment, while the share of usual expenditure is incompressible. The effect of scissors is formidable. According to the Observatoire de l'inclusion bancaire, 3.6 million people were in a situation of bank fragility in France in 2019. However, only 500,000 of them benefited from the specific offer. Of those in debt or with a bank ban, 78% did not benefit from a cap, according to a survey conducted in October 2019 by 60 Million consumers and the National Union of Family Associations. If the average cost of bank incident charges was 34 euros for each French in 2018, the bill is almost multiplied by ten and approaching 300 euros for those whose financial difficulties persist, and even 500 euros for the most precarious. This sum must be compared with that received by a beneficiary of active solidarity income or the poverty line indicator. Faced with this unacceptable finding, Socialist and related MEPs share the desire to protect our most fragile fellow citizens by extending the ceiling on bank charges beyond those eligible for the specific offer, i.e. those who are over-indebted or registered at the Banque de France. Following the social movement of yellow vests, one of the main demands of which was to improve purchasing power, the Elysée announced in December 2018 that the costs would be capped at 25 euros per month for the most fragile customers. It must be noted that the promise is not fully fulfilled. Some institutions do not fulfil their moral obligations. The Socialist Members at the time regretted that the bank's commitments were not binding. The current legal framework is insufficient. Improving it is clear and urgent in times of crisis because it cannot be based solely on the will of the banks to apply the scheme or not. According to the governor of the Banque de France, who was interviewed on 6 May, the three-month period should already be reviewed, the length of which would give rise to irremediable situations. The ceiling on bank charges is a social measure designed to put an end to an infernal spiral in which financial fragility generates new costs, making the situation increasingly critical. It will give millions of euros of purchasing power back to the poorest people for basic needs. Finally, to make the ceiling on bank charges effective and efficient, we must legislate. That is why the Socialist and related deputies will support this bill of La France, which they share the ambition and the main provisions. However, our group will be able to make a proposal to complete this text on the basis of the Socialist Senators' Bill on the same subject and passed in the Senate last week. In this regard, I hope that this text will be placed on the agenda of the National Assembly if the bill we are considering is not passed. In conclusion, our amendments are based on three main principles. The first is solidarity, first by temporarily exempting certain publics from bank incident charges during the state of health emergency and the following three months, then by a downward revision of the ceiling on bank charges for individuals benefiting from the specific offer; the second is transparency, by increasing customer information on the amount of bank incident charges with comparable standards on an annual basis; The last is the responsibility, through the clarification of the missions of the Banking Inclusion Observatory, through the evaluation of the implementation of the incident fee cap and the publication of the names of institutions that fail to meet their commitments – which you have proposed, Minister. [[Christian Hutin and Alexis Corbière, rapporteur, applauded]] Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening and making effective the ceiling on bank charges by including it in the law is a practical lever to combat inequalities and help the most modest people. In the face of a crisis of unprecedented magnitude, the social emergency forces us to act effectively and quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u236	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u237	I do not regard this bill as an attack on what would be the big bad banking world, but rather as a call for more justice and more humanity. Minister, I listened carefully to your speech. Your point was twofold. On the one hand, you have justified the measures already taken, and you have done well: we have voted for them, and they will be beneficial. On the other hand, you have explained that it is not by law that we will have to push the banks to make efforts in the future. That was also the meaning of MP Labaronne's remarks. I do not agree with this method: we can go through the law, that is even the purpose of our mandate. Let us stop always relying on moral commitments. We saw it during the crisis, during the negotiations on the state-guaranteed loan, when we asked to include in the law the guarantee that interest rates would not be increased after the one-year period: the Secretary of State on the bench, Ms Pannier-Runacher, had refused it, on the ground that the banks had engaged orally. So we didn't write it, and that's a shame. We must shoulder our responsibilities and honour our mandate by clearly writing the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u238	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u239	[[Sophie Auconia, Annie Chapelier and Alexis Corbière, rapporteur, applauded]] What Members can do, let them do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u241	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan and Mr Christian Hutin also applaud]] Once it is not customary, I will agree with the Group of the European People's Party and it is with some benevolence that the IDU-I Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u242	What enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u243	In 2017, bank charges averaged EUR 193; In 2019, despite the adoption of certain measures, they cost the French an average of 215 euros. That's a sharp increase. Cascading billings, it must be admitted, have no educational virtue and often aggravate the situation of already fragile people; They help to degrade the image of the banking system and exacerbate conflicts between users and banks, which are increasingly less able to provide advice. In addition to this, digital development, which reduces costs but further dehumanizes the customer-bank relationship.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u245	While most banks play the game, there are still significant disparities between them. We have recently seen improvements, which you have recalled, Minister: greater tariff transparency, because the regulations in force require credit institutions to be transparent about the bank rates they apply; the written, often annual, communication of any proposed changes to tariff conditions; the possibility of comparing tariffs via a mechanism set up by the Financial Sector Advisory Committee; or even a greater ease to change banks. Despite all this, the intervention of the legislator, which is intended to control and clean up a banking sector that is committing abuses, has not sufficed. Have we been far enough? Have we succeeded in reducing inequalities of treatment in the field of banking commissions? The reality is that no.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u246	Why do you say that? That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u247	[[Applause on several benches of the IDU-I, SOC and FI groups]] Our work has not borne fruit. It is therefore in the interests of solidarity and justice that we will vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u248	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u249	I will start with a figure of 6.5 billion euros: it is the astronomical amount of the fees paid each year to the banks, the famous agios, well known to our fellow citizens. Some of them pay up to 300 euros a year, often the most fragile households, adding insecurity to insecurity. As a result of the yellow vest movement, the banks made commitments to the President of the Republic. In addition to the freezing of bank rates in 2019, they undertook to limit bank charges for customers in financial fragility, by setting two ceilings: one for bank incidents and account malfunctions for persons in financial fragility, and the other for the same costs for persons benefiting from the specific offer for fragile customers, of EUR 20 per month and EUR 200 per year. In addition, the objective was to increase the number of beneficiaries of this offer by 30% in 2019 compared to 2017. A year later, consumer associations have seen what we were hoping for: these promises have not been kept and the majority of customers have not benefited from a fee cap, which averages EUR 296 per year. These anomalies take on an additional dimension in the current period, when the health crisis follows a major social crisis. At a time when the number of jobseekers without any activity increased by 22.6% in April, the level of poverty is likely to rise sharply. Remember that it had already grown by 0.6% in 2018, when the economic situation was better. While the bill appeared to be relevant in March, it has now become indispensable. Let us stop favouring the commitments made by the actors instead of the law! The objective is simple: to put an end to the infernal spiral which wants financial fragility to lead to costs, which eventually aggravate it, resulting in new costs. The creation of a ceiling of EUR 2 per incident or irregularity in the operation of a bank account, within the limit of EUR 20 per month and EUR 200 per year, therefore seems to me to be a step in the right direction. In addition, the requirement for banks to inform the Supervisory and Resolution Authority of the fees levied, which complements the bill, would enable the ceiling to be verified. In addition, the exemption from payment of the costs of an administrative seizure to third-party holders or a seizure-attribution levied by a credit institution would limit the financial consequences of the individuals concerned, the first victims of an infernal spiral. Ultimately, the bill would ensure the proper implementation of the promises made by banks, in a context where half of them planned to increase their service rates by 5% by 2020. Current regulations require banks to be transparent about the rates they charge. Yet they are illegible. The banks had undertaken to facilitate the reading and comparison of bank offers by publishing a standard extract of rates showing the price of twelve of the main banking services ; However, several of them offer instead a rather tedious information document. We regret that there is no obligation in the text to do so. We support the proposal, made in committee by our Socialist colleagues, to translate into law the "name and shame" scheme announced here on 21 February by Minister Bruno Le Maire against institutions that do not comply with their commitments to regulate bank charges. We are also looking with interest at the recently passed bill in the Senate; Some of its articles have been turned into amendments here, which we will have an opportunity to discuss earlier. In conclusion, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote mostly in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u250	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u251	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u252	Finally, the scandal of bank charges, a real organized racket of banks against the French, is the subject of a real debate. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Alexis Corbière, who has made it possible to complete a project which is expected by millions of French people and which should be the subject of a consensus between us. For several years, I have been proposing strict supervision of bank charges, particularly in articles to several bills that I had tabled during the yellow vest crisis. Once it is not customary, I will therefore vote 100% for La France's proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u253	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u254	Bravo, Mr. Corbière!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u255	I shall vote for three reasons. The first is that the bank's position is similar to an abuse of a dominant position. This is a real human tragedy for millions of our fellow citizens; an abominable spiral, which has a terrible social, psychological and health cost. It is also a tragedy, which is not said enough, for all small entrepreneurs, constantly racketed by the banking system and forced to put the key under the door. According to Les Échos – which is not, I believe, a revolutionary newspaper – the cost of accountkeeping and commission of intervention has increased by 1000 % in ten years! The Autorité de la concurrence has imposed sanctions for cartels. We have the highest bank charges in Europe. It is time to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u256	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u257	Listen, Mr. Mayor! It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u258	The second reason is that it is time to put an end to codes of good conduct, which are only a pretext for giving in to lobbyists and making low-end communication.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u259	Yes! Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u260	[["Oh! »on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] [[New protests on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Minister, you are an incredible tartufferie. It's been going on for years! You explained to us that you had a good method, but you recognized yourself that you were going to do it again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u261	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u262	You're going to recreate one of those gas factories that Bercy has the secret, with obviously very complicated criteria to apply; It will take even more officials to monitor them, but nothing will be monitored, you will trust your bankers friends and you will end up telling us, in two years' time: "Ah, it didn't work out well, we're going to invent a new code of good conduct. And in the meantime, families can't do it anymore and billions are passing from the hands of the poorest to those of the richest in the country. I didn't expect you to approve the bill, but still, dare say that the bill will favour wealthy households! You know very well that, for the past ten years, according to an article published in a financial journal, banks have segmented customers: the more they do business to the easy customer to avoid it going elsewhere, the more they press those who have no choice but to stay, otherwise they can no longer live. You also know very well that the argument of the 360,000 jobs is not solid, because the first victims of the system are bank employees, who can no longer afford what they are asked to do. Moreover, if you follow your reasoning to the point of absurdity, does that mean that in order to save jobs, a socially unacceptable policy must be pursued? Does that mean that everything is allowed? Everything is allowed, but not control of the speculative activities of some banks, which you have allowed to do, and not that of exorbitant wages, which you promised to regulate by a code of good conduct!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u263	Oh, yes, that would be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u264	Give the salaries of the highest French bankers! Not allowed either, the control of the slippers of Bercy's senior officials, who are one at the Bank of America, the other elsewhere, and who relay the positions of the banks, especially regarding the privatization of Paris Airports, of which you are the accomplice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u265	Maybe that'll stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u266	All this becomes tiring. I will vote for the bill because the French are no longer free from the false conscience, the permanent bias, the public impotence for which you are responsible. For years, the state has been lying in front of the banking sector. If, to the rigor, this one had financed the economy! But he refused to finance SMEs to play money in financial markets. That is why the only real measure that would make it possible to clean up the French financial sector would be the separation of deposit-taking banks and business banks, so that the savings of the French, so abundant – we have one of the highest savings rates – can help the relocation and the establishment of companies. [[Christian Hutin applauds]] During the 2008-2009 crisis, France helped banks without taking any interest and lost billions of euros when they repaid the loans. It is time to put an end to this unbearable system that disgusts the French. I regret that the Government is not aware of the anger against its bias. You defend a banking and financial oligarchy to the detriment of employment and social justice. That is why I shall vote for the text at 100%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u267	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u268	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I regret that the quality of the debate has been somewhat tarnished by the mediocre, but unsurprising, divagations of the last speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u269	What a sufficiency!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u270	For the rest, I would like – and this will not happen to me often at this microphone! – thank Alexis Corbière and the group of France for proposing this debate on bank incident charges. This is a major issue, which concerns millions of our compatriots, especially the most fragile of them, those for whom life is hard and sometimes unfair. I come across them in my constituency, in certain quarters of Evreux, and I know that for them this debate is absolutely fundamental. From us, here, they expect only one thing: an improvement in their situation, a reduction in the cost of bank incidents and protection by the state – we will bring it to them. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I also want to thank those Members who have had the courage – because they need it – to pay tribute to the work of the banks. I would like to thank them, too, in front of you, because if it is easy to tap banks, it is more difficult to thank them for their commitment during the crisis. They responded to the call by providing €88 billion of state-guaranteed loans to our SMEs, to the self-employed, to the traders, to all those who needed cash to survive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u271	These loans are guaranteed by the state, so we're going to pay! Where's the credit for the banks?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u272	It's five times less than in Germany!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u273	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] And to all those who tell us that we should weaken or attack the French banking system, I will simply say that we must be careful, because it is to serve alternative models whose crisis has shown all the limits. For example, online banks, completely dematerialized, are very good when there is no economic crisis. But when it comes to asking for a loan and negotiating it with its bank advisor, we are very happy to find the French territorial banking network! I therefore want to say that I am committed to this network and its specificity. Indeed, it is made up of retail banks, mutual banks and the Postal Bank, which, I would remind you, is probably the most directly concerned by the protection of the poorest households and our most modest compatriots. Through their agencies, these banks have networks throughout the country, and their bank advisors provide answers to all those in need of financing. I therefore hope that we will pay close attention to protecting the French banking model, which has proved its effectiveness and availability. I also want to confirm the Government's commitment to go further in capping the costs of bank incidents. We will therefore select several of the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, Alexis Corbière, and put them in a different legal framework. Some say that all this is just wind, that it is not real: I formally contest it. Efforts have been made and progress has been made, as the figures show: today, almost 500,000 people benefit from the specific offer, whereas they were only 300,000 at the beginning of the quinquennium. And this is not the figure of the Government, but the figure chosen by the associations themselves! The Government will specify by decree the definition of fragile clients,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u274	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u275	...which will allow them to be included more quickly in the device. Indeed, after five monthly banking incidents, a person will be immediately considered a fragile customer, and will be protected for three months, longer than today, where no duration is specified. We will apply this mechanism in full transparency, since banks that fail to comply with their commitments will be publicly denounced, according to the practice of the "name and shame", so that all French people know which banks respect the rules and which banks do not comply with them. I will also sign an order defining precisely the information to be transmitted to the Banque de France, which will be responsible for monitoring the commitments made by the French banking network, which will be summarized in a charter. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and on several benches of the MODEM group. – Mr Olivier Becht also applauds]] One last point: I repeat that, in making these commitments, the Government takes into account not only the remarks and proposals made by Alexis Corbière and the group of La France, but also those made by various parliamentarians who have made a strong commitment to the debate. We try to reconcile two objectives: on the one hand, the preservation of the French banking model and its agencies, established throughout the territory, the employees and banking advisers offering individuals and business leaders the possibility of obtaining advice after a direct, humane physical contact with the bank; On the other hand, the legitimate will to protect the most vulnerable audiences. That is the balance we are proposing, and I hope that it will be supported by the greatest number of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u276	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u277	[[Mrs Mathilde Panot and Mr Stéphane Little applaud]] I would like to thank everyone – and I would like to stress this point – successive speakers in the rostrum. I would point out that seven of the eleven speakers have already announced their support for the bill. From my point of view, it's already a victory. This shows, in fact, not that I was a pioneer in this fight, but that many of us consider that it is time to act at the legislative level. Thanks to my friend Éric Coquerel, Émilie Cariou, Stéphane Peu, Claudia Rouaux, Christophe Naegelen, a member of the IDU and independent group, Michel Castellani, a member of the Libertés et territoires group, and Nicolas Dupont-Aignan for intervening by demonstrating their support. This is proof that there is a powerful debate. I also wish to reply to the other speakers. Dear M'jid El Guerrab, you considered the numbers I gave to be old,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u278	A little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u279	... implying that they were therefore false. But if these figures are old, it is precisely because we cannot get more recent ones! That's the whole point! I want to have the recent figures, so help me by passing the bill, which is to ask banks to tell us what profits they make each year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u280	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u281	If today we are working on the 2017 figures, it is that the opacity about them is maintained. However, it is not because these figures are old that they are false. [[Smile]] [[Smile]] I am also bouncing on Daniel Labaronne's words, and I would like to thank him for the stimulating debate we have together: his argument is that the mechanism we are proposing will benefit the rich. I understand, minister, that this was the humorous dose of the debate! Blague aside: rich people who pay bank fees? I don't know if there are any, but, as Jean Gabin said in a beautiful film – from the place I occupy, moreover: "There are also flying fish, but they don't make up the majority of the genre! » [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the FI group]] You will not make me believe that today it is the rich who pay bank fees – precisely because they are able to negotiate with their bank. This argument therefore does not hold! And even if I were to take you to the word, it would mean that it is me, not you, the defender of the rich who are being robbed by the banks! Frankly, what justifies a transaction that costs 75 cents to a bank being charged 15 or 20 euros? It's stealing! Mr.Minister, it is difficult to respond to you in a hot way, because you are announcing things that deserve to be looked at in detail, but it seems to me that beyond the disagreement that separates us, the simple fact that you come here to debate the subject is proof that we are right. You yourself say that the measures you introduced in 2018 need to be completed: despite what you repeat, it's good that they don't work! You plan to consider a client fragile from the fifth banking incident: this is a problem. A person who knows four banking incidents a month, each possibly being charged 50 euros – since this is the current ceiling – will not be considered a fragile customer despite the 200 euros monthly paid to the bank! Your measure even has a perverse effect: to become a fragile customer, you will need to know a fifth incident. So you accept the fact that a customer who pays 200 euros per month, or 2400 euros per year – it's more than a month's salary! – does not meet the criteria for being recognized as a fragile customer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u282	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u283	Yes! Unrelenting demonstration! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u284	You can see that your proposal is not serious! You accept that a bank collects 2400 euros per year of bank charges from an individual, for transactions that are worth 15 to 20 times less! That's all the weakness of the device. For my part, I propose something simple, clear, educational, something universalistic, because the law is made for all: bank incident charges of up to 2 euros, capped at 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year. It's not bad already! Do it, we'll see more clearly. I insist, because I have seen traders, artisans, officials of TPE weep, even more perhaps than private people, because they are crushed by the banks. You see, we are talking at the back of the line: I am defending the rich spoiled, and even the bosses who really participate in the production, against the banks! Minister, you really didn't convince me. You're developing the same arguments as in 2018! And I bet in two years someone – you or your successor – will come and tell us exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u285	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u286	[[Mr. Philippe Vigier laughs]] But in order for us to discuss it, I am asking for figures! To do this, pass my bill, which tends to force banks to tell us how much they take from individuals every year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u287	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u288	It is not normal for the French Banking Federation, which I auditioned, to reply that it does not know! Who in this country can believe that a bank does not know how much it collects each year as a result of bank incidents? It's not credible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u289	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u290	A bank, that's all but that! This opacity is by nature revealing: there is something fundamentally dishonest. This is a fundamental problem, and only the power of the law will be able to clean up the unbalanced relationship with the banks. Thank you for listening to me and for the unquestionable quality of the debate. I bet that the bill will be passed; If it is not, be assured that we will come back together, because we must act! (Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups as well as on some of the banks of the Action Group. – Mr. Nicolas Dupont-Aignan also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u291	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u292	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u293	Like many colleagues, I would like first of all to thank you, Mr Corbière, for allowing us to debate this subject, which concerns the daily lives of the French and which the crisis has amplified. It is all the more important that those affected do not dare to talk about it, often out of shame. As many have said, the mechanism of bank charges for overdrafts creates an infernal spiral: someone undergoes an incident of life, such as a dismissal or divorce – in short, a banal incident – and a difficulty that should be transitory, he finds himself unable to get away with it in the long term. Bank charges are like leaning on the head of a person who already drinks the cup. They do not concern only those considered to be financially fragile: everyone is likely, at some point in his or her life, to face such a situation. Earlier, the Minister noted the vagueness of the definition of financial fragility. If I naturally welcome the action of the Government and if I know the commitment of my colleagues on this subject, I must admit that today I wonder about the nature of the agreements and the charter presented by the Minister: are they really binding? I am not at all in favour of systematically legislating and, above all, I will not go into the game of some, which is to stigmatize banks in principle. Minister, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, the Government has already made a great deal of progress and it is to your credit, but it seems to me today that the results are inconclusive and that we still have a lot to do. I therefore wonder whether the legislative procedure should be used to ensure that the arrangements are binding, as well as to maintain and expand them, which would help to relieve up to 8 million people. And it is not a question of rich or poor: a press release published yesterday by ten associations, including UNAF, UFC-Que choix and Emmaus France, indicated that 22% of consumers with monthly revenues between 1500 and 3000 euros pay monthly bank incident charges. I listened to what the Government was proposing earlier: alas, I am not sure that designating banks as good or bad students is a sufficient measure. So I have three questions: first, what controls do you intend to introduce to ensure that the Charter is respected, and what sanctions do you expect if it is not? How many French take the time to read all the fees that banks impose on us and compare the different banks? You'll excuse me for making a little bad spirit, but if the banks, as you say, already abide by their commitments, they won't see any problem with them being included in the law! Finally, Madam Secretary of State, in the event that banks don't play the game, would you be prepared to legislate? (Applause from the EDS benches and from a few IDU-I benches. – Mr Alexis Corbière, rapporteur, also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u294	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u295	I defend Article 1, which is obviously important since it tends to limit the costs of a bank incident to 2 euros – with a monthly ceiling of 20 euros and an annual ceiling of 200 euros – and to oblige them to provide certain information. That would prevent us from relying, as we had to, on figures from a few years ago. I take this opportunity to respond to Bruno Le Maire. He proposes to draft a decree to encourage banks to make greater commitments in this area, sure that the educational effort and the threat of being publicly denounced by the "name and shame" will suffice to make them play the game. This is consistent with the rest of his speech, in which he thanked the banks, as if, in a certain way, they acted philanthropy when they agreed to lend EUR 10 billion to businesses, even though these loans are guaranteed by the state and therefore risk nothing. I don't have the same definition. While Mr Le Maire thinks that the banks provide, in a way, a public service and that he bets on their cooperation, I consider, for my part, that they exercise a very important financial predation on all those who produce wealth, including on companies – this is what is called financial capitalism. So everyone has their definition, but we could at least agree on one thing: the banks obviously didn't play the game. Why would you want them to play more of the game today? There has already been a warning, so we must now go through the law. I am convinced that a majority of you agree with what we are saying. It wouldn't hurt to vote for a group bill. France is insoubted – it could even do a lot of common good! I therefore invite you to follow your inclination on this subject. Many of you have certainly noticed the absolutely abnormal explosion of bank charges, which puts us in a difficult and aberrant situation: while we put money in a bank, this one places it, taking profits from it but allows us to charge fees as soon as there is a problem! [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I've been a business manager, and I can assure you that when a company is in trouble, you really have to go get the bank to get you out of business and bet on your business, because there's no one left on the date? I regret that Bruno Le Maire is no longer here to hear me; In any case, I do not have this optimistic or somewhat naive or even interested view of the French private banking system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u297	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 2 and 43. Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u298	This amendment has two purposes. On the one hand, it enshrines in the law the overall capping of bank incident charges. On the other hand, it foresees that each bank will have to define its criteria in full transparency – in this it joins the objectives of the Government, which announced that it wants to publish the list of credit institutions that would not comply with their obligations. In short, the purpose of this amendment is to incorporate all these principles into the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u299	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u300	This amendment, identical to that of Mrs Rouaux, has two purposes. First of all, it aims to include in the law the overall ceiling of bank incident charges for persons in financial fragility, in accordance with the commitment made by the banking profession in 2018. This measure should help to protect people in financial fragility from a cascade of costs that we described earlier. More explicitly, it gives the authorities, whatever they may be, the task of contributing to this objective. In addition, banks will have to make public the criteria they use to identify fragile customers, by transmitting them to the Observatoire de l'inclusion bancaire, the OIB, which brings together professionals from financial institutions and consumer organisations. This amendment, like the other two that I will defend later on, was passed by the Senate as part of a recently considered bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u301	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u302	While I congratulated you earlier, it is my heart that I give your amendments an unfavorable opinion, ladies and gentlemen. I understand your intention, which is indisputably good, but the way in which you drafted your amendments would replace almost all of Article 1, which is the heart of my bill, with provisions that are nothing really new to the current situation, since you are proposing to include in the law commitments that have already been made. I am speaking here in my personal capacity, since the committee has not examined these two identical amendments, but I give them an unfavourable opinion. To conclude, Mrs. Rouaux, I would like to remind you that in the Senate, your colleague Rémi Féraud stated that such an amendment was below his bill and that he could not vote on it because it was necessary to be more ambitious. I can't say better. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment, which seems to me to be in contradiction with your intention – I will accept others later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u303	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u304	Following on from the remarks made by the Minister of Economy and Finance, the Government is opposed to these two identical amendments. I will provide factual answers to the questions asked. Two waves of controls were carried out by the CPRA on sixteen banks in five large networks covering 98% of fragile customers – it can therefore be considered that the practices found are fairly representative of what is happening in banks. As you know, there are just over 3 million fragile customers, of whom 1.1 million have actually benefited from this cap in view of the exceeding of the ceilings defined by the banks. The device also works: the observed compliance rate is above 85%. You will answer me that the situation is not in conformity in 15% of cases, but you will be aware that this leads to the sending of follow-up letters by the CPRA, and then to formal notices. Control is therefore effective and regular. The results of a new wave of controls are expected to be available at the end of June or early July. There are follow-up letters, notices and the publication of the names of companies that would not comply with these capping rules. Moreover, the criteria set by banks to identify fragile customers are already being passed on to the OIB; their annual publication will be effective from this year on. So that is one part of your amendments that is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u305	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u306	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is true that my amendment tends to reduce somewhat the effects of Mr Corbière's bill. In view of the elements that he has presented to us, we do not want minimum legislation: we will be a little more demanding. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u307	What about your amendment, Mrs Rouaux?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u308	I'm taking it out, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u309	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u310	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u311	I must point out, as is customary, that this amendment has been rejected by the committee and that I am presenting it personally, together with my friends and comrades from the group La France insoumée. It aims to ensure that the information procedure known as the Murcef letter is free of charge, which requires the banker to inform his client of the consequences of the lack of provision of the account on which a cheque has appeared and is likely to be rejected. This regulatory information is frequently billed by banks, even in the absence of rejection of the cheque, which is all the more paradoxical since the law does not impose any costly formality, but only information "by any appropriate means". That is the subject of this amendment, which I ask you to adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u313	Unfavorable. Article L. 131-73 of the Monetary and Financial Code provides for the bank to send prior information to the account holder when the account holder issues a cheque without provision which will be rejected. The amendment aims to make this information free of charge for all customers; However, the costs associated with this prior information are already specifically covered by the cap commitments for fragile customers, in accordance with the proper use we have negotiated with the banks. The same article also provides for a cap on these advance information and letter charges in the case of a rejection of a cheque without provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u314	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u315	This amendment, which was rejected by the committee, but which I personally support, is a coordination measure with the previous amendment: it aims to ensure that the charges levied for prior information cannot lead to exceeding the overall ceiling for bank charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u316	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u317	Unfavorable. Article L. 133-26 of the Monetary and Financial Code provides for a cap on payment incident charges for instruments other than cheques. This ceiling, fixed by Article D. 133-6 to EUR 20 per rejection, relates primarily to discharges of levies. For financially fragile customers, discharges of levies, discards of cheques without provision, non-execution of permanent transfers and costs of opposition of cards are already covered by the cap commitments that the Minister of Economy and Finance presented, in accordance with the good use of the French Banking Federation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u318	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u319	I am once again defending an amendment rejected by the committee, but to which I am in favour in my personal capacity. This is an important subject, although the limited speaking time prevented me from referring to it earlier: I am referring to the reimbursement of the costs that banks are wrongly charging when they apply the same costs several times to the same operation. The Minister referred earlier to this system, which causes banks to mechanically charge five or six times the same fees in five or six days. He assured us that he was acting – I have no doubt – and that he had met with the great billors, including Engie, who are committed to putting an end to this practice. All right, but the big billers aren't the only ones involved. Again, let us put this principle in the law! Let's make things clear! For our part, we ask for an automatic refund of these costs, without the customer necessarily making the request – given the difficulties he encounters, he does not always understand what this is about and does not necessarily realize that he has been charged three or four times the same costs. This amendment makes it clear that the wrongly charged costs will be reimbursed. It is, in my view, a measure of justice. I believe that all the arguments have been exchanged, but this practice is truly scandalous. I don't think anyone in this House would find it normal for the same fees to be collected several times, bringing up the bill for the client. We also need to create the conditions for easier reimbursement for injured customers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u320	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u321	On this amendment, tabled by the rapporteur and rejected by the committee, the Government issues an unfavorable opinion. I would point out that Article D. 133-6 of the Monetary and Financial Code already provides for the reimbursement by the banks of any fees which may be levied in the event of multiple rejections of the same transaction, in particular the levy: the customer must request the reimbursement of these costs. This provision certainly falls within the regulatory level, but it is well enshrined in French law. The scheme operates unevenly because banks cannot clearly identify the representations of levies. It is for this reason that the Minister of Economy and Finance is in contact with the large companies issuing invoices and the banks – as you yourself said, Mr rapporteur – to find a computer solution that makes it possible to distinguish between the first presentation of a levy and the representation of the same levy. The deadline for the implementation of this technical solution was no later than November 2021. It is this solution that will really make effective a provision that is already contained in French law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u322	Mr Labaronne and Mrs Cariou both asked for the floor. Who should I give it to?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u323	We're not in the same group anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u324	[[Laughs]] I noted it well, but then you both raised your hand, Mr. Labaronne refers me to Mrs. Cariou, who sends me back to Mr. Labaronne herself. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u325	[[Smile]] I thank Mr. Labaronne, always courteous. This is a public health amendment, which must be included in the law. The Secretary of State referred us to a poorly applied regulatory provision, since it is not subject to computer monitoring by the banks. I hear that computer systems are going to evolve: that's very good, but they should have evolved a long time ago, since the provision was already in the regulatory part of the monetary and financial code! Today, we ask that this scandal finally cease. Indeed, the large billors were brought together. I myself participated, together with Mr Labaronne, in a meeting in Bercy with Engie, telephone operators and insurers, among others. There's a real problem. I am sorry, but in our country, to move things forward, we need to change standards, and it is up to the legislative power to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u326	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u327	I thank Émilie Cariou for defending the law rather than the decrees. Madam Secretary of State, you have brought water to our mill by explaining that there is already an unimplemented decree, or so badly that it has no effect! We are being proposed to use a decree rather than to include this provision in the bill; But this decree will have the same effect: it will be applied just as badly, even as you claim to understand the problem. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] I am also speaking to my colleagues in the La République group, who have been voting against the successive amendments for some time now: I understand that you will probably vote against this bill, and I think you will regret it. But you could at least abstain when the amendments are obvious. One cannot imagine that a bank will not reimburse the fees unduly levied! Honestly, how can we vote against such an amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u328	The banks are already paying back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u329	Yes! It's in the decree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u330	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group]] We just explained to you that the decree doesn't work! Your colleague Émilie Cariou, a great specialist on these issues, said it herself! In what world do you live to believe that this decree works? I wonder if any of you ever had problems with a bank!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u331	In my opinion, it's very rare!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u332	I think it is, as I said earlier. Of course! But I believe that you are voting automatically, and that you are opposed to the opposition's bills even when they are good – as is the case with the opposition – according to the Government's opinion. Remember that this has caused you some problems recently! At this stage of the debate, I therefore invite you once again to reflect. On the benches of different groups, we all explain that the decree does not work and that we must pass it through a law. This is a good thing because, as you can see, MPs are meant to vote on the laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u333	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u334	This light sheds light on two aspects of the bill and the debate we have on it. The minister pointed out earlier that the bank staff should be greeted: of course, no one is challenging it. But this bill points to one point: these problems are no longer managed by male and female bank employees, but by algorithms which, with the dematerialization of the activity, have led to hundreds of redundancies in the banking sector. Before we greet the bank's employees, let us remember the tragedies caused by dehumanization, the use of algorithms and the dematerialization of its functioning. This results in the kind of aberration we are discussing! As for my second point, I had already had the opportunity to express it: the people cannot be told that they must obey the law and, when it comes to banks, refuse the law for incentives or incantations. This is not possible, it is not the Republic! In any case, it is not understood when it imposes the law on the weakest and reserves tolerance to the strongest. I'll even go so far as to say that it should be the other way around.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u335	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u336	First of all, with regard to the first amendments we have examined, they provided for arrangements already included in the commitments which have been made by the majority and which are being fulfilled. It makes sense for us, who are in favour of the contract method, to live up to these commitments and not to vote for the proposed amendments. In this we are consistent, Mr Coquerel. It is also true that there is a difficulty in reimbursing the costs collected repeatedly. That is why we Members have drawn the attention of the banks, who have told us that they have a technical problem with the invoicers: they are the ones who systematically return invoices that are not paid. We told them that this problem had to be resolved, but I was able to see for myself that it was of unheard-of complexity. I thought it would be easy to get through it, but not at all. The billers and bankers are therefore committed to working together to solve this problem of multiple billing for the same transaction. You mentioned, Madam Secretary of State, a commitment of the billers due in November 2021. However, it seemed to me that an agreement had been reached to speed things up, as this date seemed a little distant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u337	It's symptomatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u338	There are elections...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u339	We're here to make the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u340	We're here to press for speeding things up! We are here to make the law, yes, but our role is also to control. However, we firmly adopt an approach based on voluntary engagement and monitoring. The issue of non-compliance was raised; In this case, we would probably not refrain from legislating.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u341	But it doesn't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u342	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] We would not forbid it, but in this case it works, it is efficient, fast and evolving – and we control!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u343	No! It's not working!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u344	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u345	It seems to me that we should try to calm our debate because, basically, we agree. It is a good debate, and we differ only on form. There are indeed two methods. The first, the direct legislative method, would raise difficulties of efficiency and enforcement, but I admit that it would have the strength of the symbol. I agree with many points raised by Mr Corbière on this subject. I have been president of an integration association for ten years and I know, personally, Mr Coquerel, what bank charges are, because we have all known about them. Ask us constantly what world we live in...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u346	That's not what I said! Don't caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u347	Yes, you did! But I tell you nicely, Mr Coquerel, with the sympathy I have for you, and you know it. You can't keep telling us that we don't live in the same world as you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u348	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u349	More personal attacks! That's your specialty!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u350	We live in the same world as you, and I've been trying to tell you since now that we agree...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u351	Mr Balanant, I would like to make a point: when you speak...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u352	Mr. Coquerel is calling me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u353	It's the president talking to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u354	I'm, on the bottom...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u355	Let me finish before I give you the floor. Members must not question each other. When you speak, ladies and gentlemen, you speak to all parliamentarians. Your point, Mr Balanant, must not be a dialogue with Mr Coquerel but an intervention aimed at enlightening the entire national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u356	Thank you, Madam President, for this little lesson, but I think I know the rules...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u357	What an arrogance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u358	It is not a lesson, it is a reminder of our raison d'être in this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u359	I questioned not only Mr Coquerel – who found himself speaking – but the group of La France insoubted. Indeed, for once we agree on the substance! We, Members of the majority and Members of the Republican Group, believe that bank charges are a real problem. We then diverge as to the method. I wanted to point out that progress has been made, that quite conclusive results have been achieved and that some indicators show that the subject is moving forward. So let's continue to take strong action and – as I say personally – if it does not finally work...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u360	I already do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u361	... and that banks do not change their practices, you will have to take back your text and, no doubt, go through the law to move forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u362	When?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u363	All this to come to this conclusion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u364	You have the floor, Mr Chassating, but quickly because your group has already spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u365	I will be brief, but I wanted to intervene because I have been the subject of incidents and bank charges for two years. This is actually a very complex problem, which I would like to avoid caricature by reducing it to a cascade of costs. The subject of financial fragility goes far beyond the problem of accumulating costs. It is a problem of accompaniment and budgetary education. However, it should be recognized that the banks have also addressed these issues. They have deployed resources to create dedicated support services for populations in financial fragility. So we have to get out of the Manichean vision that some people would siphon the resources of very modest people. On the contrary, it is necessary to consider the most effective assistance to be provided to people in situations of financial fragility, by providing them with accompaniment. That's a point I care about. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would also like to recall the Government's action in the field of financial education and community support, including through the budget advisory points – PCBs – which are currently being deployed in the territory. About 150 PCBs were put in place last year for a target of 400. These partners are also very important to intervene in the mediation of banking problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u366	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u367	[[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] That has been said on several occasions: we all agree. Our debate is only about whether to go through the law or through regulation. However, in my view, the subject falls within the scope of the law, for the simple reason that it is the law that obliges banks to go through: Article L. 3241-1 of the Labour Code prohibits the employer from paying in cash more than 1500 euros, thus obliging him to go through a banking institution. To the extent that it is the law that obliges an employer to pass through a bank and his employee to own a bank account, it is normal that it is also the law that regulates bank charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u368	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u369	Excellent argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u370	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u371	What a beautiful debate! I would just like to point out that what I am asking for is that the banks should be obliged to pay the costs they are unduly charged! That's the minimum! It's complex, I'm told. But everything is complex! Life is complex! I don't understand that argument. Yeah, it's complicated, so what? It is often the banks themselves that make all this very complicated! I'm responding to my Balanant college...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u372	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u373	No, that's right! Why don't we agree? As I said earlier, Minister Le Maire said in September 2018 that if the implementation process did not work, it would have the legislative consequences. Two years later, you admit it's not working well...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u374	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u375	It doesn't work at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u376	It's not working! How does the fact that today 1.1 million people are considered to be specific customers prove that they are actually paying a reduced fee? I want the numbers! Do you have them? For my part, I don't have them! I want to know how much the device you are sure of operating costs the banks. If you're sure that today's banks get less bank charges, then prove it to me! I asked the banks, who are unable to tell me. I don't believe them on word! That's the bottom line!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u377	I'm not content with their word either!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u378	There are controls!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u379	[[Mr. Eric Coquerel applauds]] You're content with statements. I went up to the gallery to talk to you about specific cases! I can give you concrete examples. Madam Secretary of State, you know that a study conducted by UFC-Que Choisir has shown that 91% of the 104 mystery clients, yet meeting the criteria of specific customers, have not been offered to enter this system by banks! You say you have to trust the banks. I say that after two years, you have to stop trusting them! I say it in all sincerity. That is why, even if we agree on the observation – that is the least – we are in fact not in agreement: by not voting a law on the subject, you will not get any result! We disagree: I am in favour of the result, while you are in favour of the promise! That makes a hell of a difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u380	They're friends of the banks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u381	The Secretary of State has the floor to conclude this long exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u382	I had to make myself very difficult to understand earlier: there are many controls, carried out by the CPRA, which regulates the whole banking system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u383	It's all right, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u384	It is therefore not a third party that could be suspected of compromise or conflict of interest. This is the CAPR, and it has carried out two waves of control. That's a first point. Controls were also carried out by the DGCCRF. The subject is therefore subject to scrutiny. In addition, there are results and figures to prove them. No doubt they must be asked again from the CPRA, which is carrying out controls and at a meeting at which, Mrs Cariou, you say you participated last February: these various subjects were then discussed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u385	We can make progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u386	The subject was to improve representations, but not to say that the ceiling device does not work. I cannot let you say that the device does not work: it works!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u387	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u388	Of course, one can always improve a device, but let me remind you that many laws, which have been enacted for more than forty years, are unfortunately not fully implemented! I will refer to equal pay for men and women, to quote an example that is important to me. Voting a law and making a law effective is not the same thing. It happens that we prefer to make the law effective...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u389	Do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u390	...by attacking subjects one after the other and making the devices work. And I see that we have only been making progress for two years. I also note that we have dealt with the very complex computer problem that you have mentioned. This is a technical subject, which is not as chic as a debate in Parliament, but we are tackling it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u391	In Parliament, we're attacking it too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u392	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I did advance the 2021 date, but it is a maximum deadline. We have accelerated on this subject and will have a next point in September 2020. This is a matter of computer development, and you know as well as I do that in this area, things don't happen by slamming fingers. In short, all this is very concrete, and we are getting results. This is our only compass: that our actions produce effects for the benefit of the French – and not to please us by voting a law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u393	Make yourself happy by voting laws, really! What a sectarianism! Always scornful words to conclude, you can't help it! You're poisonous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u394	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-04-O1224.u395	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the bill to cap bank charges; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on the need for the redemption of public debt by the European Central Bank and its conversion into perpetual debt; Discussion of the proposed legislation to clarify the scope and funding of natural disaster orders. The meeting is adjourned.
