ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the approval of the cooperation agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the governments of the Member States of the West African Monetary Union (No. 2986, 3602).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u3	As you know, on the occasion of the official visit of the President of the Republic to Côte d'Ivoire in December 2019, France and the West African Economic and Monetary Union – UEMOA, of which I recall that the members are Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, Côte d'Ivoire, Benin, Burkina Faso and Guinea-Bissau – have signed a new monetary cooperation agreement, which is intended to replace that of 4 December 1973, at the request of our West African partners. By creating a modernised and renewed framework for the relations of monetary cooperation between France and the countries of the UEMOA, this reform, which marks the end of the CFA franc – the franc of the African financial community, formerly franc of the French colonies of Africa – will be decisive, as the President of the Republic recently recalled, and constitutes a major project, in line with the founding speech of Ouagadougou in 2017. In concrete terms, the new agreement submitted for your Assembly's approval is based on four pillars. First of all, the name of the currency is intended to change, as the UEMOA authorities have indicated their wish to move from the CFA franc to the eco. This choice, which is the sole responsibility of the WAEMU states, constitutes a major symbolic change. The agreement then put an end to the obligation to centralise the foreign reserves of the Central Bank of West African States on the French Treasury's operating account. The agreement also provides for the withdrawal of France from the governance bodies of the zone. Finally, new mechanisms for dialogue and risk monitoring will be established with our WAEMU partners. The Heads of State of WAEMU have chosen to maintain a fixed parity between the euro and the Union's currency, as well as the guarantee of convertibility provided by France, which allows in particular to preserve a stable macroeconomic framework for the economic policies of the area. The guarantee provided by France is indeed a factor of monetary stability and protection against external shocks for the countries concerned. This is evidenced recently by the fact that the countries of the WAEMU have resisted more than some of their neighbours to the crisis triggered by the covid -19 pandemic. With this reform, which is first and foremost a governance reform, France's role is evolving. Indeed, it becomes a strict financial guarantor of the convertibility of the UMOA currency – West African monetary union. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These are the main provisions of the agreement that is the subject of the bill before you for your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u4	Mr Jacques Maire, alternate Mr Jean François Mbaye, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u5	In the introduction, I would like to stress the involvement of the rapporteur Jean François Mbaye, who, together with Marc Le Fur, conducted important consultations on this subject in France and Africa. It is my task to present to the National Assembly as a whole the draft law authorizing the approval of the cooperation agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the governments of the Member States of the UMOA, concluded on 21 December 2019 in Abidjan, which deals with the reform of the CFA franc in its West African component. The debate in this House on a subject relating to the monetary sovereignty of third countries shows that it is time to open up a new era. Yes, the debate on the CFA franc is particularly sensitive. Yes, this currency carries in it both what it is – an instrument of exchange, an economic value – but also what it represents for many people and what we must hear: the memory of wounds of the past that it is high time to close. As true as the euro represents the identity of a part of Europe, the CFA franc continues to drive the identity debates of African youth. More than sixty years after independence, the mere fact that this currency retains the acronym of the French colonies in Africa is experienced as a barrier to its representativeness by part of the population. It is therefore salutary and emblematic that, in this assembly, women and men, some of whom are the fruit of African and French dual history, propose that you move forward in a great democratic debate and call on civil societies in France and Africa to take up the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, is France making money on Africa's back by guaranteeing its currency? No. Does France need foreign exchange reserves blocked by African central banks? No. Is the CFA franc the weapon of the Françafrique? Again, no. On the occasion of this bill, we must demystify the question of the CFA franc and, at the request of the West African countries, open a new page of monetary and economic integration for the benefit of African youth. Our parliament was up to the stakes when it examined a text that will certainly determine the writing of the next pages of the great history that binds France to the African continent and more particularly to its western part. As heirs to this story, it could not be otherwise. Before returning to the main thrusts of this reform, briefly recall the functioning of the current franc of the African financial community, better known as the CFA franc or XOF. Arranged at fixed rates since 1945 to the French national currency, it is used by the eight UMOA countries, Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo. In practice, this fixed parity has the merit of preventing inflation risks, thereby protecting the purchasing power and savings of households. It also ensures monetary stability by avoiding foreign exchange risks, which is a significant advantage for investors and places them in an environment comparable to that of the euro area. However, it is not without its drawbacks, such as the constraint that the strength of its value imposes on the economies of low-income countries. The concrete consequences of this situation take the form of a loss of export competitiveness, which is compounded by the practice of very high interest rates of up to 15% to 20%, by the Central Bank of West African States – BCEAO – and by commercial banks. The strength of a currency is rooted in the confidence that economic agents have in it. This is where France intervenes, because it guarantees, through its own budget, the value of the CFA franc. Under the 1973 Monetary Agreement, the counterparty for this guarantee takes the form of a deposit of 50% of BCEAO's reserves with the French Treasury ; A representative of the latter is also delegated to the governing bodies of the BCEAO. It should be recalled that, contrary to the ideas received, French participation in the governance of BCEAO is the simple translation of the guarantor's prerogative to contribute to the management of the risk to which it is exposed. Under no circumstances should France interfere in the conduct of the internal affairs of States fully exercising their sovereignty. With the agreement before us, the transaction account opened in the books of the French Treasury will be closed by 31 December 2020 at the latest, allowing BCEAO to dispose of all reserves at its discretion and to place them where it considers it appropriate. The agreement also put an end to the permanent French representation in West African monetary bodies; France will only be able to involve a person designated by it in the event of the activation of the guarantee provided by the French Treasury. Regardless of the monetary reforms to which this evolution will lead, France is in line with history. Indeed, it responds to the false trials in neocolonialism that are made to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u6	Ho, ho, ho!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u7	There is no ambiguity, however, Mr Lecoq: the disappearance of the CFA franc has been conceived for and with the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u8	This has yet to be proved!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u9	Will the historical ties between Africa and France suffer? That nenni, because although this agreement distends their monetary ties, it does not completely cut them off. Indeed, if it provides that the currency of the countries concerned will henceforth be called eco, and that the deposit of part of the BCEAO's reserves with the French Treasury will no longer be necessary, the other foundations of the architecture remain unchanged. Thus, the French guarantee will be maintained, as will the fixed parity with the euro, the convertibility and the free transferability of the eco. The aim of this new organization is to promote the integration of the other member States of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which includes, in addition to the UMOA countries, Cape Verde, the Gambia, Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and, last but not least, Ghana and Nigeria. ECOWAS's ambition in monetary matters is indeed the creation of a single common currency, which will be known here as the ECOWAS eco. While the monetary empowerment of the UMOA and ECOWAS countries is indeed the responsibility of the sovereign States that make up them, the situation raises a number of concerns. These first concern the place of certain countries in the new organization, starting with Nigeria. The latter, with a population of 200 million, or 60 per cent of the regional population, accounts for 66 per cent of ECOWAS's GDP, particularly as a result of the oil crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u10	It's not going to last!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u11	The risk that the ECOWAS eco is only an avatar of the naira, the Nigerian currency, is all the higher as Nigeria advocates for a drop in fixed-rate parity with the euro, in favour of the use of a basket of currencies. In concrete terms, such an operation would increase the monetary instability of the area – I am thinking in particular of countries in conflict situations such as Mali and Burkina Faso. If the debate on a single currency is legitimate and necessary in order to speed up regional integration, it cannot be enough for itself. Indeed, the pooling of the currency will take place only on condition that commercial relations are established within the area. However, the integration rate in this area is only around 15% for the region, compared with 60% for the European Union, and the development of a raw material processing industry remains heterogeneous. While importing economies based mainly on tourism, such as Senegal, can satisfy themselves with a strong currency, this is not the case of countries whose economies depend on raw materials, such as Côte d'Ivoire, which provides cocoa, whose competitiveness is based on a weak currency. The convergence of the economies of the area is an indispensable prerequisite for the pooling of the currency. The introduction of macro-economic criteria for the government deficit, inflation and debt seem to be essential. Thus, the success of this reform will depend on the crucial political choices to be made by State officials alone. Nevertheless, and in order to ensure their acceptance by stakeholders, it is essential to have prior consultations and exchanges involving economic agents, intellectuals and public opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u12	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u13	In this regard, West African parliaments will have to play a decisive role and must deal with issues that cannot be the prerogative of heads of state alone. In order to carry out this work, tools already exist, while others will have to be introduced. In any event, it is important to stress that, with a view to enabling UMOA, then ECOWAS, to gain flexibility and to promote wealth creation, France will stand alongside its African partners in order to best accompany them in a molt that will be carried out for their full benefit. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what I had to share on the occasion of this adoption. I have faith in the ability of African youth to deal with these issues, which cannot and should not be reserved for their leaders alone. A new dynamic is at work in West Africa, and it is up to us to give it all the support we need, with solidarity, seriousness and enthusiasm. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In view of all these elements, I invite you to follow up on the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance, by unanimously adopting this bill authorizing the approval of the cooperation agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the governments of the Member States of the West African Monetary Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u14	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo, alternate Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u15	The President of the Republic told Abidjan on 21 December: West African currency is a West African business. Every country that makes up the West African Monetary Union is free to join, like Guinea-Bissau, which has never been a French colony; free to also leave, like Mauritania, to set up its own currency; and finally free to return, like Mali, who joined the UMOA after leaving the CFA zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u16	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u17	The currency cannot be a cell where the African countries would be locked up, nor the instrument of I do not know what practices of another age. The cooperation agreement we are discussing today amends several criteria. The CFA franc becomes the eco, the deposit of foreign reserves in the French Treasury ends, and France withdraws all its representatives from the monetary authorities of the West African zone. Other criteria do not change: fixed parity with the euro, freedom of transaction between the euro area and UMOA, unlimited eco-euro convertibility. It is not our choice, it is that of the African States themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u18	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u19	The objectors of this Agreement argue that parity with a strong currency values imports at the expense of exports. It is indeed the choice of African Union countries to support the development of their SMEs, focusing on an environment that ensures that they have a currency corresponding to their needs. Indeed, in the current state of the West African economies, and even in the absence of a state in many Malian or Burkina Faso regions, choosing today the de-storage of the euro or introducing a floating exchange rate would be the bet of the worst. It may be suggested in the name of respectable principles, but others will suffer the consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u21	As for the argument on the CFA franc or the eco as rent for multinationals exporting raw materials, the major oil groups operating in Nigeria, Ghana, as much as it is now in Côte d'Ivoire or Senegal, do not need the CFA franc. The legitimate fight against the low redistribution of the product from the extraction of raw materials to the populations and against its ecological consequences is taking place elsewhere. We see parity as a consequence of a priority fight against inflation. This ongoing debate between stability and growth is universal, it goes beyond West Africa. The lack of inflation has advantages: a Malian family in Kidal continues to buy its basic necessities with CFA francs that do not depreciate, even when everything collapses around it. It has disadvantages: the investor is faced with prohibitive bank interest rates. The choice is difficult, but it belongs to the UMOA countries, which have been independent for 60 years. It's up to them alone to decide. ECOWAS, which brings together 15 countries, has embarked on a reflection on the establishment of a currency throughout the area. Countries would move towards a currency at floating rates or tied to a basket of currencies. The aim is to increase competitiveness in the face of foreign companies that benefit from affordable credit, without giving up monetary stability too quickly, in order to avoid the collapse of consumption and the melting of savings. I will make a parenthesis on the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS), which also has a common currency: the CFA-XAF franc. At this stage, these countries have not requested a revision of the agreement linking them to France, but they are attentive to the developments taking place in West Africa. The integration of the two areas could have the advantage of balancing an ECOWAS zone where only one country, Nigeria, has a disproportionate demographic and economic weight. These are internal dynamics in Africa. We can observe them, comment on them, and accompany them in a fruitful partnership, but we cannot decide in the place of the countries concerned, even in the name of generous principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u22	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u23	With our rapporteur Jean François Mbaye, and in accordance with the wishes of our President Marielle de Sarnez, who pays the greatest attention to the development of Africa, our committee has carefully examined the cooperation agreement with UMOA, because it is not only a major monetary, economic and political project, but a new stage of cooperation with African countries, which must enable them to strengthen their economic and regional integration, such as their sovereignty. For all these reasons, the Committee on Foreign Affairs invites you to approve this agreement. (Applause from the LaREM Group and the panels of the committees. – Mr. Sylvain Waserman also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u24	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u25	It is to regret that I stand here to defend this motion for the prior rejection of the bill authorizing the ratification of the cooperation agreement between France and the Member States of the West African Monetary Union – you have made a lapsus, Minister Delegate, in speaking of Economic and Monetary Union, which does not cover exactly the same reality. Indeed, I would have liked to believe that a reform of the CFA franc – originally called, let's not forget, free from the French colonies in Africa – would be an opportunity for an in-depth debate between all the countries concerned and a real change in our economic and political relations with the countries of French-speaking West Africa. Yet nothing has happened like this. In substance, this reform was not done to change anything; On the form, the method confirms France's condescending attitude towards these countries – if nothing is changed, there is no need for concerted action. No one was aware of the December 2019 announcement of the reform by Emmanuel Macron in Abidjan. Only his ultraliberal acolyte Alassane Ouattara knew of it, he who had been installed by the French tanks in 2011 and who is the champion all categories of the multinational Africa with a strong French component, he who has just given himself a third unconstitutional mandate, at the price of a relentless repression of his opponents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u26	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u27	The other partners of UMOA, which manages the CFA franc, namely Benin, Burkina Faso, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Togo and Senegal, were not even informed; Nor was the governor of the BCEAO, who steered this currency. When Emmanuel Macron explained the meaning of the reform in Abidjan last December, he said: "I wanted to be able to flatten all the topics to write a new page [...] of our common history." The idea was therefore not blown by the Member States of the UMOA, as we are told this morning again; It was Jupiter who decided on his own again and again. A change of currency, if one respects the peoples concerned, should have been the subject of a democratic, transparent and open project, even if it was a long one. Let us take our example: in 1992, when the European Community chose to become the European Union and switch to the euro, there was a referendum in France on the challenges of the transition to the single currency, seven years later, with a precise timetable. No matter what one thinks of the result, it must be noted that at least on the method, things were more democratic. What do we have here? Only the ratification of a cooperation agreement, without even the timetable for setting up the eco. The order in which ratifications take place is in itself suspicious: why is France the first country to ratify this agreement, whereas logically it should have waited for the countries directly concerned to do so first? This would have enabled our Parliament to take into account the democratic debates generated by this reform among the peoples in question. It is a complete nonsense to have proceeded otherwise, meaningless which alone would justify rejecting this text – which you still have the opportunity to do. Let us not forget that we are talking about money, that is to say, an absolutely fundamental political and economic institution, since it enables an area to determine and manage its economy by setting its development objectives. Will this reform of the CFA franc allow the UMOA to steer its exchange rates in order to favour its exports where its imports? Will it allow the countries of the zone to choose to rely on one currency rather than another? Will it allow them to control inflation, interest rates, the burden of debt? No. Nothing will change, and the umbilical cord linking the CFA franc to the euro area will continue, through the securing of the euro, the freedom of transactions and the unlimited convertibility between the two currencies, this triple link allowing any multinational that trades in the CFA franc monetary zone to see its investments secured over the long term, to convert its profits made into CFA francs into euros, and then to repatriate these capital to the euro area. The fixed euro-franc CFA parity certainly poses no problem for those working in euros, but it is much more complicated in all sectors where the reference currency is the dollar: the euro – and therefore, with it, the CFA franc – varies daily against the dollar, and when exchange rates are too volatile, entire sectors of the economy can lose their competitiveness overnight – we experienced it before the changeover to the euro. The Agence Française de Développement – AFD – had called the alarm a few years ago, indicating that fixed parity had been one of the main factors in the collapse of the cotton sector in Burkina Faso. Let's remember the lessons of history! It might therefore be in the interest of some countries to tie up with currencies other than the euro, but the system favours the link between the euro area and the CFA zone, thus hindering trade between members of the UMOA or ECOWAS. That explains why, 50 years after independence, Europe is still the first trading partner in most of these countries, while intracontinental trade accounts for less than 15% of their trade – the subject must talk to you, Minister Delegate! This figure is a sign of the real failure of the CFA franc and would justify the fact that the currency was handed over to the closet of history. There is no solidarity mechanism, no single market, no political union within the UMOA; There is no economic interest either in adopting a single currency which there is no indication that it will benefit each of its members. Let us compare again with the euro area: despite very strong economic integration and intense trade between the Member States, we all know that its functioning is not obvious. But this is a monetary union without any other form of union. When one does not control one's monetary policy and one cannot let inflation run to reduce the debt, the only tool to get out of debt, in the event of a crisis, is the reduction of public spending – this also speaks to us here. As in the European Union, the programme is austerity in perpetuity. The role of the CFA franc in the catastrophic economic and social situation of the UMOA Member States is to be studied seriously, although it is obviously not the only factor, we agree. Let us look at the situation from a historical point of view: in the 1980s, the International Monetary Fund – IMF – and the World Bank bleeded the West African countries. The famous structural adjustment plans, with the complicity of the Paris club, destroyed these states under construction, made them dependent on the prices of raw materials, forced them to privatize everything and reduce public spending as much as possible. They promised an economic renewal that never happened. Of course, these austerity cures have never worked and the debt of the countries has remained very high. The CFA franc prevented these countries from using inflation to desist. As a result, they have continued to reduce their public spending to levels that are totally unacceptable to their population. That's the origin of their crisis! Indeed, this policy has produced totally degraded education systems, ineffective health systems and low salaries in the civil service that they cannot prevent corruption. In the face of these situations, official development assistance – ODA – is not enough to climb the slope: poverty and inequality are exploding, unemployment is becoming widespread, millions of young people are affected by despair and forced exile is growing. The worst thing is that even with ODA, the CFA zone is still losing. All UMOA countries are included in AFD's priority list; A significant part of our ODA is therefore dedicated to the deployment of programmes, some of which consist of building infrastructure. But who is favored when it comes to winning markets in a currency tied to the euro? Our multinationals, of course! Abidjan Metro offers a gruelling example of this kind of project,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u28	You prefer the Chinese?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u29	...that Communist Senator Pierre Laurent recently denounced. The project was entrusted, following enormous pressure from the French authorities and without a tender, to a consortium of French companies at an astronomical price. The transformation of the CFA franc into an eco will not change this system. The three things that will change are the name, the possibility for BCEAO to deposit its foreign reserves outside the French Treasury and the absence of French in the governance of the monetary zone – and again. The impact study of the bill states that the end of the foreign reserve obligation in the French Treasury will not alter monetary supervision at all. On the other hand, this provision will alleviate the cost incurred by France, which will no longer have to pay the assets deposited in the dedicated account; That's what says a lot about the state of mind of its authors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u30	It's small as an argument, very small!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u31	As for the absence of French in the governance of the monetary zone, the careful reading of Article 4 of the agreement requires that it be nuanced. Indeed, it provides that an independent and qualified person will be appointed by the UMOA Council of Ministers, in consultation with France, to sit on the monetary policy committee of the BCEAO – I will not repeat here the inquiry of Mrs Roselyne Bachelot this week. France therefore exits through the door to get back through the window. France's objective vis-à-vis UMOA is clear: to silence popular criticism of the CFA franc through a more than minimalist reform. The name of the new currency is a tartufferie as I have rarely seen. Eco is the name of the ECOWAS Single Currency Project, an economic community that includes all UMOA states, as well as Cape Verde, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone. ECOWAS, or ECOWAS in English, had chosen the diminutive of its English acronym for its future currency. We are dealing with a hostile takeover on the ECOWAS eco. France's objective vis-à-vis ECOWAS is clear: to cut the grass under the foot of the monetary project of this zone and to impose its eco as a fait accompli, in order to extend the influence of its currency to all ECOWAS member States. The Commission's report clearly states this objective, as it reads on page 22: "The fact that currency change is a controversial legacy is likely to generate political momentum.... It can allow other countries, now outside the UMOA, to join the eco." The countries concerned did not at all appreciate this aim of France. Nigeria, an ECOWAS heavyweight, referred to the implosion of the zone if the reform of the CFA franc was implemented. Several States have officially condemned this initiative. To impose the eco on ECOWAS as a whole is a very dangerous strategy. The French executive takes the risk of a diplomatic crisis in this area already under heavy pressure. Rather, the absolute objective of ECOWAS should be the strengthening of States, their public services and their economies: those policies alone would be capable of providing people with opportunities for life and work on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u32	That is what is already done in part.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u33	These policies alone would be able to effectively combat terrorism, which is eating up the whole area. With this strategy of chaos, France weakens ECOWAS. This is the African Union's support for the policy of economic and financial convergence and the development of a customs union aimed at creating common economic interests in the region and, above all, at establishing a common currency. To weaken ECOWAS is to weaken the African Union's role in regional integration; It is to weaken African multilateralism. Is that your goal? I can't believe it: you talk so often about multilateralism! Do we want to be complicit in this class strategy? Let me be clear: I do not favour the very liberal Eco project of ECOWAS, but I note that the French Government has invited itself to this debate to disrupt its course. This currency, assume it, corresponds to the interests of the outward-looking African upper classes and the multinationals working in euro; for African peoples and SMEs, it can be a real ball. Your majority defends the interests of the affluent classes and multinationals in all circumstances and anywhere. We Communist Members are opposed to this reform precisely because we defend, in all circumstances and everywhere, the most precarious and the peoples. This requires a genuine renewal. The French executive must not impose its will by putting pressure on African leaders. It is insulting to dictate to independent countries their monetary and economic policy. This policy only fueled anti-French sentiment. With this reform, we are one thousand miles away from what should be done to repair and build respectful relations of equal cooperation between our countries and our peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u34	Arson fireman!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u35	[[Christian Hutin applauds]] We must ask ourselves the question of the interest of such a reform for the peoples. On the occasion of this work, we have found nothing in this direction: this reform is not done for them – they who will suffer from its bad side. This hypocrisy has lasted too long: we must reject this text and start over again. This motion of rejection offers you the possibility: support it to start a truly democratic process!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u36	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u37	This intervention was, both in form and in substance, a mixture of somewhat strange amalgams. This agreement responds to the choice of African countries,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u38	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u39	... while your speech is tinged with interference in their governance. It is up to these countries to decide, consciously and in accordance with their constitution and legislation, whether or not to validate the agreement. I recall that it was the President of the UEMOA Council of Ministers who signed this agreement in December 2019 with the other ministers of the zone: each country validates it according to its legislation. Why adopt an approach of interference in the governance of these countries? It was also the countries of the zone, not France, that chose the name of the currency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u40	The Eco is ECOWAS!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u41	We have a great deal of divergence on the value of this single currency. By eliminating exchange risk and conversion costs, it represents an economic force for the countries of the zone. Contrary to what you have said, capital and goods move freely there and the legal framework is harmonised, creating a favourable business climate. The single currency is a guarantee of stability and security for the investments of economic actors in these countries and foreign countries – legal and monetary security is always an important determinant of investment in a country. Economic growth – contrary to what you said too – has been very high for ten years in this area, which is surely one of those, if not the one, which is experiencing the most sustained growth in the world. We are convinced that the single currency plays an important role in this trajectory. You say that the European Union and France continue to have privileged ties with these countries: this is true and so much the better. We will not complain about developing economic partnerships and exchanges between the countries of WAEMU and those of the European Union. Finally, the President of the Republic took up the issue of debt management for African countries. It will convene, in May 2021, a conference on financing African economies to discuss with African countries and their creditors how to manage debt in the best possible way in the years to come in order to ensure maximum resilience for the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u42	Mr Jacques Maire, alternate rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u43	Mr Lecoq, thank you for your intervention, which is of interest to stimulate debate and clarify the issues at stake. We can follow you on the issue of ownership and decision-making, which must evolve. The fact that the WAEMU Inter-Parliamentary Committee did not have the opportunity to discuss the agreement is a lack. The French National Assembly can provoke this debate with these countries, because the subject concerns all of us. I can also agree with you that an economic policy is not simply monetary policy. If it is not accompanied by regional integration, development of public services – you mentioned it – and security, the currency itself does not solve anything. On the other hand, you don't have a plan B. This agreement is a step, not the end of the road. It is an additional phase of empowerment, which presents a risk controlled by them and by us. If we told them to make the big leap, to rely only on their own economic forces without a guarantee from the French State, and to fly with their own wings, there would be, from my point of view and in the light of the discussions we have had, we parliamentarians, with the heads of state and ministers, an extremely high risk taking in relation to the centrifugal forces which are putting pressure on this currency. There is a risk of caesure: the CFA franc of West Africa and that of Equatorial Africa constitute a single monetary zone. As you mentioned, the reconfiguration of the geopolitical environment can and must continue to deepen. From this point of view, you are right to say that the ultimate ECOWAS stage is not necessarily an optimum compared to the current CFA franc area. This issue will have to be resolved. The balance of the text and the consensus with the governments of the countries concerned are such that they deprive this motion of prior rejection of any object.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u44	I've got five good points and two bad points, it's not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u45	We come to the explanations of vote. Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u46	This text and the debate that accompanies it represent an additional step in renovating our relations with the countries of West Africa, and above all a response to the will of several countries. It is a future reform, a perfect but necessary project. Therefore, the Action Together group will vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u47	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u48	The Liberties and Territories Group has reservations about this agreement. First, we consider that African countries, and in particular their populations, have not been sufficiently associated with them; In this regard, we agree with Jacques Maire. On the substance, we have rarely seen a country like ours entering into agreements in its disfavor; It's classic. I am not naive and I have done enough history studies to know that states follow their own logic and do not get into trouble when they occupy a dominant position. I therefore suspect that the aim of this agreement is to retain the weight of France in Africa; It's obvious. However, I am also realistic: on these areas are the threats of other countries – Marc Le Fur spoke about China, we could also talk about the United States. The place we would leave could be taken by others, without it necessarily being better for the areas concerned. Hell is paved with good intentions and perfection is not of this world; Given the risk of instability in these areas – countries that do not use the CFA franc have suffered a very damaging monetary instability to their already weak economies – the Liberties and Territories Group will not vote against the rejection motion, but will abstain. We will also abstain from the text, considering, to the point where we are, that it is perhaps a mistake or even a point of balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u49	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u50	To support my point, I will show you that all my arguments are already included in the committee's report. With regard to the lack of consultation, I invite you to read page 26. On page 21 it is stated that the guarantee agreement between France and the CFA zone has not yet been concluded, which proves that we are voting on a reform that is not linked. With regard to the economic problems posed by the reform, the report points out the same weaknesses as I have put forward. Several passages on pages 10, 12 and 13 indicate that multinational enterprises and the well-being of the population are favoured by the CFA franc, while local SMEs and poor people suffer from it, especially because of the high interest rates and production costs caused by the high value of the CFA franc. In reading these pages, one really wonders why you welcome this reform, which will not change anything for the people. With regard to Paris' ambition to extend the eco to the whole of ECOWAS, the report has no mystery: on pages 6 and 23, it indicates that the CFA franc can serve as an embryo for the future West African single currency. Pages 22 and 23 show the diplomatic tensions created in ECOWAS by the hasty announcement of the reform. What I have said about the French Government's strategy of speeding up the monetary reform of ECOWAS in an attempt to extend to the whole area an almost identical version of the CFA franc is included in the report. Beyond the problems of substance, the method is not good: we should at least have allowed the parliaments directly concerned to speak before us. I propose that you reject the bill now. Perhaps we could then, and only then, resume our debates according to what has been said in African parliaments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u51	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u52	Of course, the La République en marche group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Lecoq, I listened to you very well, but – to use a formula that has been very popular lately – you do not have a monopoly on African peoples.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u53	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u54	We must trust these countries, their dynamic youth, their entrepreneurial world, their institutions, whether they are state governments or UEMOA. It seems to me that you have heard that you regret the impossibility of letting inflation go; I believe that monetary stability has greatly contributed to a form of stability in these countries. But I agree with you that we do not agree on this. [[Anne Genetet applauds]] This text is expected by African actors, both for the continuity of fixed parity and for the end of the centralization of foreign reserves or the change in governance. Of course, this is a first step, but it has strong symbols, and we can be proud to discuss it in the Chamber. It will be up to African actors to engage in regional integration; France will be a partner if requested. If we reject this text, it would mean that we maintain the status quo, against the demand of the countries concerned. Let us proceed step by step, but let us preserve stability first and foremost and urge the WAEMU countries to build the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u55	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, what would happen if, in a moment of error, we voted in favour of the motion to reject? That would only maintain and prolong a system that you are continuing to denounce. As has often been said, the CFA franc was presented as a vestige of Françafrique.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u57	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u58	We have, for once, the opportunity to take a decisive step to make it evolve...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u59	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u60	... with an agreement between the countries concerned and ourselves. Let's take this step, let's not be afraid! Rather than aiming for an ideal target, I invite you to take this decisive first step. If you do not withdraw this motion of rejection, which would be the wise solution, the Group of the Democratic Movement and Related Democrats will have...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u61	Regrettably!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u62	... to regret indeed, the duty to vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u63	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u64	Marielle de Sarnez has managed to restore vigor and body to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, offering the opposition the opportunity to speak. Several texts were presented in the Chamber, which was no longer the case – important texts, international conventions, were quickly done well without any mention of them. The opposition was able to express itself in a normal way. Five minutes! I just learned that I have five minutes: I don't know why, we went from ten to five minutes. If there was only one reason to vote in favour of the motion to reject, it would be to have five more minutes to put forward the ideas of the Socialist and related group on such an important subject. The opportunity for the opposition to speak has been reduced to five minutes, I do not know by whom. That's a problem! We had ten minutes three months ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u65	You've already lost three!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u66	It's a point of order you're making here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u67	No, it's not a point of order. We must vote in favour of the motion to reject because we do not have time to speak on the text; It seems to me quite legitimate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u68	We have to do the synthesis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u69	Moreover, Jean-Paul Lecoq is absolutely right about speed and precipitation. Self-ignition in 2019, during the visit of the President of the Republic to Côte d'Ivoire: we agree, we left, we take into consideration only the UEMOA, without being interested in ECOWAS, which has already worked on the subject. Minister Delegate, ECOWAS may not be asking for copyright, but the eco is it! She's got the name of her change and she's a little out of it. ECOWAS is the WAEMU plus seven countries: these fifteen countries had already started working and they were completely short-circuited. We must read the statements of the presidents and some parliamentarians of these countries, who consider that the self-ignition of President Macron with the president of Côte d'Ivoire has prevented something much more comprehensive, perhaps integrating Nigeria, whose weight is notable. For this reason, we will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand. Five minutes is still short for opposition groups!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u70	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u71	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 32 Number of votes cast 31 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 7 Against 24
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u72	Seven votes for, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u73	In the general debate, Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u74	How long does Mrs. Kuric have?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u75	It has five minutes, as is often the case in general discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u76	No, it's a time restriction!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u77	Next time it'll be two minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u78	During his visit to Burkina Faso on 28 November 2017, the President of the Republic had indicated that the CFA franc was a non-subject for France. Indeed, if this currency is derived from the common history which binds our country to several It has been one of the attributes of the sovereignty of African States since independence. In 2019, however, the debates were insistent, mainly in West Africa. The authorities of the West African Economic and Monetary Union have expressed their wish to see the functioning of their monetary cooperation with France changed. The aim was to achieve a package of reforms modernizing WAEMU, but also facilitating its gradual extension to other ECOWAS countries. France naturally responded favourably to the desire for reform of what is perceived as a last vestige of the colonial period and of Françafrique. Discussions with its African partners resulted in a joint proposal for the reform of the forums and functioning of the franc zone in UMOA. This reform is formalized in the agreement signed on 21 December 2019 in Abidjan between the Government of the French Republic and the governments of the Member States of the UMOA, which is submitted to us for consideration. In addition to a simple change of name, from CFA franc to eco, the agreement also marks a halt to the centralisation of 50% of the reserves of the countries concerned with the French Treasury; Finally, it provides for the withdrawal of France from the governance bodies in which it was present. The transformation of the CFA franc should facilitate the establishment of a common currency, including other ECOWAS countries, including Nigeria and Ghana, in order to strengthen economic integration in the region. While the objectives are known and shared by the greatest number in West Africa, the methodology and timetable for achieving them are essential and remain the great unknowns to date. Thus, it is important to build a genuine method of public debate, involving as much as possible intellectuals, economic operators and, above all, the elected representatives of each of the countries concerned. This historic reform cannot stand in the way of consultation with the first concerned: the African people. Indeed, the effect of the context of the creation of the CFA francs on collective imaginations persists and strongly affects the way in which monetary cooperation with France is perceived. It leads us to handle these subjects with the utmost rigour in order to avoid the double reproach of abandonment or on the contrary of interference. In order to be in line with the spirit of the reform, which will formally enter into force when the agreements are ratified by the signatory countries and the implementing texts are signed, adjustments to the existing situation are foreseen. Thus, since April, the BCEAO has started to transmit information provided for in the Agreement; the representatives of France had to refrain from sitting in the technical governance bodies to which they remained summoned. This major reform of the quinquennium, at the international level, concerns Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo, but excludes, for the moment, the six Central African countries: Cameroon, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, the Central African Republic, the Republic of the Congo and Chad, members of CEMAC – the Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa – which also use the CFA franc, but form a separate monetary zone. Moreover, his announcement has repeatedly provoked the ire of the Council of Ministers of the West African Monetary Zone, which has noted that it is not in line with the original pattern of Abidjan's declarations. Here too, the last doubts must be removed. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group and on the benches of the commissions]] The Action Together Group wishes to make the renewal of France's relations with our partners in West Africa a cornerstone of our country's international strategy; It will also vote in favour of the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u79	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u80	Our subject concerns the international economy and finance, as well as geopolitics, but it also bears the weight of history. In 1945, General de Gaulle's second provisional government included Maurice Thorez, Minister of State – isn't that right, dear Jean-Paul Lecoq? – Ambrose Croizat, Minister of Labour, or André Malraux, Information. Jacques Soustelle was minister of the colonies there. If one cannot say anything about his activity as a resistor – quite the contrary – one knows his drifts concerning French Algeria. The CFA franc was that of the French colonies in Africa: it is known. By hypocrisy – it must be said clearly – it has become over the years the franc of the African financial community. We cannot continue in this way. Charles de Gaulle said that a country that does not beat currency is not a country; Of course, France no longer beats money, but it is another subject. African bank notes are still printed in Chamalières!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u82	[[Mr. Michel Herbillon laughs]] The then Minister of Economy and Finance, to whom we paid tribute yesterday, did well – so much the better for him – but this very particular situation lends itself to criticism. In fact, President Erdogan, who once again unleashed himself against France this morning, has repeatedly outraged himself against the persistence of a colonial franc. The Socialist and related group is very much in favour of forgetting all this, of putting an end to the existence of this franc, which I have called in committee a superannuation and connotation. It's high time to get rid of it. Thus, we welcome this reform, as we say in politics, and I also congratulate you – in general, the political parties themselves welcome what others do when they are opposed to them. However, we have significant reservations. I have already mentioned the first in my explanation of vote on the motion to reject: the process has been too fast. The ideal would have been to wait a little while to involve ECOWAS, which brings together UMOA and seven other countries, in order to implement a comprehensive reform. ECOWAS had begun to think about the subject, and it was at the origin of the eco. Since President Macron's visit, everything has rushed, and only part of the countries concerned will change their currency; the others clearly say that they were short-circuited. Their reaction is fair and legitimate: it is not done if we want a global agreement that is accepted by all. I would add that Nigeria, the most powerful country in the sector, with 200 million people and oil, wants a basket of currencies that can fluctuate. The agreement never evokes the power of this country, nor the imbalance that it might one day involve. Secondly, our group is concerned about fixed parity and the guarantee of convertibility. Who will they benefit? Obviously, they will favour the large industrial groups, as well as certain individuals, who are called, in my opinion, the African elites. It's very boring. Here we recently swept a similar budget doxa from a reverse of covid -19. By imposing it on poor developing countries, we can lead their growth, which is essential, such as employment. Supporting countries that are not rich with a very powerful currency does not serve their development. In view of the weight of history, the Socialist and Related Group believes that this reform is excellent, even if it should have been carried out more broadly – I hope it will be extended. With regard to financial policy, we are much more mixed: we are deeply concerned about the two criteria of fixed parity and guarantee of convertibility, as they can hinder the economies of developing countries. So we chose to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u83	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u84	We are called upon to approve a cooperation agreement that transforms the West African CFA franc into an eco. Bruno Le Maire considered it so important that it would cut the cord between France and the states of the West African Monetary Union. This agreement has been the first of its kind since 1973 and it would be comfortable to see a profound change in our relations with West Africa, particularly the former colonies. Of course, politics and diplomacy are also about symbols, but they cannot be reduced to them. This text leaves us in the middle of the ford. Renovating our relations with the West African States will involve much more than this agreement signed in Côte d'Ivoire, very opportune for the host, Alassane Ouattara. Since then, unfortunately, the Ivorian President has won elections that no rigorous observer agrees to call democratic. Contrary to the Ivorian constitution, he began a third consecutive term of office, without the French authorities getting very upset about it. Of course, the refusal of interference is a sine qua non for renovating our relations with African States, but also a too convenient justification to close our eyes when the most basic democratic principles are violated. The foundations of Franco-African relations have hardly been remedied. These are always financial interests and resources taken over by oligarchies and business people – there, certainly, but also here! From a strictly economic point of view, the standards of neoliberal globalization will not be shaken either. The new currency, the eco, remains firmly tied to the euro. Parity and convertibility reassure stability; However, the fight against inflation is first and foremost a policy at the service of annuitants, and it is not possible to finance the investments that West African states so much need, nor to combat the massive unemployment that affects their particularly young population. These weaknesses are at the heart of the security crisis that affects or threatens a very large number of UMOA states. Instead of providing help capable of suppressing causes, we insist on speaking only of the effects: war, terrorism – jihadist or not – and banditry. Of course, this text alleviates the dependence of the West African States on France and Europe, and can give hope that, gradually, we learn the lesson. In the near future, perhaps, African States will cease to be seen as a pre-square, and to think that the issue of African migration is a process that must be protected in Europe, rather than a hemorrhage that must be protected in Africa. On the other hand, it may soon be considered that the many African students who come to France represent an opportunity and a real investment for the prosperity of all. Once this is understood, perhaps one will finally realize that the increase in university fees for foreign students is an injustice and an incredible foolishness; Perhaps unbalanced trade agreements with West African States that prevent endogenous development, threaten agriculture and food fisheries, and contribute to the destruction of ecosystems will cease. At this moment, I want to share with you a thought for the victims of illegal emigration, especially for at least 140 people who lost their lives at sea when they left Senegal about a month ago. Many of them no longer managed to live on the product of their fishing and came to Europe to look for a glamour of prosperity. I regret that their drowning has not given rise to more reactions and compassion. I have not left our subject by mentioning them: it is by thinking of the human reality that we must decide on this monetary agreement. Of course, its ambition could not be overstated and other important negotiations are under way to replace the Cotonou agreements; Of course, he seems to be taking a step in the right direction. But, you see, when the stakes are so huge, you cannot be satisfied with the symbols. Our peoples, on both sides of the Mediterranean, are asking for more. And they're right: they deserve it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u85	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u86	The agreement before us aims to reform the functioning of the Free Zone of the West African Monetary Union, as well as to respond to criticism of the CFA franc, accused in particular of being a symbol of the resurgence of French domination in Africa. The aim is to implement a package of reforms modernizing the UMOA and to facilitate their gradual extension to other ECOWAS countries. The developments within the region show a political will to continue the process of creating a single currency in the region. However, it is to the general surprise of elected officials, operators, central banks and the people themselves that Presidents Emmanuel Macron and Alassane Ouattara announced in December 2019 this change of currency, which is still unknown when it will be effective. The discussions resulted in a joint proposal for the reform of the bodies and functioning of the franc zone in UMOA, along four lines. The first concerns the change of name of the currency: in December, the UEMOA authorities indicated their wish to switch from the CFA franc to the eco, because the former was considered too related to its historical meaning as franc of the African colonies. Thus, the CFA franc designation, currently designating the financial community of Africa, disappears. Then comes the end of the obligation to deposit with the French Treasury half of the foreign reserves of the Central Bank of West African States; BCEAO will be free to place its foreign exchange reserves where it wishes to. The third axis concerns the withdrawal of France from the main decision-making bodies in the area, and the fourth, the simultaneous establishment of mechanisms for dialogue and monitoring of ad hoc risks. In the short term, the transition from the CFA franc to the eco is not expected to have a major impact on the monetary stability of the UMOA. Indeed, its fixed parity with the euro and its convertibility will always be ensured by the Banque de France. We will therefore find with the eco the same advantages and disadvantages as with the CFA franc, and this is where the strike hurts, despite the timid advance that this agreement constitutes. As my colleague Jean-Michel Clément noted in committee, "the political dimension of the monetary issue has not been taken into account" and "the parliamentarians have not taken up this monetary reform, possibly leaving the responsibilities to others. In a way, we haven't settled anything in this story yet. And that's what you're doing, rapporteur Jean-François Mbaye. It is true that fixed parity with the euro ensures a low risk of exchange rate crises and moderate inflation. Indeed, the UMOA will continue to enjoy the benefits of the association with a strong currency, the euro, which makes its imports relatively cheaper. Nevertheless, this system deprives countries of UMOA of their monetary sovereignty, and in particular of the instrument that competitive devaluation can constitute. Arranged from the euro, they no longer have the opportunity to lower the external value of their currency in order to stimulate exports and discourage imports, thereby strengthening local production. With this agreement, the winners will still be the multinationals, present, who plunder wealth, especially natural ones. Economists also argue that, in the long term, this reform of the CFA franc could delay the implementation of the monetary integration project of the fifteen ECOWAS countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u88	The beginnings of this enterprise date back to the 1960s; The aim is to provide ECOWAS countries with a single currency in order to facilitate trade and economic integration in the region. The creation of this single currency, also known as eco, was initially scheduled for 1 July. The danger is that two distinct monetary zones will continue, especially since some countries, such as Ghana, have already expressed their preference for a flexible exchange rate system. On the other hand, what about the imbalance between States? Who's gonna come out winning? Without a doubt, the countries strong by their demographics and by their economies, first and foremost Nigeria, which alone accounts for 67 per cent of the area's GDP, thanks to its oil resources. In short, everything must change so that nothing, or almost anything, changes in this monetary system. While we welcome the small step towards greater independence for the West African countries, which can better decide what future they want for their monetary union, this is not enough to remedy all the grievances made to the CFA franc. The export of the wrong French method of verticality is clearly not a good idea; This agreement, the result of a negotiation conducted in secret by a handful of people in Paris and Abidjan, is not such as to reinforce the necessary harmony around such a project. This may explain the postponement of the launch of the eco, which was planned for this year, but also the tensions between countries with the CFA franc for currency and others, particularly the English-speaking countries of the West African monetary zone – ZMAO – in the first place Nigeria. For all these reasons, the Libertés et territoires group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u89	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u90	It's a real festival!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u91	I still have to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u92	Again?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u93	That's his third speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u94	It's self-inflicted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u95	France's relationship with French-speaking Africa cannot be satisfied until the leaders of our country have set aside their obsession with political and economic influence over this area. The reform you are proposing is a new illustration of this obsession...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u96	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u97	...and she's blind to the dangers she could create. The monetary zone of the CFA franc is called "Western African Monetary Union"; It is composed of Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo. All these countries are also part of a broader package: ECOWAS, the Economic Community of West African States, which also includes Cape Verde, the Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone. However, the objective of the fifteen ECOWAS States is to converge economically, and for many years, among other things, to work towards a single currency. There is no coincidence: since 2019, the establishment of this single currency of ECOWAS is accelerating, and it has received a name, the eco; However, in December 2019, without the members of ECOWAS, or even the other members of UEMOA, being aware, Emmanuel Macron, French President, and Alassane Ouattara, Ivorian President, announced the setting up of the eco at the scale of the UMOA alone, replacing the CFA franc. This eco-eco seems to misunderstand the CFA franc, but completely ignores the criteria adopted by ECOWAS for its currency. As Senegalese economist Ndongo Samba Sylla says, "the abolition of the CFA franc would have required at least, symbolically, the end of the monetary cooperation agreement between France and the UEMOA countries." This is not the case. So why was a reform of such magnitude proposed suddenly, without consultation? I'll give you two explanations. The first is undoubtedly the acceleration of the ECOWAS reform agenda; The French fear of losing our influence in West Africa then woke up, and the French leaders chose to torpedo the ECOWAS project, as Senegalese economist Demba Moussa Dembelé said. But this strategy has created very strong diplomatic tensions within ECOWAS – between the countries using the CFA franc and the others – but also between ECOWAS and France. The Nigerian President even raised the threat of ECOWAS dislocation. This strategy of tension is far from innocent. It is Justin Koné Katinan, former Ivorian minister, who explains it best: to maintain his influence in West Africa, France has only two solutions, "either to have the entire ECOWAS zone under his control thanks to his currency, or, failing that, to disintegrate it in order to safeguard his space, spoiling his colonial past". There's nothing to be proud of! The second explanation is the desire to break, within the WAEMU, "the patriotic momentum of Africans in regaining their monetary sovereignty," according to the words of economist Séraphin Prao. Breaking the nascent dynamics of the eco, breaking the anti-franc CFA dynamic that emerges in UEMOA's civil societies: this is the reason for haste. Beyond the economic debate, we understand, it is the safeguard of the pre-square that is at stake. However, the policy of burned land initiated by this reform could prove to be very dangerous; taking the risk of a return of flames in a geopolitical space in which there are so many dangers is totally irresponsible. This irresponsibility is explained by history: this reform only continues the forward flight begun since the first day of decolonization. In fact, on 19 July 1961, here, on the occasion of the debate on the treaty establishing the UMOA, Communist deputy Paul Cermolacce said: "The peoples of Africa [...] aspire to true independence, without restriction or ulterior motives. To go against this current is to go to new troubles. We refuse to endorse your policy. Our position is clear: we are in favour of genuine cooperative relations that cannot be conceived and sustained without full independence. He went so far as to criticize the fact that some African elites were corrupted by France in order to make the people accept the unpopular decisions required by Paris. Fortunately, this no longer exists – Raymond Devos would add: "whatever." It must be noted that, sixty years after this intervention, we still see daily in this area of Africa the difficulties that this communist deputy spoke of. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left therefore calls for a vote against this bill, hoping that this time the power will hear its warning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u98	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u99	We will finally hear the rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u100	The agreement we are discussing today marks a real turning point in the relationship between Africa and France. Its vote by the National Assembly marks a historic step, which will call for others on the road to West Africa's integration. The time has come to draw a future perspective for Africa, and especially for its youth. As an historic and privileged partner of the UMOA member countries, France must contribute to this. With this agreement, we open a new page in the history of fraternal relations between Africa and France, drawing a line on the irritants of the past. We hear the demand of African youth in search of future and sovereignty; Together we decide to get rid of the symbols of the past to embrace the future. The West African States have decided to take control of their monetary destiny, in agreement with our country, thanks to three fundamental developments that have already been recalled: the change in the name of the currency, the end of the 50% payment of foreign reserves to the French Treasury, the withdrawal of France from monetary management bodies. I have been hearing from some of our oppositions for a while now. I can't subscribe to it. What options do we have? Do we want to let friendly countries, brotherly countries, enter into economic uncertainty without helping them? You will agree with me, the answer can only be negative. Do the UMOA states have an interest in joining their powerful neighbours, Ghana and Nigeria? It is up to them to say so; Not to us here. Conversely, the member states of the West African Monetary Union have chosen to maintain a fixed parity with the euro. It's their choice; It's an African case. Each will have its own view of the balance sheet of the CFA franc, but one thing is certain: the fixed exchange rate regime has guaranteed the monetary and economic stability of the Member States of the UMOA, even in times of crisis. They don't want to question it, and we have to repeat it: it's their choice. In order to succeed in a reform of this magnitude, the involvement of local populations is necessary. I stress the importance of the change in method that I mentioned when presenting the text in committee, with a better association of elected representatives and civil society. Parliamentarians from the countries concerned must take their place and act as relays to the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u101	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u102	It is now up to them to defend this ratification project. It is their countries that have asked for it, and it is up to them to open the way for parliamentary debate, as we are doing this morning after we have done in committee. In the continuation of our debates in committee, I would like to welcome the initiatives of some of our colleagues, such as the opening of an interparliamentary dialogue between our Assembly and the UEMOA Inter-Parliamentary Committee, to accompany this reform. These international partnerships are key for these countries, but they belong to the reserved area. As I said in committee, we must remain open to all requests made by WAEMU members in the context of future agreements, particularly with a view to a future monetary zone linked to ECOWAS. Indeed, this agreement is only a first step: the evolution will be long and the challenges that Africa faces are numerous. The first is monetary: monetary stability is an essential issue, and the setting of parity is another. It is a subject that should not be taboo: a devaluation had already taken place in 1994, and too high a parity created problems of competitiveness, particularly for the export of local production, but could also be a barrier to regional integration, in the long run. This integration is now very weak: interregional trade does not exceed 15% of exports from WAEMU countries. The second challenge concerns regional balances: the eventual establishment of a single currency at ECOWAS level raises the question of Nigeria. This giant dominates the economies of the countries of the subregion; It accounts for 60 per cent of the population of the area and 66 per cent of GDP, with an economic model based on oil exports and the practice of a floating exchange rate policy. His overwhelming weight worries his neighbors. The third challenge is the new monetary boundary between the West African Eco and the CFA, which continues to exist in Central Africa. It cuts off integrated regions, like the G5 Sahel, leaving Chad aside. It would be a mistake to diverge from today's de facto integrated monetary zones. Three years after the speech of the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou, this agreement is a concrete example of the renewal of the relationship between France and Africa. Last week, our Assembly voted for the restitution of cultural property in Benin and Senegal. There are many sites: memorials, economics, cultural, security. They must all serve to establish genuine balanced partnerships, which will enable us to stand alongside African States in their future choices. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, I invite you, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to vote in favour of this proposal authorizing the approval of the cooperation agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the governments of the Member States of the West African Monetary Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u103	On the single article of the bill, I am seized by the groups The Republic on the move and the Democratic and Republican Left of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u104	This morning we are considering the draft law authorizing the approval of the cooperation agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the governments of the member States of the West African Monetary Union. This agreement, concluded on 21 December 2019 between the President of the Republic and the President of the UMOA, is a major monetary reform. Seventy-five years after the creation of the CFA franc, and given the history of France and the countries of the UMOA, the subject is of particular importance. With the exception of Guinea-Bissau, the UMOA member countries, Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo, were French colonies. These countries still have French as their official language; They use the franc of the African financial community and their monetary system finds its origins in the monetary cooperation established during colonization, although it has evolved very widely over the years. Today, France's role is no longer predominant in the governance of the franc zone and our country no longer participates in the formulation and implementation of common policies. Nevertheless, French rules and presence, which were sources of persistent colonial prejudice, were still to be lifted. It is indeed a new stage in relations between our country and those of West Africa that will open and the agreement proposed to us changes to begin with the denomination of the currency: the CFA franc will now be called the eco. Secondly, the Central Bank of West African States will no longer be required to deposit half of its foreign reserves with the Bank of France and will therefore now be sovereign in order to place its assets in the assets of its choice. Finally, as the third change, France will withdraw from the governance bodies of the West African Economic and Monetary Union, where it has been represented so far. These three amendments are important. It is the independence and financial freedom of the UMOA that are now affirmed. But our country will not disinterest itself in the future of this organization, and France will retain a role of financial guarantor for its eight member countries, thus continuing to provide them with support. As for the value of the eco, it will remain indexed to the price of the euro, so as to avoid speculation on the currency or a flight of capital. The eco will therefore also be protected, which is a guarantee of confidence for citizens and investors, as well as a guarantee of efficiency for commercial commitments. This will make it possible to have a zone of growth with controlled inflation. I am convinced that parity with the euro is a vital element that must be preserved. It is enough to observe the ravages caused by hyperinflation or a monetary collapse in a number of countries over the course of their history, even recent ones. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, although there are still many obstacles to be overcome, this reform that we are undertaking is a prerequisite for the implementation of the single currency project for ECOWAS as a whole. The Republican Group supports the proposed agreement and will therefore vote in favour of the bill. But beyond the technical and financial aspects presented to us, it seems important to us to stress that a single monetary union cannot succeed and function sustainably without some convergence of economies and thus without integration, or at least enhanced political cooperation, between its Member States. Moreover, let us not neglect the practical modalities and psychological aspects involved in changing currency, coins and banknotes for the population. Its ownership by citizens, civil society and public opinion in the countries concerned is of paramount importance. It is therefore appropriate that the national parliaments, the UEMOA Interparliamentary Committee, intellectuals and all democratic bodies take up this issue, so that this issue emerges from the only narrow circle of Heads of State and Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u106	It is of course up to the countries and peoples concerned to decide this sovereignly, but, with our experience in this area, we can allow ourselves to remember it. France must be in its place: that of a partner, of a friendly country that provides its support on a fair basis, in the framework of a soothing relationship and now oriented towards the future and for the stability and prosperity of these nations and their inhabitants. (Applause from the committee. – Mr Jean-Paul Mattei and Mrs Aina Kuric also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u107	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u108	With the reform of the CFA franc, we are at the heart of the process of re-founding relations between France and its African partners. Turning the CFA franc page is the necessary and indispensable condition for laying the foundations for a new and equitable partnership with Africa. And the fact that the examination of this text takes place the same week as the adoption of the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u109	It's a coincidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u110	...is a real indicator of France's political will to turn the Françafrique page permanently. For the countries of West Africa and for its peoples, regaining their sovereignty requires the abandonment of the CFA franc. From its origin, this currency bore the seeds of a bonded relationship. Indeed, before becoming the franc of the financial community of Africa, its first denominations were "franc des colonies françaises d'Afrique" and "franc de la communauté française d'Afrique". For the peoples of the countries concerned, it has become essential to be able to appropriate their currency. The colonial period should not have a greater impact on their future. I would like to pay tribute to the rich work done by Jean François Mbaye, who produced an innovative and original demonstration and deconstructed certain prejudices against the CFA franc that feed part of the demagogue discourses. Indeed, while it can be seen as an instrument of economic subordination and domination, this mechanism also has many advantages. That has been said on several occasions, it ensures the stability of the currency, so that a collapse similar to that of the Lebanese currency is almost impossible. The CFA franc also prevents the risk of hyperinflation: by way of illustration, in 2020, the price increase was five times greater in Nigeria than in Cameroon or Benin. Conversely, for its critics, the CFA franc is a hindrance to the growth of its members' economies, which are characterized by their vitality. While the creation of the eco does not constitute a revolution for the African States concerned, it nevertheless represents a real step towards their sovereignty. For the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats, with the new monetary agreement, we are not only on the right track, but on the only path possible for the re-foundation of sovereign state relations to sovereign states. Nevertheless, as the rapporteur and many speakers before me have rightly pointed out, I wonder about the method,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u112	... as well as the very modest progress made since the announcement of the abandonment of the CFA franc, already a year ago. With regard to the methodology, the announcement of the agreement in Abidjan by Presidents Ouattara and Macron took on a bilateral dimension, although such a reform would have been better understood and, above all, accepted, had all stakeholders been involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u113	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u114	In essence, this decision is a matter of multilateralism. It immediately aroused controversy as the President of Nigeria called for the postponement of the reform of the CFA franc. A year after the announcement, while many questions have not yet been resolved, much of the answers are now the responsibility of the African countries themselves – this has been said at the moment and is prominently reflected in the report by our colleague Jean François Mbaye. What is the connection between this new currency and that, also called "eco", what are the ECOWAS countries considering? What governance should be established between the eight countries of the EMUAO zone, which will be affected by the eco, and the six countries of the CEMAC zone, which use a slightly different CFA franc? The monetary question also refers to the question of political organization and monetary reform can be an opportunity for reshaping governance between these countries. As our colleague Lecoq explained, the bill does not define the contours of this governance, but it creates the conditions for it. We send a strong signal to all stakeholders to seize and advance this issue. With this bill, everything begins and nothing has yet been resolved. It is in the hope of the sincere re-foundation of France's relations, and more generally of Europe, with the African continent that the Group of the European Democratic Movement and Related Democrats will vote for this text. (Applause on the benches of the Dem and Agir ens groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Michel Herbillon also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u115	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u116	On 21 December 2019, Ivorian President Alassane Ouattara and President Emmanuel Macron announced a reform of the monetary cooperation relations between France and the West African Monetary Union. The agreement they have signed is part of the creation of a single currency of ECOWAS. Of major importance to the region, this monetary cooperation agreement replaces that of 4 December 1973 and preserves the key economic parameters of monetary stability and resilience of the UMOA, namely the fixed parity of the common currency with the euro and the support provided by the guarantee of France. The existence of a monetary zone that federates these countries and allows them to have commercial activity will strengthen economic stability and the absence of inflation in the region. In this respect, the agreement constitutes a major monetary reform, with a real symbolic scope. It takes seventy-five years back, with the creation of the CFA franc, to find a reform of this magnitude in Africa. It should also be noted that it intervenes at a time when Africans themselves are working to establish a continental free trade area. As the agreement points out, France will of course withdraw from the management bodies of the future currency – known as "eco" – and the French Treasury will no longer centralize the foreign reserves of these countries. However, France will maintain its financial guarantee to cover the foreign currency liabilities of the Central Bank of West African States. Indeed, this reform will modernize the UMOA and facilitate the extension of its operation to other ECOWAS member countries. In addition, the new monetary zone of the eco will allow for a real restructuring of West African markets. Let us remember that ECOWAS, created in 1975 in Lagos, includes the countries of UEMOA and their neighbours, where a mosaic of currencies circulates. The main objective of ECOWAS is to promote cooperation and integration in the context of an economic union of West Africa aimed at raising the standard of living of its peoples, maintaining and enhancing economic stability, strengthening relations among its members and contributing to the progress and development of the African continent. In other words, the introduction of a single currency or a fixed exchange rate in the region would lead to the elimination of transaction costs through the abolition of bilateral exchange rates, the development of intra-Community trade, the synchronisation of economic cycles, the perfect mobility of factors of production and the growth of regional economic activity. With the creation of new jobs, the productive fabric would also be stimulated. In the long term, the implementation of this project would lead to a significant improvement in the living conditions of the population. In short, France sees its role shift from that of co-manager of the currency to that of pure financial guarantor. It will thus be in a position to control its risk. With regard to fixed parity with the euro, as some have pointed out in committee, we should be vigilant about macroeconomic balances in the region, since it will de facto lead to an increase in imports at the expense of exports. While there are many challenges, including the necessary convergence of macroeconomic indicators and the coordination of economic policies, on the road to African monetary integration, this initiative is a step forward. In this regard, it is important that we accompany Africans in this dynamic. [[Applause on the panel benches as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the independent IDU group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u117	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u118	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Mireille Clapot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u119	The La République en marche Group welcomes the cooperation agreement between France and the Member States of the UMOA, signed in Abidjan in December 2019, which puts an end to the CFA franc in West Africa. This agreement will enable WAEMU countries to exercise their full economic sovereignty and pave the way for a new era of development and integration in the subregion. As the rapporteur pointed out, the National Assembly's vote on this bill authorizing the approval of the agreement marks a historic step on the road to economic and monetary integration in West Africa. A historic and privileged partner of the UMOA member countries, France must contribute to this. At the request of its African partners, it therefore put an end to the centralisation of foreign exchange reserves by the French Treasury and renounced the permanent presence of representatives in West African monetary authorities. In accordance with their will, the sovereign states of the UMOA will continue to benefit from the convertibility and fixed parity between the eco, its new single currency, and the euro. This fixed parity, maintained at the initiative of the States concerned, is likely to evolve according to their will. With the entry into force of the Agreement, France will adopt a position of pure financial guarantor rather than co-decision, which it was in a very minority position. For my part, I advocate better integration of e-money, which is widely used in food trade, particularly by women. This electronic money, which is more fragile, is more vulnerable to cyber attacks and infox. The continuation of the story will be played out within ECOWAS, which is conducting its own thinking on currency. Prior to the crisis of the covid-19, it had the ambition to establish in 2020 its own single currency, the ECOWAS eco. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Sylvain Waserman also applauds]] For all these reasons, in particular because West Africa's economic and political future depends on it, the Republic on the move group supports the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u120	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u121	My explanation will be simple and complex at the same time, because the Socialist and related group decided to abstain. The historical fact is, for us, extremely important. In 1945, France had several currencies, including the Indo-Chinese piaster. It's amazing! Some parliamentarians may not know, but still today there are two official currencies in France: the Pacific franc and the euro. Each currency represents a particular relationship to the past and to history, and we are very pleased that we are forgetting a system that lends itself to criticism. Indeed, this morning, President Erdogan again allowed himself to attack France on football, but he also takes advantage of an exceptional niche with the African franc: the Françafrique. Let us forget, let us try to forget – or rather, since we cannot forget it, let us forget what existed. For that reason, we support the bill. On the other hand, we were too fast: we had to develop a global method, much smarter and more cooperative, with the countries of Africa.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u122	It'll take 20 years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u123	We cannot involve only a part of the countries, we cannot short-circuit ECOWAS on the simple will of the President of the Republic who decrees to go there cheerfully with the President of Côte d'Ivoire or Senegal. There is a need to maintain an economic logic that reflects the interests of African countries. Our abstention will therefore be positive because of the weight of history, and negative because of the economic and democratic weight of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u124	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me important to insist on the subject as it is fundamental for tens of millions of people, and it is so delicate for our Parliament to debate it, since it does not directly concern the French people. The contours of the new currency would almost completely take over those of the CFA franc, in particular the three main criteria of fixed parity with the euro, the guarantee of unlimited conversion between the euro and the eco, and the freedom of movement of capital between the two monetary zones. These monetary criteria favour multinationals working with the euro and the affluent African classes, to the detriment of employment, industrialization and the dynamism of local SMEs. The maintenance of these characteristics for the eco thus runs counter to the demands of the popular classes of West Africa, victims of mass unemployment and the weakness of the economic fabric, who have long wanted to put an end to this currency resulting from French colonization. At the same time, the reform of the eco proposed by Paris conflicts with ECOWAS's desire to establish a single currency, the ECOWAS eco. This strategy has created a very high level of tension within ECOWAS, which feels that its reform is being stolen from Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u126	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u127	It is a completely voluntary strategy: the French executive wants to cut short the demands of the reform of the CFA monetary zone by a minimum reform which removes, in particular, the name of the currency, in order to prevent a monetary reform of ECOWAS that would endanger its economic benefits in West Africa. An unchanged monetary structure, a hasty reform for the benefit of European multinationals, the desire to weaken the ECOWAS monetary project to take its place: all the elements are gathered so that the reform will only worsen the current situation. I invite you to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u128	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u129	In the name of the symbol – because, in diplomacy, symbols count almost as much as acts – our group could have abstained on this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u131	Unfortunately, beyond the important symbol of the end of the CFA franc, we must take into account all the reasons I have mentioned in general discussion, but also and above all the timetable for ratification. Why is France rushing to ratify the agreement first? Why not let the democratic debate take place first in the parliaments of the African countries concerned? There are many agreements that France waits, and waits for a long time, before ratifying; Why rush? There is also the fact that we are preventing ECOWAS from playing its role in the construction of an economic and monetary space in western Africa. For all these reasons, the group of La France insoumée will vote against the ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u132	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u133	I would like to reinforce the message that today we are turning a major page in our history. We do not only do so from a symbolic point of view. Turning the page is not to deny the past, but to take a step towards the new future that we are trying to draw. Let us have the courage to turn this difficult, symbolic and important page. We do so in cooperation with countries and peoples to which we are linked by strong, historic and friendly ties. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us have the courage together not to abstain – I turn to our socialist colleagues –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u134	I'm not a socialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u135	...and say it's time to turn this page in serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u136	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u137	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 57 Against 8
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u138	I call Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u139	Even though the vote has already taken place, I wanted to clarify certain things. First, we reaffirm our confidence in the UMOA States whose independence is strengthened. No one can doubt our will. Even the leaders of West African States, the leaders of UMOA, congratulate the French Government for having kept its promise. Although some envisaged a postponement of the reform due to the crisis of the covid-19, France kept its commitments. On the other hand, inflation also has its disadvantages: people with an informal economy will be able to continue to buy basic necessities with a stable currency that does not depreciate. That contradicts some of your comments, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Michel Herbillon also applauds]] Finally, I would like to add that our relations with the UMOA, the change in the name of the currency and the arrangements made are in the right direction and that it is the sovereign expression of the contracting States that we want. Having reaffirmed the expression of their sovereignty, and in order to ensure the stability of the new currency, France maintains its guarantees while withdrawing from the bodies in order to maintain confidence. We do not want chaos; We wish to launch a new phase of respectful cooperation with our friends in West Africa.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u140	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft (No. 2494, 3547). As no amendments have been made to this text, I shall put it to the vote under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u141	Unanimous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u142	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u143	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u144	The next item is the debate on the bill ratifying Order No. 2019-950 of 11 September 2019, which is the legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code (No. 2367, 3637).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u145	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u146	It is an honour for me to introduce today the bill to ratify the Order of 11 September 2019 as a legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code. In the coming days, we will talk about the fate and future of children. Our children. And I measure all the responsibility that is mine – I should say: who is ours. As you know, this is a matter of concern to our fellow citizens. The French look at us and expect us: 97% of them consider this reform important, and 59% consider it even a priority. But this is another figure that sheds light on the issues surrounding our debate this morning: 68% of French people think juvenile justice is not working well. Of course, like you, I have heard the many voices – perhaps too many – that have spoken outside the Chamber: the subject of juvenile delinquency provokes various reactions, often excessive, rarely measured. I have also heard the many voices that have been expressed in the Chamber. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Before speaking to you about the substance, I would therefore like to stress the involvement of parliamentarians on such a crucial subject for our society, and to thank almost all the groups for the long-term work carried out in the contact group set up by my predecessor, Mrs Nicole Belloubet, whose commitment and determination I warmly welcome here. Rarely have we seen such a concerted and truly co-constructed codification. This reform should therefore be the subject of a broad consensus among you. It is now in the Chamber that we are going to debate this: this democratic meeting must enable us to address this issue with the serenity, humanity and fairness it imposes. The stakes are too high to accommodate excesses or caricatures – that of some, who consider judicial reform too lax, that of others, who consider it too repressive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u147	Yet caricature is consubstantial to freedom of expression!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u148	I will not interrupt you, honourable Member, when you speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u149	Such commitments must not be made!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u150	I do not pretend to reconcile them, but I know your ability, ladies and gentlemen, to defend a balanced reform, in the interests of the minor alone. This reform is the result of more than ten years of consultations: four seal guards and almost as many majorities have worked to clarify and codify our law. The text that I present to you therefore enshrines all the fundamental principles of the 1945 Ordinance: the primacy of education, the mitigation of punishment and the specialization of actors. The successive reforms, which were stacked without consistency according to political alternations, had gradually transformed the 1945 order into an illegible text: after much work, from the Varinard commission in 2008 to the remarkable report by the rapporteur Jean Terlier and Mrs Cécile Untermaier published in 2019, this reform has now reached maturity. First of all, I intend to be clear and precise on the question of means: it goes without saying that reform cannot be implemented without more resources being devoted to it. In our jurisdictions, the assignment of 72 magistrates on 1 September 2020 and the deployment of 100 clerks allowed immediate reinforcement, anticipating school leavers and mobility. This is the case, for example, of the assignment of 4 clerks to Bobigny, thus responding to the requests made by the heads of jurisdiction. Within the judicial protection of young people, this reform has also been anticipated since 2018: 252 new jobs will thus be created by 2022. In addition, 86 educators were recruited from the community justice budget. I am well aware that the means, thus strengthened, would not have the desired effectiveness without a method of appropriating the reform. That is why I want to respond here to legitimate concerns, and reassure: the state of the stocks – forgiveness for this term neo-capitalistic – of business was finely analyzed by a dedicated mission of the General Inspectorate of Justice. In this context, only a dozen courts have been identified, which are already receiving special support. All departments of the Ministry are therefore fully mobilized to provide the courts with unprecedented support, which will be continued and intensified. I say this very clearly before you: the application of the reform leads to the reorientation of procedures, taking into account the seniority of the facts, the reintegration of the minor and, of course, the compensation of the victim. And let's just say: those who must be punished will be punished. There is an urgent need to equip the juvenile justice system in our country with effective procedural tools, ensuring a balance between a predictable criminal response and continuous educational work. Early commentators said that rapid justice called into question the primacy of education. This argument, however, does not stand up to a faithful reading of the new provisions. As you know, 45 per cent of cases are tried after the minor reaches 18 years of age. That is why we have chosen to delete the examination phase, which, I would remind you, is not currently bound by any deadline. The new procedure known as cassure allows for judicial intervention closer to the passage to the act, the hearing of the examination of guilt being held within a period of ten days to three months after the facts. This first hearing is crucial, as it ensures that a minor's fundamental right to have his or her guilt decided within a reasonable period of time is respected, even though he or she is now on average 18 months. Eighteen months, ladies and gentlemen! The procedure also allows for a more effective educational response, focusing on the responsibility of the minor, the position of the victim and the responsibility of the parents, in a time close to the charges. I want to emphasize the status of victims, who are called from the first conviction hearing and therefore no longer have to wait for the outcome of an unknown informal proceeding. The second hearing, dedicated to sentencing – educational measures or punishment – takes place within six to nine months of the conviction. Again, the victim has, of course, all his place. Between these two hearings, the period of educational testing gives meaning to the work of the educators of the judicial protection of young people. If the minor is found guilty of new facts, the cases may be consolidated, rather than a stack of disjointed files. The educational work will thus be part of a continuum, which can continue for five years after the sanction, and until the young person's 21th birthday. Rapid judgements in single hearings remain exceptional and subject to the careful assessment of specialized prosecutors, who must of course reconcile the seriousness of the facts with the personality of the minor. There are many safeguards; the court seised retains the possibility of returning to the principle of caesure. The effectiveness of an educational response is also measured by its flexibility. During the probation period, before the sanction hearing, the judge shall remain free to adjust the content of the measure; The children's judge may even extend it if he deems it necessary. Balances are well maintained. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The single educational judicial measure is a major step forward in this reform. It consists of four modules, which can be combined: insertion, repair, placement and of course health. You will find here all the components of the mission provided by the educators of the judicial protection of youth – PJJ – whose framework of intervention is thus clarified and made more flexible. JJP services are mobilized to meet these challenges. They have demonstrated their ability to adapt by continuing their essential missions during the health crisis, under more than special conditions. I want to pay a solemn tribute to their professionalism. This reform also meets their expectations: they were, remember, the first to demand this procedure of caesure, in order to work with the minor, without hypocrisy, once his guilt was acknowledged. [[Applause on the banks of the groupDemise of some of the banks of the LaREM group]] While 80 per cent of minors incarcerated are temporarily incarcerated, for short periods of time, without any concrete possibility of drawing up an exit project, another significant step forward under the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code is to strengthen alternatives to these temporary detentions, following the Justice Programming Act of 23 March 2019 and its programme for the establishment of closed educational centres. It is not necessary to be a professional or expert in this juvenile criminal justice system to consider that strengthened support, focused on a work life project, has more meaning and will be more effective than a few weeks' stay in Fleury-Mérogis Minors' Quarter. [[Mrs Cécile Untermaier applauds]] In particular, our shared objective is to reduce the share of recidivist and repeater minors. Magistrates, educators, lawyers, all actors have long argued that incarceration is a fatality, for lack of other options: this reform gives them reason. I am convinced, viscerally, that the new provisions will allow a return to common sense. Running away from a closed educational centre does not necessarily have to lead to detention. Conversely, recidivist minors whose serious acts call into question the social pact will be imprisoned. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I am committed to the democratic debate and believe that it can further enrich this reform. The Law Committee has already made several additional advances, such as the mandatory presence of the lawyer at free hearings, or the prohibition of using video conferencing for the detention of a minor. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Jean Terlier, for his unwavering determination to bring this reform to a successful conclusion and for the quality of his work in this direction for more than two years. I also thank Alexandra Louis, whose involvement has allowed the text to evolve on many points, always in the interests of the child. (Same moves. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds.) The debates in the Chamber are likely to lead to further progress on a few important issues: I am thinking in particular of the competence of the judge responsible for remanding the minor in custody. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, this opportunity to reform juvenile criminal justice is historic. Better protecting society, better protecting minors, providing them with opportunities for the future when they get out of crime, these are the immense challenges that bring us together today: I know that you will be, that we will be up to the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u151	Mr. Jean Terlier, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u152	[[Smile on the bench of commissions]] It is with undisclosed pleasure that we address the consideration of this bill amending the Order of February 2, 1945; We are proud, too, that, at the end of our work, we will be able to welcome the fact that we have collectively contributed to the development of a code, that of juvenile criminal justice. A former law student, then a lawyer, I feel a certain personal satisfaction to have contributed to one of those red or blue volumes that accompany us on a daily basis. You recalled, minister: a long and old reflection has been made on the codification of the 1945 Order, which has always been a totem. It took fifteen years, four seals, several parliamentary reports, all concluding on the need to codify. It is therefore with all humility that Cécile Untermaier, I would like to thank here, and I myself have approached this subject in the framework of an information mission, leading us to share the finding of too slow a criminal justice of minors, which has become illegible to practitioners, whether they be judges or lawyers, to the detriment of the minors involved as victims. Nicole Belloubet, whom I would also like to thank, has shown undeniable courage in addressing this delicate subject within the framework of the law of programming for justice, with a method and commitments, including that which all parliamentarians, senators and Members of Parliament, can take part in the reflection on this reform: work led by the Chancery with the judicial protection of young people, contact group composed of a representative of each political group, promise of a genuine parliamentary debate before the entry into force of the text on 31 March 2021. These commitments have been fulfilled, as noted by the Law Commission in more than 11 hours of rich debates. Let us turn now to the main thrusts of the reform that we are about to discuss. The first consists in the preliminary reminder of the main principles of constitutional value of the 1945 Ordinance: the primacy of education over repression, the mitigation of the criminal responsibility of the minor, which must not be judged as a major, but by a specialized justice of which the juvenile judge is the main actor. The second is the establishment of an age of criminal responsibility, which will enable France to respect its international commitments, in particular the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, with the introduction of a presumption of non-discrimination for minors under 13 years of age and countering a presumption of discernment for those aged 13 and over. Of course, this is a simple presumption, which we will have the opportunity to discuss. For two minors of 13 years of age do not resemble each other: it is necessary that the minor's discernment be the subject of an adversarial debate during the guilty hearing. Here we touch on the very essence of this juvenile criminal justice system, which is based on the fine assessment, on a case-by-case basis, of the minor's personality and its specificity. The third focus of the reform is to introduce a simpler, faster and more legible procedure for minors. The numerous amendments made to the 1945 Order made him lose his consistency. As you pointed out, Minister, the references to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure have made the procedure applicable to minors particularly long and complex, so that the average time for judgement today amounts to 17.8 months. The Juvenile Criminal Justice Code proposes a new procedure, known as "cestures", in three stages: a guilty hearing between ten days and three months after the summons of the minor; judicial educational testing, lasting from two to nine months; second hearing, fixing the sanction. This new procedure, which is the heart of this reform, has many advantages. It provides the judge with the opportunity to decide promptly on the guilt of the minor and thus to give him a readable answer. It makes it possible to base educational work with the minor on this judgment: the conviction will give the services of the PJJ a basis to enable the minor to become aware of the criminal law and his or her own responsibility. The victim also has his or her status recognized quickly: by registering as a civil party, he or she can obtain a decision of compensation at the time of the guilty hearing. Finally, the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code clarifies the distinction between educational measures, security measures and penalties, each of which is the subject of a separate title. One of its objectives is to simplify the system of educational measures. All the educational follow-up measures provided for in the 1945 Ordinance, whether they precede or follow the sentence, disappear for the benefit of the only judicial educational measure, which may be imposed by the juvenile judge or the court either before the sanction, on a provisional basis or after. Divided into four modules, insertion, placement, reparation, health, its content varies according to the needs identified and can be modified according to the evolution of the minor. Our work in the Law Commission has also made significant progress. We have adopted an amendment making it mandatory for the lawyer to be present at the free hearings. At the initiative of the chairman of the commission, we have increased the curfew to which minors can be subjected as part of a judicial educational measure. We have simplified the rules of cumulation between educational measures and penalties, as well as between the various modules, obligations and prohibitions of which a judicial educational measure may consist. We have allowed the police court to have a wider range of penalties, since the fines are not always adapted to the needs of the minor or to his educational rehabilitation. We have prohibited the use of video conferencing to decide whether to place a minor in pre-trial detention or to extend the pre-trial detention of a minor. We allowed the juvenile judge or the president of the juvenile court to order the other parties to withdraw, at the guilty hearing, when examining the minor's personal situation. We have made it compulsory to issue an educational interim measure as soon as the minor is placed in pre-trial detention. Finally, we have made it possible for the trial court to derogate, by a reasoned decision, from the automatic registration of perpetrators of sexual or violent offences in its own right, for decisions concerning a crime of a sexual nature. The debates that we are starting today should allow, I hope, further progress. In particular, like other Members of many parliamentary groups, I will introduce an amendment providing that the detention in custody of a minor, in the context of the single hearing or when he has failed to comply with the conditions of judicial review or of the detention under electronic supervision, be decided by the judge of freedoms and detention and not by the juvenile judge. Such a measure would allow a fresh and external view to be taken of remand in custody, which represents a particularly serious decision with consequences for the minor. It would also enable the constitutional requirement of impartiality to be met by avoiding the need for the juvenile judge to make a decision on his or her remand in custody, which would force him or her to analyse and assess the case in advance of the hearing. In conclusion, I would like to recall a sentence in the explanatory memorandum to the order of February 2, 1945: "The question of culpable childhood is one of the most urgent at the present time. I believe it is with the same concern that the 2020 legislator intends to respond to the challenge of child offenders. I firmly believe that the Code of Juvenile Criminal Justice, including through procedural reform, will contribute to a faster and more readable juvenile criminal justice system, which will continue to focus on education over law enforcement in the interest of the rehabilitation of the minor. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] That is the ambition of this reform. Its implementation will, let us be certain, be successful, in particular thanks to the considerable budgetary resources allocated to justice, in particular to juvenile criminal justice, during the current mandate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u153	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject beforehand tabled pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u154	Behind this modest bill, which only contains a single section, is a major amendment, which is intended to replace a code of nearly 280 articles with the iconic Children Offender Ordinance 1945. Beyond the judicial aspect, the 1945 Ordinance embodies a choice of society. Childhood is thought of there as the time of construction, a time not when we forgive everything, but when we consider that everything or almost everything is repairable, supermontable. This order is therefore a strong political principle, which is to place one's trust in each child, but also in each institution, and to invest society as a whole in understanding and accompanying this principle. This engages all of us in a bet on the future. This is one of the reasons why we opposed the choice made by Nicole Belloubet, then keepers of seals, to reform juvenile justice by order, at the turn of a government amendment presented in session. We were not the only ones, ladies and gentlemen, to oppose this choice. Our opinion has not changed since November 2018. You tell us, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that it is customary to exclude Parliament for a codification undertaking. This may be the case for constant codification, but this is not the case here. In her report to the President of the Republic to submit the order for his approval, Ms. Belloubet admitted: "If codification undertakings are usually carried out under constant law, the Government has made the choice to make a thorough change in the criminal procedure applicable to minors. So it is in depth that you have chosen to change this delicate matter. However, the legal innovations introduced in the criminal procedure applicable to children alone would have justified a real debate in Parliament. We know that the current government is disrespectful of the legislative power, but you do not mind that it is Parliament that has to legislate. If some here have fun explaining to me that this is what we are doing today, I reply in advance that the show is indeed beautiful and well run but that usually the actors do not applaud their own works.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u156	The debate we are starting today does not in any way replace a genuine parliamentary debate. As for those who doubt it, we can only refer them to the debates that have taken place in committee: two sittings to discuss 280 articles, under an urgent procedure, and 81 amendments adopted, more than half of which are editorial amendments – comma cases. Justice for our children deserves much better: it deserves us to examine in detail each of the articles to measure all the consequences of the profound changes that are being made. These amendments, as Professor of Law Christine Lazerges points out, pose a major risk of turning against these same children and are in breach of the spirit of the 1945 Ordinance. From the very appreciation of the trade union organisations and the main actors concerned, the consultation was simulated. An online questionnaire, composed of closed and oriented questions, was sent out in March 2019 to the various professionals involved in juvenile justice. A little less than a thousand of them responded, who were invited to comment on the project completed in less than ten days: difficult to consider this process as being up to the challenge. This is one of the first reasons for the adoption of this motion of rejection. It is true that practitioners have been demanding for many years a code dedicated to justice for children, which we demand with them. But this is not the objective of this text – it is not even the stated objective. This code would in no way have involved swindling the 1945 order to that extent: it could have been added to it. It is a true code dedicated to children that practitioners need, in accordance with the request of the UN Committee of Experts, which would deal with children at risk as a whole, from civilian to criminal. Moreover, this new code dedicated to criminal procedure alone is a missed appointment for the best interests of the child, envisaged here under the sole prism of delinquency and its repression. Would we be so afraid of our children? The suffering child is often the same as the child who commits an act of delinquency, which this text seems to ignore. I am well aware, minister, that you are going to try to surf between demands for stronger repression from the right and educational measures from our ranks. You do it on every bill, or almost every bill, by pretending to be a balance. But balance is not balance, nor justice. I know, Mr rapporteur, that you will continue to explain to us that the preponderance of the education component remains in place, even though the whole procedure codified here is going in the opposite direction. We are accustomed to this type of method, which often leads to failure and which seems irresponsible to me in view of the issues at stake here. A law is a bias, strong principles that are illustrated by the articles. Colleagues, it's not too late to do the right thing. That is why we propose that you adopt our motion to give us time to complete our work. The argument I have just put forward, however, is only one of several reasons to vote on it: it is the substance of the reform that should be the most decisive. We are extremely concerned about the spirit of this new code. We do not find in this text, from an ordinance on juvenile delinquents to a code of juvenile criminal justice, the ambitious choices for the future of children in difficulty that had been made in the aftermath of the Liberation. Yes, there would indeed be a need for a new breath, but that is not what is proposed here. Today, crime is much less than it was sixty years ago. However, since the beginning of the two thousand years and the flight of security laws, the principle of mitigating the criminal responsibility of children has been constantly contradicted and defeated. The 1945 text declared that "The question of culpable childhood is one of the most urgent of the present time," and that was indeed the case. The provisional Government of the French Republic then intended "to effectively protect minors, and in particular juvenile offenders. The urgency mentioned in this text was due to the very high level of juvenile delinquency as well as the ambition to want to repair, to succeed in protecting. I do not believe that those who drafted the ordinance at that time were treated as laxists; I hope you don't qualify them that way. I repeat: "effectively protect minors, especially juvenile offenders. The careful reading of your code shows that we are far from this idea, despite the repeated reaffirmation of the major inescapable principles of juvenile criminal justice: the primacy of education over repression, specialized justice. The proposed new procedure does not stand up to careful scrutiny, which reveals that these principles can often not be effective. Derogations and exceptions are legion and, on the pretext of reactivity, it is the specific nature of the justice of children that is being broken. An example of this is the new setback in the criminal trial: the time frame within which it is held destroys all the interest that this new procedure might have shown and eliminates the possibility of a real educational time before the trial. The indigence of the services of the judicial protection of young people and of the voluntary sector of child protection will make it almost impossible, in practice, to implement this measure quickly; This will leave neither an opportunity for a better knowledge of the child's personality, nor an opportunity to help him/her become aware of his/her actions and understand the meaning of the judicial procedure. Children's professionals are unanimous: the deadlines laid down in the text are unrealistic and therefore inapplicable in the current state of children's justice. The lack of resources and the congestion of the courts will lead prosecutors to make extensive use of the single hearing, which will save a second hearing. It's a risk we can't run. The immediate appearance of children, presented as an exception procedure, can be easily retained as the conditions for their use are insufficiently restrictive. It may apply to any recidivism, which is an absolute nonsense in the fight against crime. The children concerned may be convicted without any educational measures being taken against them. However, it is precisely the minors concerned by the possibility of appearing in a single court that need justice that takes the time and has the necessary hindrance to initiate reparation. On the other hand, this procedure will lead to an escalation of sanctions. This is the opposite of what should be done, both for the minor and for society, because turning your back on the priority of education is turning your back on the fight against recidivism. Let us not neglect the constant productivist pressure and the time constraints, which will force judges to use this procedure far too widely. Moreover, we do not see as a coincidence the possibility of resorting to it with broadness. All amendments to limit this risk have been rejected. We cannot go further in the discussion of this text unless these risks are assessed with all the necessary finesse. That is a new reason to vote on this motion to reject. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Do you mind, minister, I will also refer to unaccompanied minors – MNA. I believe that they do not pollute our debates but that it is the sick projections that are made about them that pollute their lives. They are the first to be affected by the expedient measures. Their particular vulnerability should have placed them at the centre of a code's concerns for children. A note from your services dated 5 September 2018 indicated that these children must be guaranteed "the establishment of a protection or a status, made indispensable by their minority and their isolation. She also observed that "these young people are most often incarcerated without a designated legal representative and with no educational follow-up from a departmental council or the PJJ. » We cannot imagine a code at this point silent on these children who are largely outside the rule of personalization of the criminal response and who, more than others, are incarcerated. They sometimes account for up to 50 per cent of the number of juvenile prisons, while they are only a few hundred in the country. An exceptional form of justice applies to these children whose life paths are sometimes similar to those of the children whom the 1945 Ordinance intended to protect. It could have been thought that, in the face of the arrival of children fleeing conflict and traumatic or trafficking situations, the reform of juvenile justice would aim to better address this new vulnerable public. But the opposite happens. The new Code is based on the emergency measures applied yesterday to isolated minors and tomorrow to all children. In contradiction with the definition of a minor, unaccompanied minors are subject to a permanent presumption of guilt: guilty of being migrants, suspects of not being real minors, suspects of not presenting their true identity. It is the same pattern that is generalised through your reform, where you always prefer the term "minors" to that of "children" – as well as, for unaccompanied minors, the first quality of a child is obscured by the legal characteristic. The MNAs do not appear in this text, and we wonder whether it is necessary to see one more step in their invisibility or, on the contrary, the starting point of this upheaval of the principles of the 1945 Order. The treatment of the most vulnerable is never left to the margin: it is a sign, a direction that in itself carries a vision of society and the treatment of individuals, which, in the long run, always affects all citizens. The purpose of this motion is therefore also to assess the impact of the new procedures on these children. The assessment that we propose to you, like the ones I mentioned earlier, can only be made by means granted to children's justice. Again, all professionals seem to be unanimous: the most educationally oriented measures cannot be applied, for lack of means. Just a year ago, the Defender of Rights of the time, Jacques Toubon, alerted us to the fact that such a reform would only meet the needs identified if it were accompanied by human and budgetary resources to match these challenges – something that we do not find in this text. For her part, Law Professor Christine Lazerges pointed out that the implementation of a reform presupposes a magisterial acceleration of the means given to juvenile justice – are you going to claim, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the case? – and said: "We must never forget that we cannot expect from the law what it cannot produce. With regard to the criminal justice of minors, one must bear in mind its poverty, in other words, its enormous lack of resources, including both its actors and experts and the press. » That is why 120 associations and personalities, not least, urge Parliament to demand that educational means be deployed so that an educator is not entrusted with more than twenty-five young people: beyond that, he may not be able to follow any of them properly. They also insist that the application of this procedural reform should be deferred while the courts are exsangued as a result of the pandemic. You will understand, for us this text is a renunciation, which stands on the worst and reason by fear. So, ladies and gentlemen, do not hide behind an emergency that is in no way demonstrated, and postpone the discussion of this decisive text for generations of children. This text does not contain the safeguards necessary to guarantee the specificity of juvenile justice and to protect us from a massive shift towards the only repressive register. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] We are rich in our children, give ourselves the time and expertise to have an informed vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u157	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (La France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u158	I would like to make a few points of answer to Mrs Faucillon on the motion she has just defended. Madam, you have essentially invoked three arguments which are supposed to show us that this text should be referred back to committee. In your opinion, in spite of the eleven hours spent debating it in committee, this text would have been drawn up in Hussardian language and without consultation. This assessment seems incorrect to me, and it probably does not correspond to the feelings of many Members who have taken part in the contact group – I am thinking in particular of Stéphane Peu, who belongs like you to the GDR Group. Real parliamentary work has been done since the adoption of an amendment to reform juvenile justice in the context of the review of the Justice Programming Act. This work was done within the framework of the contact group, but also in the Chancery and elsewhere – I believe that our colleague Ugo Bernalicis organized a symposium in the National Assembly to discuss this topic. As part of the fact-finding mission on juvenile justice entrusted to us, Cécile Untermaier and I interviewed more than 200 people before submitting our report. Finally, the Law Commission heard from a large number of people who had come to the national representation to tell them what they thought of the text. In these circumstances, I find it difficult to argue that there has been no consultation, and I do not understand how you can invite us to sweep away the eleven hours of debate in committee and, above all, the two years of preparatory work. Your second argument is that the procedure provided for in the text will be much less telling and will favour repression over education. In fact, it is not because the text provides that the hearing on guilt is organized quickly that the educational aspect is neglected. As you know, the question of guilt does not usually pose any difficulties for a minor: it is easily established that he stole a bicycle or a telephone. But guilt will play an educational role by allowing the minor concerned to rebuild in the educational test phase, conducted with the PJJ for a period of six to nine months. If you think that a nine-month job, performed in a personalized way with each minor, is to favour repression at the expense of education, I admit that I do not understand you very well. Finally, your third argument concerns the issue of unaccompanied minors, which I am not going to evade. There is no doubt that under the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, an unaccompanied juvenile offender will always be considered in the same way as a French juvenile offender. Given this principle, specific procedures are provided for these minors who encounter certain difficulties, and the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors is of particular interest in allowing a thorough assessment of the measures most suited to a particular minor and his or her career. In any event, I repeat, an unaccompanied juvenile offender will never be treated differently from that of a French juvenile offender. [[Applause on the benches of the group Acter ens and some benches of the group LaREM]] These are the reasons why I will oppose this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u159	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u160	Mrs Faucillon, you could at least have adapted your speech to the one I had just given. I have used the word "children" – and I will still use it many times, because it's a lot of children here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u161	This word is not in the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u162	You complain about a lack of consultation, but say rather that the consultation that has been conducted does not suit you! Against dogmatism, I can't do anything – and these are subjects, I say very quietly, where dogmatism has no place.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u163	Moral lessons, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u164	Madam, I did not interrupt you when you spoke, and I would now like you to let me answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u165	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u166	We're in the assembly here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u167	With regard to consultation, the Varinard Committee, which brought together thirty-two parliamentarians, issued seventy proposals in 2008. In 2009, a draft bill was drafted. From 2014 to 2016 were consulted: associations for the protection of children, UNICEF, the defender of children, magistrates, the conference of presidents, prosecutors, the Court of Cassation, the French Association of Youth and Family Magistrates, magistrates' unions, the PJJ, the National Advisory Commission on Human Rights, child psychiatrists... In all, more than 1,000 people have been consulted! Forgive me, but I can't let you say things were done in catini.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u168	Like the big debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u169	Then there were the parliamentary missions, notably that entrusted to Senators Michel Amiel and Catherine Troendlé. The National Assembly also discussed these issues at length and, in March 2019, a questionnaire was sent to all professionals involved in juvenile justice – magistrates, professionals from the PJJ and the authorized voluntary sector – and many answers were received. So, please, let's not start these debates on untruths! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM groups, and Dem]] Finally, you kindly took me off by saying that you were used to my little music and that when I talk about balance, it's actually balance. I just went to check the definition of these words: balance, Member, is the practice of balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u170	We come to the explanations of vote. Each speaker will have two minutes. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u171	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I am very happy to intervene just after the minister's intervention: it allows me to tell him that, yes, lies are unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u172	Coming from a specialist like you, it's disturbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u173	It's very simple, when I'm confronted with it, I have the hairs that line up! The concertation, well let's talk about it. Yes, you've interviewed people, you've heard people, but have they been listened to? Did they all tell you that this new code is really great, magical, too good, that they agree 100%? No, they were formed into a collective that we invited to take part in a symposium in the National Assembly in order to denounce this new code of juvenile criminal justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u174	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u175	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] That is the response of the people who participated in your consultation. We know the music, it's the same on all the texts: each time you tell us you've had a big debate... Really, Madam President, our colleagues are hot this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u176	[[Laugh. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I don't think you have anything to do with it, colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u177	I take this as a compliment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u178	That's an observation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u179	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Anyway, if I could have a little bit of silence to be able to say a few words, it might be nice to me. If you don't, it's too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u180	It's true we never hear you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u181	If the Members of the House of Representatives of France are in favour of this motion to reject, it is because we believe that things are happening in haste. Of course, it has been a year and a half since we had the draft text, which we were able to study and amend, but it is the debate that is going too fast. The examination of the text is carried out under the accelerated procedure, the debate has been extremely rapid in committee and the only favour we have been given is that we have ten minutes in the general debate today instead of five! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] No, it is not satisfactory to talk about juvenile criminal justice in these conditions! Moreover, it is not satisfactory at all to talk only about criminal justice, when it would have been necessary to talk about children in general. For this reason alone, this text should be rejected and the work put on the job by coordinating civil and criminal matters. You don't want to do it, preferring to walk on one leg – but you'll end up falling!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u182	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u183	[[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] The Liberties and Territories Group will not associate itself with this motion of rejection. Even if this code is not exempt from reproach, starting with that of having been made by order despite its importance, it seems to us necessary to go to the bottom of the matter on this reform of the founding text of juvenile justice, which is the order of 2 February 1945. This is justified in terms of loss of coherence and inaccessibility for individuals and professionals, as well as in terms of the dialogue and exchange work carried out in committee. Of course, we will make our contribution to the text in the form of amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u184	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u185	I have to admit that I have experienced some discomfort by going into the annex to the order that we are being asked to ratify, which is the new code of juvenile criminal justice. The preliminary article of this code alone summarizes the cause of this malaise: it is an article which proclaims legal principles, but in which one does not feel the slightest ounce of emotion, whereas this code is intended to deal with the fate of children in conflict with justice, thus children in danger. We are so far from the emotion and pride of reading the preamble to the 1945 Order, a preamble that reminded us of how precious the children of this country were, even though they were guilty. This preamble proudly, generously and even affectionately stated: "The attached draft ordinance attests to the intention of the Provisional Government of the French Republic to protect minors effectively, especially juvenile offenders. » The articles that follow the preliminary article shall be stacked to the same extent. Elsa Faucillon has just pointed out some points revealing that behind the principle of the primacy of education over repression are exceptions, niches that make children escape from everything that makes the specificity of juvenile justice, by an acceleration of procedures to all cries. Combined with a glaring lack of resources dedicated to children's justice, this new code will not be able to judge well, so to be effective and efficient in the long term. To judge quickly, without agreeing the time and means of education, is to judge children badly – our marmailles, as they say in La Réunion – is to judge future adults badly. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] If, unfortunately, our Assembly does not have the power to influence the means granted to juvenile justice and its valuable partners, it has the power to postpone consideration of this text so that we can correct anything that contradicts the ambition of the new code. That is why the Members of the GDR Group will vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u186	Mr Stéphane Mazars has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u187	Unsurprisingly, the La République en marche group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. As Mr Le Garde des Seales and the rapporteur have pointed out, the moment is important: we are going to do legislative work, and this work has been expected for many years by the players in juvenile justice. The subject is old: here is the Varinard report submitted to Minister Rachida Dati in her time; the important work carried out under the aegis of the Christiane Taubira seal keeper, who was committed to reforming and codifying juvenile criminal justice – an approach which, unfortunately, could not be completed; or the work of the Senate – including the excellent Amiel report – and of the National Assembly – I welcome the remarkable work done by Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier for the Law Commission. [[Rires on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] The text before us therefore does not start from a blank sheet, but has been fed into successive work and debate in committee. Note, Mrs Faucillon, that Mrs Buffet took part in these debates, and that she has often shared the mindset of Mr. the keeper of seals in particular her will to preserve the soul of the 1945 order...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u188	I share that too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u189	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... and to give priority to education over repression in the text that is proposed to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u190	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u191	The Republicans Group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. We certainly recognize that the text is not completely completed: it essentially merely reproduces the philosophy of the 1945 Ordinance – which we agree with, it is true, but which is no longer fully in line with the childhood and delinquency of today's minors. We regret that it does not properly adapt to this social problem as we perceive it. Perhaps it was because the work was not the subject of a public debate, but it took place in the corridors, in closed committees. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In any event, we believe that there is an urgent need to clarify the criminal procedure that applies to minors, since its publicity is, in itself, a deterrent to juvenile offenders. As much as we do not fully share the balance reached by the text as a result of too little work, we agree with the need to make the procedure for minors clear and public. In many territories, some people take advantage of the fog surrounding juvenile justice to organize crime systems. We will not therefore vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u192	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u193	We know the sincerity of Elsa Faucillon with regard to the subjects that occupy us; I also confess my incomprehension with regard to what I hope is not a position on his part.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u194	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u195	I sincerely hope so because, as has been amply stressed, this text is the result of genuine consultation, extensive negotiations and a welcome parliamentary work, led by Cécile Untermaier and Jean Terlier. A new stage is opening today. I fully share some of your concerns, Mrs Faucillon. Yes, we need to establish a general code for minors as soon as possible – everyone agrees, from the Republicans to the Democratic and Republican Left.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u196	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u197	However, do we have to put a stop to the work in progress...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u198	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u199	[[Applause on a few benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] ...and lose another one or two years? I don't believe it. The commission has done a serious job. We expressed our differences and discussed topics that will be exciting to discuss again in the meeting. We have to move on. You who advocate the primacy of education over repression, a principle that I share, recognize that this philosophy was lost after thirty-nine amendments to the 1945 Ordinance. The juvenile criminal justice code that we are about to examine will return to this initial sense, thanks to the interesting mechanisms that it proposes – the caesure, in particular. So the MoDem Democratic Movement and related Democrats Group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u200	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u201	Like my colleague Elsa Faucillon,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u202	Your friend!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u203	...I felt sad when Nicole Belloubet, at the turn of an amendment tabled in public session, made the choice to reform juvenile justice by order. That is why many members of the Socialist and Related Group voted against the March 2019 law on programming and reform for justice – as we said and said again, and I will not hesitate to repeat it. I also agree with his denunciation of the current pressure on legislative work: the task has become very difficult for Members and administrators, and we are not doing a good job. This must stop: we will not keep at this rate for long.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u204	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u205	The text before us is very technical, and has imposed a great deal of decryption on each of the Members. I sincerely say this: he has demanded a great deal of effort on my part, and I thank Jean Terlier for taking the initiative of a fact-finding mission, thanks to which we may have taken a little advance on other Members. The complexity of juvenile justice does not facilitate work, especially since it is the way of the order that has been chosen, not the way of the bill. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I am therefore not well placed to judge whether the text can give the impression that it has been sufficiently prepared or not. I do not pretend to know everything, but I know a little more about it than at the beginning, when the text was tabled. The Socialist and Related Group takes note of the sentiment that led the Democratic and Republican Left to put forward a motion of rejection; For our part, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u206	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u207	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u208	The Action Together group will oppose the motion to reject it for two reasons. The first is the form: we are still sceptical about such motions, because they reflect, in a way, the refusal to debate on the substance. We prefer to exchange, debate and move forward, even though we have disagreements. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The second reason lies in the bottom. I have no doubt that, together with many colleagues from all walks of life, we share the same objective: we consider that the minority is a time when we learn to become autonomous and responsible, that this time must be protected – mainly in the event of errors of course – but that society must also provide answers to acts that do not comply with the law. We must leave a door open to minors and give them a new chance to cultivate their budding perfection, and that is the purpose of this bill. Therefore, our group is totally opposed to the motion to reject it beforehand. We will vote on the bill and participate in the debates. Despite our disagreements, let us exchange, discuss and enrich the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u209	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u210	When, in the context of the Justice Programming Bill, Ms. Belloubet proposed to legislate by Ordinance on Juvenile Justice, the IDU and Independents Group agreed to do so, provided that a working group was established. It was held, and allowed the groups who were willing to participate to carry out a real job. Mrs Faucillon raises major issues, and it is precisely for this reason that we must debate, exchange, clarify our disagreements and try to improve the text. We will therefore vote against the motion to reject, because we want to debate it. We can also regret the way the debates are organised, but we will talk about them later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u211	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u212	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 79 Number of votes cast 77 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 8 Against 69
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u213	General tour of the rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u214	First of all, I would like to inform you that the discussion of Article 1 is reserved until after the amendments to the additional Article after Article 11. In the general debate, Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u215	Before I go into the discussion of the text, I want to talk about children in danger. Children at risk are 3 million children below the poverty line and 600,000 poorly housed children; it is a generation of 15-24 year olds where suicide is the second leading cause of death; 120,000 children are reported to be at risk each year, and 300,000 children are accompanied by social assistance for children – ESA. It is essential to recall this state of affairs, because in this context, our central objective should be to combat child risk and poverty. Yet that is not what we are going to discuss. We are going to look at a juvenile criminal justice code, where we could have discussed a children's code. Yes, we could have discussed it: Minister Adrien Taquet would certainly have been in favour of it, if political impetus had been given in this direction from the beginning of the mandate; Everyone would have agreed, from left to right, and we would have reached that perfect balance that the majority so much liked. But that's not the choice you made. Moreover, the subject was introduced by amendment and dealt with by order, under particularly chaotic conditions. The International Convention on the Rights of the Child calls for a comprehensive approach to the child. This is what the 1945 Ordinance stated: education must take precedence over repression. However, the primacy of education over repression cannot be applied only in the criminal aspect: this principle involves civil measures as much as criminal measures – children's judges know that they apply it on a daily basis. I want to give you some quotes from the Defender of Rights – the old one, and the new one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u216	Good sources!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u217	Excellent, indeed. The former Defender of Rights said: "The Defender of Rights observes, finally, that the Code multiplies derogations and exceptions, which undermines its legibility, and considerably restricts the effectiveness of the affirmed principles. With regard to these principles, Mr. Mazars said earlier that we were a number of people who agreed with the minister in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u218	It wasn't obvious...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u219	We obviously agree on the main principles, and we would be all the more so if they were declined and affirmed in this article after article code, which is not the case with the Defender of Rights, which I am not the only one to share. The new Defender of Rights, in her opinion a few days ago, wrote: "In the end, the regime for minors tends to be in line with that of adults, which the Defender of Rights can only regret. Of course, I will not repeat all the arguments they have put forward: I refer you to the sound reading of the opinions in question, since they are available to anyone who wants to read them. We could have taken advantage of the examination of this text to put new words into circulation. Rather than talking about "child delinquent," we could talk about "children in conflict with the law," as some countries do, which is to affirm the primacy of education over repression. When a juvenile is considered to be an offender, one would rather want to provide a criminal response. The code is far too long for me to write down all the subjects: it would take me at least an hour and a half. I will address only one element that seems to me central and fundamental: time, an essential given, in life of course, but especially in the justice of children. You introduced the principle of caesure. Most people, if not almost all professionals, agree with this principle. But you had the wrong idea to lock him in in such a time frame – at least ten days and no more than three months – that one wonders why this caesure should be introduced, and why it should work in this way. This is, moreover, rather strange, since these same time limits are, in the present law, those of the early appearance, i.e. the equivalent of the immediate appearance for minors, which all professionals point out as being far removed from the ideal of justice. It is therefore this model that you take for the delays of the caesure. Today, in the event of an indictment, there is certainly no time limit of three months, but present-day educational measures can be introduced that allow, not waste of time, since the educators of the judicial protection of young people intervene from that moment, but to work on the facts, and on the recognition of the facts. Then comes the hearing, fixed at the right time, and not absolutely at three months, so that the child could do a job on what happened and understand why he is there today, which is also interesting for the victim – because, for her too, the three-month delay is expeditious! In short, you think your three-month guilty hearing is time-saving. But it is not enough for the judge to say that the child is guilty for the minor to have done a job on himself, on his own guilt! That is what this period serves. You, three months after the guilty hearing, propose to discuss the sentence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u220	There are educational measures in between!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u221	I understand, dear colleague, but these are confined within a mandatory period of three months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u222	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Up to nine months!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u223	Nine months because there will be the second hearing, and everything else! You don't want to hear it, but I'm telling you, this work is useful to get to the audience in good conditions. We disagree and I will not need your explanations or your pedagogy when the time comes. What is your goal? Manage flows.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u224	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u225	It's not about children, it's about flows! Why are you setting this three-month deadline? I remind you, as you can tell us from all the sauces, that you must "trust the judge." You say you trust him, you give him a palette of tools... and now you're setting him a mandatory deadline!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u226	[[Exclaims on FI and GDR benches]] You only have two minutes left, and you didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u227	You'd have to have something smart to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u228	No provocation, please. Go on, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u229	Mr Balanant, the people who listen to us will enjoy what you have just said. You add exceptions to your caesure principle: the single hearing. There she is, guilt and punishment at the same time! We understood that, as a result, the caesure was to make pretty. Another new feature is that we can impose sentences in practice. That is why your code is more repressive than the current state of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u230	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u231	It's okay, I don't blame you, you have the right to defend this. But that's the reality. How could we have improved the primacy of education over repression? That is the fundamental question. I want to highlight three points which we will have time to discuss throughout the discussion of the amendments. First, I repeat, a children's code including civil and criminal law would have been a point of support for re-priming education over repression. Secondly, the presumption must be made irrefragable. Set it at 13 if you want, while all our neighbors are 14 years old, but make it irrefragable. This does not mean that nothing can be done: educational measures can be taken – but in civil! Thirdly, full specialization is a principle that must be declined: specialization for the police court, specialization for the judge of freedoms and detention, specialization for the investigating judge, specialization for the prosecutor, including in small courts, where this is not the case. You see, we could have done some nice things. You don't. Yes, Members of Parliament La France insoumée will oppose this text...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u232	That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u233	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] ...and when the time comes, we will hand over everything I have just indicated in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u234	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u235	The crimes committed by minors represent only 1 per cent of the sentences handed down. Statistically, the share of minors in general delinquency remains stable, below 20 per cent. The figures are clear: juvenile delinquency has not increased in our country in the last ten years, Mr. Keeper of Seals. Indeed, the crime dealt with by prosecutors' offices affected 233,000 minors in 2018, i.e. 3.5% of the population aged 10 to 17 on 1 January 2019, compared with 240,000 in 2016 and 224000 in 2017. On the other hand, offences that were not prosecuted 15 years ago are now prosecuted, such as violations of authority, insults to agents, violence against bus drivers or teachers. There is a tendency to increase the number of crimes committed and to rejuvenate the perpetrators. A lot of violence is being committed in educational homes, and there are also more sexual assaults and offences related to small-scale drug trafficking. Crimes against people have also increased. More than the increase, juvenile delinquency has evolved in its nature, but society is also more intolerant than before to the issue of violence. As many sociologists, including Laurent Mucchielli, have shown, we are seeing in society as a whole, and not only among minors, a decline in violent behaviour, accompanied by a decrease in tolerance towards violence. In other words, paradoxically, the more violence diminishes, the more sensitive one is to residual forms of violence and the less one feels secure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u236	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u237	Exactly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u238	Especially since today, if you are far less physically abused, you are much more exposed to violence than in the past, which can be explained in particular by the role of the media and social networks. If we therefore consider it necessary to deconstruct this alarmist discourse, it is also to avoid overburdening our youth with all our evils. Demonstrate pedagogy, understanding, and try to judge children for what they are, precisely children, in a context that is certainly evolving: this is the interest of the criminal justice of minors of the twenty-first century. Pointing at and repressing without the will to contextualize and educate will never do justice. The 1945 Juvenile Justice Ordinance was able to pass through time as it did, because it was able to establish a founding principle: that of the primacy of education in the criminal response to child delinquency. This is, therefore, first and foremost the way we look at it and at the evolution of society, which leads us today to want to revise this ordinance in a different way, adapted to our current environment. Is today's childhood more in danger than yesterday's childhood? Most certainly, given the threats to her through the developments of the phenomena mentioned above and which many parents have difficulties in understanding. However, let us always bear in mind that victims and perpetrators often find themselves in the same individuals, provided that the social heritage weighs on them very early. Victims and authors at the same time, because, because of age, these children cannot fully understand the workings in which they embark and the harm they can cause to society. This is how they can find themselves in spite of them in a logic of violence and must be complicit in a criminal act without taking full measure of it. It is therefore upstream of the transition to action that everything is played. The primacy of education is essential; It raises the question of the meaning of the educational sanction and the awareness of the acts committed so as not to commit them any more. Law enforcement alone will never solve anything for children and adolescents in conflict with the law. They can only become aware of their actions if we educate them through the educational sanctions that are already a constraint on them. France has a repressive arsenal of the most important in Europe. In 2018, 92.8% of prosecutionable cases involving at least one minor were prosecuted or otherwise prosecuted. The increase in the rate of criminal response is also accompanied by a greater severity of the decisions. Thus, the number of minors in pretrial detention increased by 39 per cent between 1 January 2015 and 1 January 2019. Today, almost half of the penalties imposed on minors are penalties – community service, imprisonment with or without a stay – while, in the light of international principles of juvenile justice, educational measures should be the majority. In France, prison sentences can be imposed at the age of 13. Apart from Great Britain, France is the only country that incarcerates minors the most. Moreover, the age of criminal responsibility, i.e. the age below which a minor cannot be criminally prosecuted, whatever he or she has done, is not fixed in France. The reference has always been the criterion of discernment, freely appreciated by prosecutors and then by juvenile judges. Thus, children of 10 or 11 years of age may be subject to criminal prosecution. A judge will be brought before him or her and a trial will be held even if, whatever the facts committed, only educational measures can be applied to him or her. This reform envisages setting this threshold of criminal responsibility at the age of 13, which we welcome as progress, while regretting that the judge can derogate from it. For our Freedom and Territory Group, the presumption of irresponsibility must be irrefutable in view of its full effectiveness. We will also propose a number of amendments, including raising the age at which educational measures can be imposed from 10 to 13 years, which are real sanctions. We will also request the deletion of the article of the Code which allows the minor accused to be excluded from the benefit of the minority apology, but also to provide that the age of the minor to be taken into account in the pre-trial proceedings is the age at the time of the facts rather than the age at the day of the measure to which he is subject. We also wish to prohibit any possibility of detention, i.e. any measure of deprivation of liberty with a view to questioning by the police or the gendarmerie under the coercion of a child under 13 years of age, whereas the Code allows it for children from 10 years of age. In the same vein, we will propose to limit the duration of pretrial detention of the minor, to eliminate the too wide possibilities for extension of police custody and to avoid as much as possible returning children to assize courts. In short, we will oppose anything that brings the justice of children closer to adult justice. Let us ask the question: does adult justice need to be done to try children who find themselves in conflict with the law in spite of them? Indeed, it is regrettable that measures and sanctions are aligned in a similar way, reflecting a high porosity of the boundary between juvenile justice and the justice of adults. That the law arises in the face of criminal acts, sometimes criminal, is necessary but within a framework that can be heard and understood by these children and adolescents. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] The constant references in this text to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are of concern. An autonomous code for children, bringing together the provisions of children at risk and children in conflict with the law, would obviously have been preferable. However, we note significant progress in the use of restorative justice: the introduction of criminal mediation, which we will try to specialize in minors, and the compulsory assistance of the minor by a lawyer, even if we regret the procedure for the immediate presentation of the minor, which restricts the rights of the defence. Above all, we note a better follow-up by the juvenile judge of judicial measures, which will allow the modules to adapt over time, provided that they are not seen as sanctions but as reparations. The reform of the founding text of juvenile justice, the Ordinance of 2 February 1945, had become inevitable, as a result of the numerous changes that had taken place since its adoption. It had gradually lost its coherence and became scarcely accessible to both juvenile criminal justice professionals and litigants. However, this reform will only demonstrate its effectiveness if it is accompanied by a strengthening of human resources at all stages of the delinquent journey. For a long time, many professionals have challenged the indigence of means: the lack of preventive and child protection services, the lack of social workers to ensure, within appropriate time frames, ordered educational measures, and the lack of clerks and magistrates to judge within a reasonable time. With the health crisis, these difficulties have obviously worsened and many believe that it would be illusory to think that in March 2021, the planned date for the implementation of the reform, these difficulties will be overcome. However, we hope that this ratification bill will lead to a more consistent judicial response within a reasonable time. In this sense, the proposed new architecture of juvenile criminal proceedings is an interesting step forward. [[Mr. Erwan Balanant applauds]] It is guided by the red thread that repressive thinking cannot be the only answer that the Libertés et territoires group will address the discussion of this text. Indeed, one can still be dubious in the face of the display, which is to state the primacy of the educative, and the many exceptions that follow. Repression feeds feelings of incomprehension and hatred, while education, on the other hand, allows an awareness of the actions taken. It was the philosophy of the 1945 Order and it is the philosophy that must continue to guide us all. As long as it permeates our work, our group will not oppose this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u239	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u240	When the ordinance on juvenile delinquents was published on 2 February 1945, France was experiencing the end of a terrible war, whose horror had been felt by the civilian population and which left irremediable consequences. The young people had not been spared and many were suffering or even breaking the law. The provisional Government of the French Republic knew that the future of our country was based on its youth. It was with the awareness of the hope that these children represented that the 1945 Order was the foundation of an educational and protective philosophy towards delinquent childhood. Seventy-five years after its ratification, the principles of this ordinance are still very modern. With this text, the French state wanted to put an end to correction houses and redemption, by promoting education. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This order represents a major turning point in our country's judicial policy. In his explanatory statement, the assumption is clear: "There are few problems as serious as those related to child protection, and among them those related to the fate of children brought to justice. France is not rich enough of children to have the right to neglect anything that can make them healthy. The first objective set out in this preamble is the protection of children, not the punishment of juvenile delinquency. Words make sense. A delinquent child is above all a child in danger, that's what this prescription reminds us. Children brought to justice cannot therefore be subject to adult justice. The future code must stick to this approach. Today, I hear that the words "childhood" or "children" would no longer be appropriate to speak of young minors. Yet these terms are adapted to this particular moment of life. According to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1989, adopted by the United Nations and ratified by France, "a child means every human being under 18 years of age, unless the majority is attained earlier under the legislation applicable to him or her. Similarly, the Declaration of the Rights of the Child of 1959, the General Assembly of the United Nations defines that "the child, because of his or her lack of physical and intellectual maturity, needs special protection and special care, including appropriate legal protection". These two major instruments ratified by France remind us that a child enjoys special protective rights until he becomes an adult. I do not deliberately use the term "major", because I think we should, in fact, protect every child at risk by limiting the threshold effects. Being 18 is not always an adult, we know. Childhood is the time of the construction of any adult in the future, a time peculiar to each, which can be longer depending on the experience. The educative must take into account this time, particularly long for some. It is a moment in the life of learning, both in terms of knowledge and knowledge as well as know-how. There is a fragility inherent in childhood, which we must not forget. With the creation of a juvenile criminal justice code, we must allow every child in difficulty to find his or her way to integrate fully into our society. In the GDR Group, we believe that educational measures are the first answers to be given, with repressive measures to be considered only in specific cases, as in criminal cases. In accordance with its international commitments and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, France must follow three fundamental principles in the investigation of cases concerning delinquent children: the primacy of education over repression, a specialized court for minors, and the reduction of responsibility according to age. The many reforms to the 1945 Order have gradually changed its original philosophy. While some have reinforced the primacy of education over repression, most have moved away from it. We would have liked the amendments made to this text to return to that original philosophy, so the debates we have had in the Committee on Laws have not reassured us. Yet, educational measures are yielding encouraging results. I would like to commend the work done by professionals involved in the judicial protection of young people, which enables many children to integrate into our society. Behind a criminal act, there is always a complex process specific to the history of each child. As a result, it does not seem efficient to judge only the act committed: one must understand the path that led the child to commit this act, in order to respond with appropriate solutions. It is only by working on the reasons for this gear that we can get the child out of this vicious circle. We therefore believe that the educational response given to this process and the move to action makes it possible to combat recidivism more effectively. The challenge behind this debate between educational and repressive measures is that of the means given to justice and the protection of children in our country. Many professionals say that the means are not up to them, but it is not because these means are lacking that we must, in the name of the speed of justice, snack on the process and the educational time. On the contrary, additional resources must be allocated to the judicial protection of young people and to social assistance for children. For the latter, there is an urgent need for the departments to provide more resources so that they can work to meet the needs. Not all departments have the same resources to carry out their missions. The Court of Auditors points out in a report published on 30 November that child protection is an inappropriate policy for children's time. This report highlights the lack of common frameworks between departments, resulting in territorial inequality, and the lack of long-term thinking. Judges call into question a multiplicity of bodies whose tasks are entangled, whose means are limited and whose coordination is time-consuming. The report also calls into question the complex organization of this system, which is at the crossroads of several ministries and involves both an administrative and a judicial authority. The Court of Auditors also recommends promoting training and integration pathways beyond the age of 18 and even, if necessary, 21 years. These recommendations should be implemented quickly. The work of the commission of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and youth has shown that the health crisis must be an opportunity to re-design ESA's missions, role and cooperation. Many previous parliamentary work has also suggested avenues for improvement. Child protection has its full place in our debate today. That is why we called for the creation of a children's code covering both aspects. In the face of this code of juvenile criminal justice, we defend and defend this other vision by means of our amendments. Words have meaning, and this choice is not trivial. We regret the presentation of a code dedicated solely to criminal law, to the detriment of a new code dedicated to justice for children, which could have brought together all the civil and criminal provisions concerning children at risk. It would then have been the reaffirmation, in law, of the best interests of the children. I do not think that the one presented to us today achieves this objective. Last Tuesday, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, hundreds of lawyers, magistrates, clerks and educators expressed their concern before the first court in France for children, that of Bobigny. All regret the repressive logic induced by this text and the lack of resources. You said that the reform would be accompanied by human resources, thanks to the recruitment of seventy-two magistrates, clerks and legal assistants. These announcements are obviously necessary and expected. However, we also need to shift additional funding to the institutions that provide judicial and educational follow-up to child offenders. Finally, on the form, we can only regret the method used – that of the order – because, if the setting up of a working group upstream is to be welcomed, the law must be made in Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] As a result, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will defend, throughout our debates, a project that is in line with the philosophy of the 1945 Order, drawing on the expertise of women and men who bring justice and child protection to life on a daily basis. If the text were to remain as it stood, the GDR group would vote against ratification of the order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u241	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u242	[[Mrs Marie-George Buffet acquiesce]] What criminal justice do we want for our children? It is this question that we will have to answer, and the answer we will give is committed, but above all the future of these children. To answer this societal question, we must first recall who they are. First of all, I am not one of those who, with a certain nostalgia, asserts that the juvenile delinquency of our time would be more important than that of the past. I do not think that today's youth is worse than yesterday's, but simply that it is very different and that it expresses itself and lives in an age that does not resemble any other. We can no doubt mention a rejuvenation of these juvenile delinquents and new forms of delinquency: our criminal response must adapt to contemporary reality. More specifically, who are the children who break the law? I have often met them in my life as a lawyer and I must say that, while all have the common point of having, despite their very young age, lived a lot, each of their stories is singular. There are those who are arrested for isolated acts, and whose passage before a police officer or magistrate will suffice to stop the drift. There is the teenager who breaks up family and school, the one who runs away in the evening, goes to siphon gasoline to do scooter rides without helmets before going to smoke some cannabis, and to which his parents no longer manage to impose any authority. And then there are those who have signed up for a course of crime, often very young, caught especially in the cycle of drug trafficking: at 11 years old, watchmen; At the age of 14, sellers – "coalners" – for a future of the most uncertain, driven by the lure of gain, the quest for recognition or that of a framework that they otherwise lack. The most striking thing is that some are anchored in a form of nihilism that consists of living from hour to hour, day to day, without the slightest meaning given to their existence. They integrate as a kind of fatality the fact that they risk prison or even death. Let me share with you an excerpt from the book Les Minots, by the Marseille journalist Romain Capdepon, which I invite you to read. He describes the journey of a young trafficker from the 14th arrondissement of Marseilles, his entry into the traffic, banal: "He was hanging in a city of the 14th. The network operated under his nose and one of his 16-year-old friends was one of them. Yaya liked to settle down with him, spend time, blur her mind by chaining the joints. And then, one day, the manager needed a watchman. Yaya was just 13. The next day, the seller was wearing pale. He was wearing a bag full of 250 grams of cannabis. Value: 1500 euros. Yaya, who has been out of school for a year, has been aspired by the Network in just two days. » Behind these criminal or criminal acts are often difficult family and personal paths. Approximately two out of three minors placed in a closed educational centre were monitored by the child welfare services. This does not excuse the transition to action, but allows us to understand and work to avoid repetition. In addition, according to a 2003 Senate report, one in five adolescents suffer from mental disorders. It is therefore to this diversity of facts, paths and personalities that we must be able to respond, in the interests of the minor, but also in the interests of society. To give an answer, let us keep simplistic proposals and Manichean reasoning, in one sense or the other, which undoubtedly have the virtue of contenting one part of the opinion, but which, in reality, solve absolutely nothing. To combat juvenile delinquency, we have to deal with what we have. First of all, we have our legacy of principles that form the basis of the 1945 Ordinance: the primacy of education over repression, the specialization of juvenile courts and the mitigation of their criminal responsibility; To this is added the best interests of the child, a principle protected by the New York Convention. We are then convinced that the demand for a prompt and certain criminal response must be reconciled with the educational response. I think it would be wrong to think that the sanction is contrary to education: these two concepts are complementary. To do this, we must have a more readable procedure, which is no longer possible under the famous 1945 Order. This text, drawn up after the Second World War by the government of General de Gaulle, is a symbol of progress in the history of French justice. However, and I think we all agree on this, this order, reformed some 40 times, has lost its legibility and some of its consistency. Many works, at the initiative of successive governments, both on the left and on the right, have fed into the reflection to build a reform, without going to the end of this undertaking. National representation has also contributed significantly to this reflection. Allow me to commend the work of our colleagues Cécile Untermaier and Jean Terlier, as well as Senator Amiel's report on the reintegration of imprisoned minors. Nicole Belloubet had the courage to propose in 2019 the consecration of a code of juvenile criminal justice. It conducted a very broad consultation and set up a contact group by inviting parliamentarians from the various political groups to assist in this construction work. This draft code is therefore an outcome, which has been enriched during the debates in the committee of laws, and it is important to stress this. Its objectives are to give more meaning to the judicial criminal response, to make the procedure more readable, to place the educative in its heart and to better take into account the victims. It is a draft code of juvenile criminal justice that gives meaning, therefore. As the child psychiatrist Jean Chambry recalled, a criminal response must intervene quickly, in the temporality of the psychological life of the adolescent, anchored in the present moment. No one can satisfy himself with the current average time limit of 18 months. The new procedure therefore reconciles the time of the criminal response and the educational time, which respond, it is true, to different temporalities. The procedure in principle is the educational test, in several stages. A first hearing shall be held to determine the innocence or guilt of the minor; It also makes it possible to decide on the claims of victims. Then comes a period of educational follow-up, from six to nine months, which allows to evaluate the young person and to involve him in an educational path. It is easier to carry out an educational follow-up once guilt is recognized by the court because in practice, prior to that decision, it may be difficult to reconcile the rights of the defence, including the presumption of innocence, which makes it possible to challenge the facts, and educational work which generally involves the recognition of the facts. Lastly, a final hearing was held on the punishment, which would be specifically adapted to minors and would also ensure the sustainability of educational measures. The desire to restore meaning then leads to a restriction on the use of pre-trial detention. Eighty-four per cent of incarcerated minors are temporarily incarcerated, even though they have not been convicted. In many cases, they will have already served their sentences before being tried. This situation goes backwards in the interests of the minor and society, as the penalty loses its meaning. This is why pre-trial detention will be better supervised. The draft Code also provides for a more legible and coherent procedure. One of its innovations is the insertion of a simple presumption of non-discernment before 13 years: this will clarify the debate. This is a balanced solution, allowing us both to comply with our international commitments and to avoid the cut-off effects. In practice, the question of the minor's discernment is rarely addressed. If this project is adopted, the minor under the age of 13 will be presumed not to be discernible unless the prosecutor proves otherwise, and vice versa after 13 years. This draft code places education at the heart of the procedure. It provides for a single judicial educational measure which the judge may impose and adapt, alone or in addition to a sentence. For this purpose, he will have a range of modules which he can attach according to the specificities of the minor and the facts: a repair module, a work of general interest or a health module for example. To ensure educational follow-up, the project also aims to give parents or other legal guardians their full place in the process. This project also gives a real place to the victims, and it is important. The journey of the victims, some of whom are minors, should not be forgotten, is often described, and rightly so, as a journey of the combatant. They must therefore be allowed to obtain a decision on guilt and civil interests within a reasonable period of time, between ten days and three months. Finally, this draft Code of Juvenile Criminal Justice sets out, and this is important, the first milestones, in any case I hope, of a future Code of Juvenile Justice. A substantive work has been done and I must say, as a practitioner, that there was an urgent need to reform this 1945 order. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and a few benches of the Dem group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] I will end with the words of Robert Badinter, your illustrious predecessor, Minister, who fully explains the philosophy of juvenile criminal justice and who, in my view, must echo today: "A minor is a becoming being. [...] It is essential to maintain the philosophy of the 1945 ordinance, first and always educate, train, prevent. The primary objective of juvenile justice is to integrate them or reintegrate them into society. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u243	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u244	Adopting a single article ratifying the Ordinance on the legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, dated September 11, 2019: this is the exercise proposed to us today. Voting a single article should be a simple matter, except that behind is a code of 267 articles governing the criminal justice of minors. This evolution of the 1945 order, long awaited, desired, called, should have aroused enthusiasm if it had not fallen on us unexpectedly, without announcement, without consultation, in the middle of the examination of the law of programming for justice, while the debates were already numerous, lively and passionate. She should have received an enthusiastic welcome that the chosen form totally obeyed. Is an order coming out of nowhere, where everyone would have had reason to speak, where all governments have failed, the best way to proceed? With the aim of codifying, honesty requires that we recognize that yes, but if we had really wanted to reform, it would certainly have been better to start a more in-depth reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u245	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u246	The text before us today has the merit of codifying, thus simplifying for all the reading of what is the criminal justice of minors: for professionals, for all the actors, but also for all the French. The objective is commendable, but let us be completely honest: it lacks ambition, lacks vision, adapts to what our society is in 2020. The 1945 Ordinance was not the first to take into account juvenile delinquency and the specificity of its treatment. It all began here, on 22 July 1912, with the adoption of a law creating for the first time in France specific courts: the courts for children and adolescents. Already distinguishing minors of 13 years of age, who are criminally irresponsible but justiciable from civil courts in chambers of council, and minors of 13 years of age and over, who are criminally responsible and liable to face sentences reduced by half compared to adults, this text creates the first educational measure and supervised freedom. Although its scope will remain limited with the maintenance of correctional and correctional colonies, let us be humble and admit that today's text is not an absolute upheaval in this area, with its spine having great similarities. In 1935, the approach evolved somewhat with three decree-laws amending the law applicable to juvenile offenders, victims and at risk. It was said that it replaced confinement, which depended on the will of the father, with educational placement, the duration of which depended on the will of the judge, which also provided that when health, safety, morality or education were seriously compromised or insufficiently safeguarded by the father and mother, a measure of supervision or educational assistance could be taken by the president of the court. The order of 2 February 1985 will replace a law of 1942 establishing the juvenile judge and the special regime applicable to minors, with the aim of taking into account and protecting minors who have been handed over to themselves. Today, by codifying the 1945 order, we stand in this continuity: to protect, to deal specifically, with specialized judges, are principles that remain in this text. It is true that the intention was not to reform juvenile justice but to respond to juvenile delinquency in a more appropriate and timely manner. It must be noted that juvenile justice suffers from many criticisms: too slow, inadequate, sometimes totally engorged. Our fellow citizens no longer understand it, even less minors, who too often do not fear it or respect it. The duality it faces, between the desire to educate and the need to suppress criminal acts, together with the lack of resources and the resurgence of crimes and delicts, have meant that this justice has become over time totally inaudible, suffering from a total lack of credibility, both for the defenders of the all-educative and for those of the all-repressive. A society that has more repeaters than repeaters has failed justice, and this failure, we can only see it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u247	And regret it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u248	Lack of resources, lack of tools are the causes of this incomprehension. This code and what it brings, namely clarification and speeding up the procedure for faster and therefore more effective decisions, should make it possible to put an end to this negative ratio between repetition and recidivism, provided, of course, that the courts are empowered to manage the extra activity of the transitional period, in order to both absorb the stock and comply with the new deadlines. We are counting on you, Minister, to ensure that this text can prove its effectiveness as quickly as possible by giving juvenile justice the means to operate effectively. With regard to the need for a more appropriate justice, another will displayed, we remain more sceptical: adapted to the volume and the need to provide quick answers, yes, no doubt, but providing an appropriate response to the facts committed and to their particular violence, alas increasingly present, and to the need for civil and social peace of our fellow citizens, no doubt less. Our society has evolved since this first law of 1912; Everyone's roles have changed, for better or worse. The fact is that being a minor in 2020 is not a minor in 1912. The smartest, but also the most neglected, or self-delivered, have understood it well and take advantage of it to engage in increasingly harmful activities every day, both to society and to themselves. We could probably have gone further in this area, even if the codification resulting from this text will make it easier for the future to adapt this juvenile justice to our society. We should, in view of what our society is, ask ourselves the question of criminal irresponsibility before the age of 13 in a different way, since the child under the age of 13 has absolutely no equal access to information, to the world, nor the same freedom, the same reflection as that of 1912, already irresponsible criminally and yet so different. But we will also have to ask ourselves what the emancipation of the 16-year-old might be, which some of us would like to see become actors in the democratic debate, because at this age, we either have all the codes of our society, allowing us to participate actively in the democratic debate, or we do not yet understand all the codes, thus justifying a form of mitigation of responsibility for crimes and offences committed against society. This is not so simple, and it is because there are as many different personalities as juvenile delinquents that the justice is done by judges, women and men responsible for assessing in a proportionate manner, depending on the circumstances of time, fact and place, but also depending on the person, his course and what he is, what the sanction will be. Greater confidence in our judges, in their ability to provide an appropriate response to the cases before them, would no doubt have allowed you to lift the presumption of irresponsibility for 13-year-olds and the excuse of a minority for minors over 16 years of age. We miss that confidence. We could have been a little more ambitious, but our amendments, if you adopt them, will allow us to be more ambitious. Nevertheless, this reform is necessary, at least as a first step towards what juvenile justice should be. Simplification of the procedure, with a single method of prosecution; Acceleration of the judgement period at the end of the investigation, within ten days to three months after the summons; Finally, the imposition of the penalty within six to nine months is a real step forward. The strengthening of the care of minors through the introduction of appropriate and effective probationary measures before sentencing will, we hope, help to stem the criminal spiral of some and prevent the recurrence of criminal acts never punished, or too late. It was of course important to improve the consideration of victims, and educational measures and sanctions could not be imposed without considering what the victim had to suffer. Compensation and reparation for harm must be swift, to reconcile our fellow citizens with juvenile justice. Placing the victim with the minor at the heart of the proceedings is important: these measures were necessary. As you will understand, the Republicans Group will vote in favour of the ratification of the ordinance forming a legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u249	Once our amendments have been adopted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u250	Not that the text brings our total support, or over-enthusiasm, but because it is a good beginning, a necessary basis for the adaptation of juvenile justice in our time. I am talking about "minor justice", not just "minor criminal justice". Indeed, we must establish in one and the same work all its components – social, educational but also repressive, when necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u251	Great ambition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u252	Ambiguities related to the children's judge's double hat need to be clarified. The services of the ESA and the PJJ, often confronted with the same minors but in a different legal framework, must be able to interact in a much simpler way, for better treatment of what is primarily human distress, since these children are too often left to themselves. We will not have finished the work at the end of the discussion of this text. We will have laid a first stone, but the road is long, we must be aware of it. In addition, we are looking at the only legislative aspect of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code: the regulatory aspect, where the fate of these provisions will be dealt with, remains. We will follow its development with particular vigilance and hope that it will respect the spirit that led to our discussions. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] In any case, we will vote on this text, which is a good start for the development that must lead us to a juvenile justice system that is more appropriate in our time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u253	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1114.u254	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the bill ratifying the Ordinance of 11 September 2019 on the legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code. The meeting is adjourned.
