ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u1	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution by Mr Jean-Carles Grelier to ensure the permanence of care after the crisis (No 3086).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u2	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u3	While the Republic's health policy is based on the desire to ensure that every woman and every man everywhere in the country has the best conditions for care, it must be noted that our health care system is out of sight, that it is only held by the extreme dedication of health professionals who, everywhere, continue to commit themselves to providing all French people with access to quality health care. If the health system has deteriorated, it has long been valued only from a purely budgetary and accounting perspective. The deficit reduction objective now seems illusory, as crises regularly push back the deadline, as uncertainties weigh on the global scale. In some respects, the finding is chilling: prevention policies lack governance, coordination between different actors and regular evaluation. France is now ranked twenty-third out of the twenty-seven European Union countries for healthy life expectancy in the over-65s. Preventive medicine is left in disinherence: the worst statistic shows in some regions a school doctor for 47,000 pupils. The resulting chronic disease expenditure now accounts for 65% of the annual health insurance expenditure. The state of psychiatry is no less worrying: 12.5 million French people have a psychiatric or mental condition, and this figure is growing exponentially following the crisis of the covid-19. The cost of health insurance is estimated at €103 billion each year. Health facilities, whether private or public, are expansive. The insoluble financial equation now reaches all players in the drug industry. An official pharmacy closes every two days, pharmaceutical dispatchers sometimes deliver at a loss and many industrialists have interrupted their investments like their research work in France. And the list could be extended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u4	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u5	The health crisis that we have just experienced has been a tremendous revelation of the strengths and weaknesses of our beautiful health building, its resilience and its inertia, which I have denounced in this forum for three years now. It would be unfair to say that nothing has been done. But our health system lacks a real ambition, a new breath, a clear and defined course. And I fear that the Segur of Health will only provide a partial answer to these questions. For health, looking at it well, is the only public policy that concerns every Frenchman, from neonatality to the end of life. It also defines a project of society, depending on whether it is exercised in solidarity or whether it refers to the contributing faculties of each. Health is first and foremost a political subject, in the noblest sense of the term. Health can be a new ambition for France for tomorrow. An ambition that transcends divisions, transcends postures and becomes our common goal. An ambition that restores France's health status, not just in terms of health care. An ambition that allows us to draw the contours of a health system that is more efficient, more flexible, closer to the territories and thus closer to the French and French. An ambition that goes beyond the horizon of fiscal annuality and is part of a five-year programming law, setting a course, direction and vision. Our health care system is too compartmentalized, enkysted in administrative burdens, both in Paris and in the province. There is an urgent need to pave the way for dialogue between health actors, state administration and local elected officials. Broadly opening up opportunities, providing more flexibility and flexibility, is restoring the place and strength of individual and collective initiatives. An ambition to build a sustainable and sustainable health system that adapts to the hazards of time without betraying the founding principles of 1945. In order for this ambition to be realized, it is necessary to break down into six areas. First, the relationship between the deconcentrated services of the Ministry of Health and the elected representatives of the territories must be broken down. The crisis of the covid-19 has revealed a health administration sometimes locked in its procedures, preventing local initiatives which are often marked by common sense. Health governance must integrate the voice of elected officials, if any, as an intermediate body, in order to facilitate the adaptation of our health system to the constraints, demands and realities of the territories. Secondly, there is a need to break up the health professions between them. Too often, health professionals are confined to a trade or specialty from which it is extremely difficult to leave or evolve, regardless of the level of education and diploma. How to accept that a caregiver has no prospect of career development towards the nursing profession,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u6	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u7	... that a nurse cannot enter other professions than those of administrative management, and that the specialties acquired during the career are never taken into consideration? How can we accept that a doctor with a degree in one specialty cannot acquire another without taking over the entire four years of the boarding school? Unlocking the trades will make them attractive, scalable, and enrich the entire health system with new experiences and perspectives. This will provide caregivers with opportunities and a new career horizon. Thirdly, prevention policies must be broken down, effective and inter-ministerial governance must be organised to coordinate and ensure coherence between all actions and initiatives taken at both the national and local levels. Fourthly, the world of psychiatry and mental health must be opened up. Mental illness directly affects one in five Frenchmen. In 2015, the World Health Organization estimated that mental disorders would be the leading cause of loss of quality of life by 2020. Here we go. Deploying psychiatry is a requirement for the nation. There is a need to rethink its territorial organization, its coordination with other stakeholders in the health system and its funding. Fifth, the world of health research and innovation needs to be opened up, to make it more readable and to make its evaluation, monitoring and effectiveness possible. Sixthly, funding for the health system should be cut off. While there is no obvious question of questioning the principles of solidarity laid down by the founders of social security in 1945, it must be noted that, in the face of an ageing population, funding needs will continue to grow in the years to come, even though the current resources of the health system are now capped. The levers of social contributions, taxes or debt are no longer able to finance its development and sustainability. In fact, all the promises made today to caregivers are financed by a debt supplement, so they are neither lasting nor virtuous. The motion for a resolution to ensure the continuity of care after the health crisis is not a health policy on its own. It is a message to the entire medical community, a message of gratitude, a message to show our understanding of the difficulties she is experiencing, in the hospital but not only. The purpose of this moratorium is therefore to provide guarantees to caregivers so that consultation within the framework of the Sécur de la santé can take place in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u8	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u9	But the measure he proposes is not intended to be permanent. It makes sense only if a deep reflection is started, that a new ambition is proposed. This decompartmentalisation, this open dialogue for which I plead, is one of the conditions for achieving this ambition. While closures can be justified in some institutions, it is imperative that every time alternative measures are considered, discussed and adapted to the realities of the territories, so that at all times and anywhere, the population enjoys the same quality and the same provision of care. Everyone, with the crisis of covid-19, has opened their eyes to the difficulties of our health system. Let's take note, all together. It is our collective responsibility, in our capacity as representatives of the nation, to address this issue of interest to each and every one of our compatriots in order to offer them the guarantee that they will have access to quality health at all times and in all places. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as on the benches of the GDR, FI, SOC and EDS groups]] Through this motion for a resolution, the Group of the Republicans invites you to take a first step, to offer a new ambition for France, for each and every Frenchman: the ambition of our common health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u10	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u11	We are starting this day of parliamentary initiative of the Republicans Group, dedicated exclusively to social affairs, with a motion for a resolution aimed at ensuring the permanence of care after the crisis. The author has made a long and comprehensive plea for reform of the health system, but precisely this motion for a resolution calls on the Government to consider an immediate freeze on any closure of beds or services in public health facilities. The MODEM Group is reserved for this initiative, both in form and substance. The crisis that we have just been through has proved that we must be agile; Or you propose a gel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u12	For 12 months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u13	It has shown us the need for a differentiated response: the answer in the East is not the same as the answer in the South-West. But you are presenting a uniform proposal. To continue the comparison that could be made with the war, you propose a war of trenches, when it is necessary the agility of a guerrilla. First, the notion of "continuity of care" does not seem appropriate to the demand. Your answer is centered on the hospital, which surprises me:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u14	Health is a national policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u15	... the answer must be global and also concern, of course, the city medicine which is forgotten of your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u16	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u17	Care does not necessarily require hospitalization. That was the subject of the bill to create reception points for immediate care that I had the honour of presenting to you in November and which was adopted here unanimously, which I thank you for. As you said, the health crisis has been the indicator and catalyst of the suffering of the French hospital system. Of course, the issue of beds, especially resuscitation beds, has been at the heart of the debate, but not only: there are problems of staff, recruitment, remuneration and overall organisation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u18	You will explain it to the French during the Ségur de la santé.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u19	This is, moreover, the whole purpose of the Ségur de la santé initiated by the Minister of Solidarity and Health, which, in a spirit of consultation and listening to caregivers, should lead to a restructuring from the top of careers and an organizational restructuring of the public hospital. On the other hand, the question of beds now arises because the public hospital suffered from unconsidered budgetary restrictions during the previous quinquennium. These budget cuts would have continued if the Republican candidate had been elected three years ago, since his programme provided for drastic cuts in hospital funding. Hence the surprise caused by your proposal today. Yes, it is tempting to vote in his favour, since you present it as a message. But don't health professionals have enough messages? What they want is concrete. The concrete is what we have been doing for three years. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have made available financial resources to ensure the gradual increase of the national objective of health insurance expenditure – ONDAM – which had not been done for many years. It's concrete. Similarly, the Government made commitments regarding the thawing of reserve credits in 2019 and the resumption of one third of hospital debt – we debated it last week, on the occasion of a text that you did not vote for! The open phase with the Ségur de la santé will close in the fall with the Social Security Funding Bill – PLFSS. This cycle is crucial for the sustainability and consolidation of our health system, especially the public hospital. It will be necessary to identify all the means necessary for this ambition and to formulate proposals adapted to the problems and findings referred to in this motion for a resolution. We know your audacity and enthusiasm, Mr. Grelier, and we know that you will be able to invest in Segur and then in the PLFSS. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the MODEM Group will not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u20	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u21	This motion for a resolution invites the Government to consider the immediate freezing of any closure of bed or service in public health facilities for a period of 12 months. If this is a matter for us because of the dramatic consequences of the crisis of the Covid-19, it is neither a surprise nor a novelty. The hospital crisis precedes the pandemic. The public hospital and its staff, both caregivers and non-carers, were heroic. Everyone agrees that they have ensured, at the risk of their health and under exceptionally delicate conditions, sometimes without the appropriate equipment but without ever hesitation, the continuity of this public service so essential to the life of the nation and that of the French. At the heart of the crisis, the emergency was in command. At the peak of the epidemic, health workers were under stress, concerned or even anxious about the number of resuscitation beds and the increasing influx of patients to be treated. Only the effort of all – hospital staff, UAS, military – has prevented the disaster. But at what cost? It took the transfer of patients from the most affected regions to those less affected and the dedication of the health reserve and health personnel to ensure that resuscitation services were not saturated. However, in the face of the urgency and unpredictability of this virus, a sad question arose: will we have enough resuscitation beds and artificial respirators or not? In other words, will all patients treated for covid -19 be able to receive the necessary care or not? Thanks to the mobilization of all and a certain flexibility, we have fortunately not been confronted with this dilemma. However, the question has indeed arisen and has fed a sense of relegation among our fellow citizens: behind the decline of its public services, it is indeed the decline of France that has been felt. The public hospital has been the poor parent of public policy for decades. From chronic under-investment to pricing to activity, the reasons are many and varied. If bankruptcy is collective, our responsibility is collective. It has been several years since the health workers have been calling on us and the protest movements have increased in recent months, even before the health crisis has occurred, but their cry of pain has not been heard. Worse, he's been suffocated. The health crisis has only worsened the open wounds of the public hospital: they are now blissful. On 25 May, the Government initiated the discussion. We welcome this, but we cannot welcome the need for a major crisis to listen to the legitimate demands of health workers. On 22 October last, in preparation for the Social Security Financing Bill for 2020, the Socialist and Related Group presented a comprehensive plan for hospital and autonomy. The Government and its majority have never taken advantage of the review of the PLFSS to listen to our proposals for discussion. After the public school in the 19th century, the white coats having succeeded the black hussards, the public hospital was the great republican and social conquest of the 20th century. It is our responsibility to rebuild the 21st century public hospital. This is why the Socialist and Related Group has again put forward proposals for the public hospital as part of its post-crisis rebound plan. We owe it to the French, in order to guarantee them quality access to health and care, but also to all the health workers who work every day to make this requirement a reality, sometimes at the risk of their lives, as the daily reminds us sadly. Therefore, this motion for a resolution is in the right direction as it aims to freeze bed and service closures for one year. Although we are suspended from the Minister's announcements following the Ségur de la santé, that is the minimum that we owe to health workers and the French, even if we hope that the Government will hear this time the proposals that come from both the healthcare staff and the opposition. This motion for a resolution has two essential objectives. The first is to appease the explosive social climate. Last week, caregivers still felt unheard of and did not fail to let us know, just a few steps from the Chamber. Trust must come back. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group, as well as on the GDR and EDS benches]] The second objective is to avoid further controversy, such as the one that occurred at the heart of the crisis when the director of a regional health agency, filled with an obsessive accounting system, stated that there was no reason to suspend the bed closures. On the contrary, we must more than ever ensure that all territories have sufficient beds to meet the needs of the French and any emergency situation. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u22	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u23	This motion for a resolution invites us to discuss an essential subject: the means and strategy of our country in the field of health. The epidemic of covid-19 demonstrated, if necessary, the extraordinary value and dedication of caregivers and their ability to adapt. However, this health crisis has also revealed the limitations of the organization of our health system, which is now breathless. The IDU and independent group regretted, during the review of the last PLFSS, that too much effort was required in the hospital. We pay the price of this policy of short-sighted savings, aggravated under the socialist quinquennium. She disorganized the teams and increased the ill-being of caregivers. It is one of the causes of hospital debt and has permanently degraded our capacity for health innovation. It is true that real progress has been made under this quinquennium: the introduction of a multi-year funding plan for community hospitals in particular, the beginning of an exit from pricing to activity – even if the road is still long – or the resumption of part of the hospital's debt, although we consider that the burden is on the State and not on social security. The reality is that a comprehensive strategy is needed to finally adapt our health care system to the new challenges of the 21st century. The ills of the public hospital will not be rectified without having in mind the deficiencies of the city medicine and the medical deserts. The situation is too serious to rule out the selective contractual measures necessary to rebalance the provision of care between territories. In particular, they will help to reduce the number of emergencies and improve patient care and follow-up. This requires an ambitious policy of land-use planning, because that is what makes society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u25	To remind doctors to settle where the needs are greatest is also to remedy the geographical and social divides in France. More generally, the IDU-I Group is convinced that there is a need to deepen the territorialization of health policies. The fight against the covid-19 epidemic illustrated the effectiveness of community health policies. In many places, local and regional authorities have become more aware of the realities on the ground. Used to a fruitful dialogue with the Prefect, they have sometimes replaced regional health agencies – ARS. Moreover, we need to address the issue of RSA reform. However, let us not make hasty decisions about them. They do play an essential role in the territorial organisation of care, which they most often assume with competence and expertise. We propose a reform of health governance in the territories, with the regional prefect being the focal point for health policy. The local authorities and all local actors must of course be closely involved. In the same spirit, the UDI-I Group advocates the establishment of regional objectives in place of ONDAM. This is a sine qua non to prevent further geographical inequalities in health. Clearly, it is essential to thoroughly reorganize our health care system. The motion for a resolution defended by the LR Group calls for a moratorium on the closure of beds and services for one year in public hospitals. We agree with this idea: it is imperative to hear the distress and the need for recognition of caregivers. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I, LR, EDS and SOC, GDR and FI groups]] Consequently, the independent IDU Group will support this motion for a resolution, which will send a signal of support to the public hospital as part of the ongoing consultations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u26	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u27	For more than thirty years, the closure of beds has almost become a rule in French hospitals. Between 1993 and 2018, close to 100,000 beds were closed. Unfortunately, this decline has not slowed in recent years. According to the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics of the Ministry of Health – DREES – 1,7,500 beds have been closed in six years. Behind these figures, there is a hard reality. Behind these strict accounting considerations, which have become the only valid reading grid for managing public hospitals, is the risk of offering a lower quality public service and, above all, the assurance of further complicating the working conditions of healthcare professionals. Closeting beds is in fact entrusting staff with the hard task of looking for ways to hospitalize patients, even if they spend hours there, or even get sick people out earlier to accommodate others. We cannot accept any longer that hospital staff are engaged in a bed hunt. This only adds to the discomfort of an already well-tested and less and less attractive profession. What is the meaning of medicine when the primary activity of practitioners is to make room? Welcoming sick people to hospital has become a permanent puzzle that sometimes requires doctors to send their patients, especially in surgery, to other services, to the detriment of their follow-up and the quality of care. In June 2018, the SAMU-Urgences trade union in France estimated that in the first half of the year, almost 100,000 people had spent the night on a stretcher because of a lack of beds. These images, we've seen them too much, we can't stand them anymore. Bed closures are also a first step towards service closures. The latter shut down because there are no more personnel to operate it. However, hospital occupations have lost their attractiveness due to difficult conditions and the lack of pay revalorisation. The services are also closing because the regional health agencies have set up the consolidation of hospital trays as a watchword, without taking into account the health needs and specificities of the territories. For example, in 20 years, half of maternity hospitals have closed their doors in metropolitan France. Ladies and gentlemen, each of us here bears responsibility for this situation, which is the result of a slow deterioration. Therefore, we must show humility in this matter. In recent years, all governments have reduced the resources allocated to hospitals and have encouraged them to achieve significant savings. Since the 2000s, we have witnessed an intensification of economic reasoning methods, which lead to the management of public hospitals as well as companies and to their alignment with the management standards of the lucrative sector. In the midst of an epidemic of covid-19, the policy of closing beds and services has weighed heavily on our management capabilities. The health system has held, but at the cost of considerable tension. In order to cope with the wave of patients, France has increased its resuscitation capacity to almost 14000 beds, compared with about 5000 usually, to the detriment of other patients whose actions have been deprogrammed. Without the transfer of patients to the territories and to Europe, we would have been overtaken. We must put an end to the policies of "rationalization of the provision of care", which means that we must finally give sufficient resources to public hospitals, and give more weight to caregivers, so that hospital governance is more representative of the needs of populations and territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and EDS groups]] A moratorium on the closure of beds and services is the strict minimum! The Libertés et Territoires Group will therefore vote for this motion for a resolution, but it expects a lot of decisions and investments coming out of the Segur de la santé.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u28	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u29	Given the urgency of the care situation in France, we welcome this motion for a resolution which calls for the closure of hospital beds and services for 12 months. Nevertheless, it looks like a bad hoax, which leaves us with a bitter taste in our mouth. Let me put it in its historical context and remind you of the responsibility of the various governments to reduce the number of hospital beds. A recent article in the newspaper Le Monde reveals that 100,000 beds closed between 1993 and 2018. According to the DREES report published in 2019, the total number of beds in psychiatry decreased by 3500 between 2003 and 2017: the decrease was 6000 beds in public institutions, while at the same time the capacity of private for-profit institutions increased by 3000 beds, to account for a quarter of the total capacity in 2017. With the Act of 26 January 2016 to modernize our health care system, known as the Touraine Act, public institutions were forced to regroup, resulting in the closure of beds, services and health facilities. Even further in the abject, Éric Woerth, then Minister of Budget and now Member of Parliament on your benches, dear colleagues of the group Les Républicains, said at Jean-Jacques Bourdin in 2007: "There are too many hospital beds in France".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u30	It was in 2007!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u31	Under the pretext of saving the French, these policies benefit the private sector and degrade our access to care. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] There's money, though. In 20 years, the fortune of French billionaires has increased by 300%. I'm just reminding the story! Over the same period, 40 per cent of maternity wards closed. In ten years, hospitals have had to save around 10 billion euros. In the same decade, according to Oxfam's latest report, Sanofi paid about 50 billion to its shareholders. The growth of dividends has been six times faster than that of salaries in the hospital public service. Since the beginning of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, dividend payments have increased by 36%, despite an almost zero increase in profits. At the same time, €3 billion in savings have been made to the detriment of hospitals. In 2017, a report by ATTAC – Association for the Taxation of Financial Transactions and Citizen Action – revealed that €140 billion of social debt was repaid, mainly through taxes. Of these 140 billion, 52 billion interest was paid to creditors... Today, shareholders continue to speculate on the social debt and debts of exsangu hospitals. These are the consequences of the reign of king money in contempt of the human. For decades and so far, all governments have been responsible for the situation in the hospital. Each one went there from his "austerity" law, each one demanded from the public hospital that he save, on average, 1 billion euros more each year. Since the beginning of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium, 3.5 billion euros have been withdrawn from hospitals, which are already under pressure. [["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] Let us therefore return to the motion for a resolution that we are considering today: it proposes a moratorium on the closure of hospital beds and services for 12 months. The Group of the European People's Party will vote for it, but it is not enough. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group, smiles on the benches of the LaREM group]] In addition, we remember bitterly François Fillon, then presidential candidate, declaring to Bry-sur-Marne's caregivers their difficult working conditions: "Do you want me to make extra debt? »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u32	It was another time, Mrs. Fiat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u33	I see things have changed and I'm delighted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u34	It's not easy to exercise power!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u35	You'll see when you're in power, Mrs. Fiat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u36	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and EDS groups, as well as on several benches of the LR group]] In Tours, Nancy, Metz, Caen, Cherbourg, Marseille and Draguignan, restructuring plans have been suspended, but have still not been cancelled, despite the numerous announcements by President Emmanuel Macron himself and the Government: abolitions of posts and closures of services and beds therefore remain on the agenda. Public services, financed by tax, are not for-profit companies! We are therefore delighted to vote on this motion for a resolution and to count the Republicans in the struggle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u37	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u38	The period of exit from the health crisis invites us to look very concretely and quickly at the serious dysfunctions in our health system. These are many, and the upheaval we have just experienced has only made it even more difficult to stress the lack of resources, as well as the mental and physical overload experienced by caregivers. To those who have unfortunately died and to their families, we owe a great deal of humility. At the end of several months of an unprecedented health crisis, some observations need to be made. The first is simple: the health system in general, and hospitals in particular, have been in crisis for too long. The problem of capacity exacerbates tensions in particular. For several years, budget cuts have led to the abolition of hospital beds, against which caregivers are mobilizing even more strongly today. Yet these issues are not new. The successive strikes of the staff in recent years bear witness to the disarray and deep anger that inhabit them. It is our duty as a parliamentarian to listen to them, at a time when the Segur of Health raises both hopes and fears. We cannot miss this moment. The Ségur de la santé promises to revitalize the hospital sector. All commitments will have to be met in order to best meet the expectations of caregivers. Addressing an end to the crisis is never easy, so we must allow hospitals to ensure continuity of care in the best possible way, in order to anticipate and deal with a new crisis. In this difficult context, the problem of beds crystallizes all tensions. How can we continue the process of bed removal as the country barely recovers from the tragedy we have just experienced? How can we respect caregivers by continuing to reduce the resources allocated to them? It would be counterproductive and foolish to continue in this direction. Therefore, the motion for a resolution to freeze the removal of beds for 12 months appears to be consistent. It would avoid further disarmament of hospitals and could contribute to alleviating the climate of tension in the French health system. However, a capacitar freeze is not the only solution for hospital backup. There is an urgent need to strengthen and deploy additional financial resources, otherwise the problem would remain unchanged. The equipment is of course indispensable, but the human means are equally so. The preservation of beds requires an overall reinforcement of the means: without this effort, the measure will have no beneficial effect on the working conditions of the caregivers and the reception of the sick. It will be necessary to finance the reorganization of services related to the maintenance of beds. In other words, give caregivers every means to start a new era for the public hospital! On the other hand, this potential freeze must also benefit too often forgotten hospital sectors, such as psychiatry. I thank the rapporteur for referring to it, because it is too often regarded as a sub-discipline. To benefit the psychiatry of this measure would be an opportunity to finally give importance to a sector that has been almost ignored for many years. This stabilization would allow mental health institutions to begin a much-needed reorganization phase, which I outlined with Caroline Fiat in a parliamentary report last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u39	[[Smile]] Magnificent report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u40	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is important to stress that the text we are debating is an urgent proposal, which will not solve the deep crisis in public health institutions in the long term. However, since it has the merit of providing a first response, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u41	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u42	Between 1993 and 2018, close to 100,000 hospital beds were closed, of which 83000 were in medicine, surgery and obstetrics, i.e., for this category alone, a decrease of 29% in 25 years, according to the calculations of health geographer Emmanuel Vigneron. The current situation is, therefore, the result of decisions taken by successive governments, which are accountable for them. In most cases, these beds have been closed for outpatient care; At the same time, the number of places in partial hospitalization has increased. "Since 2013, 17,500 full hospital beds have been closed, a 4.2% decrease over five years," says DREES. This development is the result of a desire, of course, to remove excess beds, but above all to reorganise supply, in particular through innovations in medical and drug technologies. In addition, there has been an increase in hospitalisation at home over the past few years, the capacity of which has steadily increased. Some argue that the closure of beds in health facilities is responsible for the malaise that prevails there. This is probably the case, at least in part, it must not be denied. We must not forget, however, that our health care system, and especially our hospital, is not limited to a stock of beds. It is much more, and much better than that: skills, trained personnel, high-performance equipment, advanced medicines. The number of beds is a parameter, it is far from being the alpha and omega of the hospital quality. Well? We've been so wrong, Mr. Grelier! It would not be a mistake once again, by reacting under the influence of emotion and obeying an exclusively digital logic. Let us leave room for broad consultation, for discussions based on concrete examples, for the sharing of experience of staff who, in the field, live in the hospital as a group of men and women working for the general interest. If we can all see that the hospital is in a serious crisis, and even in a systemic crisis, then everyone will agree that the crisis we are experiencing cannot be solved by an exclusively accounting response. Every year, the Social Security Financing Bill that we have to vote sets a national target for health insurance expenditures. This mathematical logic has led us to the crisis. However, if we agreed to block the closures of hospital beds, we would respond according to the same mathematical logic, therefore partial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u43	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u44	If the crisis has shown something, it is the need to be agile. Your motion for a resolution, by freezing the closures, requires that we remain static. If the crisis has shown something, it is good that we must formulate a territorial response, not a response from above. Your motion for a resolution, looking only at the hospital, worse than hospital beds, ignores the link between city medicine and hospital,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u45	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u46	...which turned out to be so important in the crisis. The title of the text is interesting: "Continuing care after the crisis". He invites us to accompany you, but only in principle, because the content of the bill, limited to the stock of hospital beds, is not up to the stakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u47	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u48	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We, the members of the Action Group, will therefore not support the text. Let us trust the Ségur de la santé, who works with many health professionals, to find multiple solutions, allowing to respond to a multiple crisis itself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u49	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u50	The GDR Group has been alerting MEPs for years on the reduction of health expenditure, on the lateral security position of the public hospital. Since the beginning of the legislature, health workers have made every effort to make themselves heard, and to defend a common tool that is nothing less than indispensable to the right to health. At each stage of our tour de France des hôpitaux, we were alerted about service closures, staff cuts, restructurings, blackmails carried out within the framework of the interministerial committee on the performance and modernization of the supply of hospital care – COPERMO – and contracts to return to financial balance. We have also found that many services, however necessary, have not been opened, in the name of hospital gigantism whose only function is to attempt to mask the generalized weakening of the system. We must stop dispersing the public hospital in our territories, in the name of bogus technocratic theories based on a single foundation, always the same: the accounting management of our health, the austerity of the public service. Years and years of liberal politics have led us to a situation of endangering the health of others! How long have we been asking for the renunciation of this infernal logic? How long have we been asking for the abandonment of so-called "reorganization" plans? How long have we been asking for a moratorium to give air to the choking hospital? Of all this, the Government took no account, considering that the restructuring of the public hospital was the answer to the problems. This ravaging stubbornness must stop. Will we not have learned any lessons from the coronavirus crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u51	We're wondering!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u52	She's calling for an urgent stop to the wreck. She calls for strong actions towards the hospital world, whose members were still on the street on June 16. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] They do not demand tributes, medals, or even vouchers, as the majority proposed a few weeks ago. They simply claim that the next day should not be in the slope of the day before. They simply ask for the means to do their job. We had a hospital deprived before the crisis, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, would like to continue to defuse it after, when tragically demonstrated the untenable nature of this policy? Everyone remembers the shocking remarks – which you recalled in your explanatory statement, dear Jean-Charles Grelier – made by the director of the ARS of the Greater East Region, in the midst of an epidemic and at its epicentre, according to which there was no reason to suspend the planned restructuring. These words sounded like an unbearable provocation. They are symptomatic of the predominance of short-sighted management, so far removed from care and humans. But wouldn't their author have just said out loud what it was necessary to think down? This dehumanized financial management must therefore be halted, accompanied by contracting tools at the hands of the ARS and the State as well as local hospital groups. Bed hunting has become a profession in its own right in the hospital, carried out by "bed managers", which contributes to the loss of sense and discomfort felt by caregivers. Here is the hospital break in figures: 126 health facilities closed between 2013 and 2017; two thirds of maternity mothers have disappeared in forty years; From 1995 to 2016, 60 emergency services were abolished in the public sector; 100,000 hospital beds have been abolished over the past 30 years. At the same time, health needs have increased, while city medicine has been weakened – as evidenced by medical deserts. In the face of the epidemic, because of the lack of sufficient capacity, drastic containment measures had to be taken. The Government has even called on our fellow citizens to refrain from attending hospital services. We're always caught up in the real world! The investment plan for the hospital, announced at the height of the crisis and debated within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, seems already disappointing, leaving aside several key issues. The scenario seems to be endlessly repeated: how many miraculous plans have already been announced in trompe l'oeil? This is no longer permitted. Our assembly must state this clearly; It must make a strong gesture to set the tone, call for a moratorium on the closures of beds in the hospital, which, for our part, we ask for abandonment. There is a shortage of beds in the services, for example at the Timone Hospital, where some patients stay more than 72 hours on a stretcher, and others leave the resuscitation earlier than expected to free up the space. We'd have to reopen some beds! Therefore, a gel is the least one can do. [[Applause on the benches of groups FI, SOC and LR]] Although it is true that the Republicans have their share of responsibility in this situation, the GDR Group wishes to send a signal to hospital staff, who are planning a new day of action on 30 June, and will therefore vote for the motion for a resolution calling for the freezing of hospital restructuring for 12 months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u53	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u54	First of all, I would like to take advantage of my speaking time to greet and thank again all the health and care professionals, all the professions in the hospital. From all the members of the La République group on the move, thank you! The crisis of the Covid-19 brought to the fore the persistent tensions that were going through the hospital, which we already knew. It has exacerbated them, whether in terms of staffing, team organization, services or capacity. In this context, members of the Republican Group have put on the agenda of our Assembly a motion for a resolution calling for the immediate freezing of any closure of beds or services in public health facilities for one year. On reading the explanatory memorandum, important shortcuts appear, implying that the budgetary logic would have led to bed closures, as well as the saturation of the resuscitation capacity observed during the pandemic. However, according to the latest figures published by DREES, the number of resuscitation beds increased between 2013 and 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u55	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u56	The biased presentation of the facts on which the motion for a resolution is based therefore does not allow the debate on hospital resources and the number of beds to be properly addressed. Looking at the details of the figures, it can be seen that, for the period 2003-2018, much of the decrease in the number of beds is attributable to long-term care units – USLD. This decline is accompanied by an increase in the number of places in EHPAD – residential institutions for dependent elderly people – and in follow-up care and rehabilitation. The decrease in the number of beds in the USLD is due to the fact that this method of hospitalization has become obsolete. We would be surprised to hear you plead for a back-up, even though the outpatient shift and day hospitalisation are in line with patients' expectations. However, I would like to point out that the activity pricing – T2A – of which the political formation of the Republicans is at the origin, is very defied. More generally, the organization and governance of the public hospital has been profoundly transformed by the Law on Hospital Reform and on Patients, Health and Territories, the HPST Law, adopted in 2009. In particular, the Act strengthened the executive power of the hospital director and marked the turning point in the "new public management" and "hospital-business" inspired by the private sector. As early as 2017, the majority and the Government began a major reform of our hospital, the first major step being the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, the law "my health 2022". This is a link in this great reform which, by transforming the supply of city care and that of local hospitals, has considerable consequences for hospitals, allowing them to refocus on their missions. From the first social security budget adopted by our majority, we have increased the resources of the public hospital, thanks to a higher level of the ONDAM than we saw in the previous quinquennium. In addition, the last two social security financing laws have led to the exit of the "all T2A" through quality funding for emergency and psychiatry services and for community hospitals. We have also begun to raise hospital rates, breaking with ten years of downward tariff campaigns, which has been welcomed by the hospital world. Finally, the Government has fully thawed the resources set aside in 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u57	That's great.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u58	Recent events, caused by the pandemic, have reaffirmed an essential truth that we already knew: hospital and hospital staff are one of the pillars of our nation. That is why the Government organized the Secur de la santé after the crisis. This great consultation, carried out with all professionals, aims to continue the major reform of the hospital and the medical and social sector. It is based on four pillars: transforming and improving the situation of those who care; define a new investment and financing policy for care; radically simplify the organizations and day-to-day lives of the teams; federate health actors in the territories, at the service of the users. Freezing the closure of hospital beds for a period of 12 months does not meet the demands and needs of healthcare professionals or the expectations of patients. We trust professionals and the Sécur de la santé to make proposals as close as possible to their needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u59	Then vote on the motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u60	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This motion for a resolution is a further attempt to bypass the Government's policy dialogues and reforms. The La République group on the move will vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u61	The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u62	This is, according to the explanatory memorandum, the objective of this motion for a resolution. Good time! Indeed, that is the whole meaning of Segur of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u63	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u64	The Ségur de la santé is an unprecedented exercise designed to recognize caregivers in what they do and what they are. In what they do: they accompany, help, heal, save. For what they are: women and men of great value, whose intense commitment we have all admired in recent weeks, and whose work is indispensable to the life of the nation. Yes, an ill-being has been growing for a long time, too long, in health facilities. Yes, accounting logics have been able to replace the only thing that matters to caregivers: care. Many political families are invited by circumstances to do, if not an examination of conscience, at least show humility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u65	It would be nice to apply it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u66	I could draft the health proposals that were included in the Republican presidential programme, while your candidate intended to "turn the table" on the British model of the 1980s. I could also tell you that, since May 2017, the transformation of the health system, equality in access to care and the adaptation of our structures to new demographic issues have been priorities. You are referring to the national objective of health insurance expenditure. The previous majority knows better than anyone these accounting lines that have saved money on the back of the public hospital. Budgetary responsibility is good, but not at any price.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u67	They dare everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u68	We've increased hospital fees. We have chosen a recovery in hospital debt – more than 10 billion euros in three years – to put an end to an infernal race against debt, to the detriment of the quality of working life of teams and investment in our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u69	It's still not in place!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u70	The Government carried out a tariff campaign that was in sharp rupture with the 10-year tariff reduction cycle. It has fully thawed the appropriations put in reserve in 2018 and 2019. In December 2019, it decided to allocate EUR 415 million to health facilities. It has made unprecedented commitments on pluriannuality, to finally restore visibility to hospitals. These efforts were in the right direction, they were absolutely necessary. Were they enough? Maybe not.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u71	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u72	It's all the challenge of Health Security today to set a new framework with health care providers to respond to long-standing demands. As early as April 2019, the President of the Republic made the commitment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u73	He's never been so quoted in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u74	...unpublished for our hospitals, to no longer decide to close hospitals without the agreement of the mayors. "No matter what it costs," the President of the Republic also said, because the mortal danger we have faced and who is always looking for us is those who need to create a new model. The health crisis was a revelation and an electroshock. A crisis like the one we are going through is a test of truth. She forces us to make choices...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u75	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u76	... and to decide the values that we place at the heart of our social pact. Among them, solidarity and health have come before all others. To be rigorous and to keep a budget heading blindly when lives are at stake is not to be responsible, it is to forget that the figures considered in themselves make little sense. The health of our fellow citizens, the solidarity for everyone to be protected: these are the fundamental values that the Government has put forward in recent weeks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u77	Then vote on the proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u78	... because there are certainly decisions that cost, but there are also issues that have no price.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u79	You've been more responsive to Renault and Air France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u80	Today, a strong signal must be sent to restore trust between the public hospital and the state. He'll be sent. The gravity of the circumstances does not allow us any taboo. We will have to allow those who care to live better from their work. The upgrading of wages and careers is not a peripheral issue. Yesterday, €6 billion was put on the table by the Minister of Solidarity and Health. It is easy to say that this is not enough, but I invite Members on either side of the House to remember the amount of the previous envelopes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u81	We're talking about the future, not the past!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u82	Similarly, with regard to the organisation of work and services, we have made governance a central theme of Ségur, because caregivers must be on the front line to make decisions that affect them every day in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u83	So give us some money today!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u84	To tell you everything,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u85	We didn't see you much during the crisis, where were you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u86	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ... we now share the same ambition for our health care system. There has been much talk of the world after, in recent weeks. This next world could be that of a great project of society, in which health would finally occupy its rightful place in the life of the nation. The Segur of Health must lay the foundation stone for this project. Announcements will be made very soon. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] Caregivers are waiting more than just a motion for a resolution. I call on Members to reject it and to support the provisions that will soon be presented in the framework of the Segur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u87	Unbearable self-satisfaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u88	On the whole motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Republican Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u89	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u90	Madam Secretary of State, you have taken stock of your actions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u91	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u92	... an assessment that the President of the Republic himself has recently called into question – I will not recall his statements about the lateness and lack of ambition of the "my health 2022" strategy. This morning, the Republican Group did not propose that you question what has been done or what might be done in the context of the Segur of Health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u93	Yes, a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u94	It is simply a matter of sending a signal to health professionals...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u95	What about the $6 billion on the table?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u96	...who, for eighteen months, have been on the street every fortnight, to these health professionals who can no longer, who are not satisfied with the billions that Mrs Buzyn and Mr Véran have announced to them, because they do not provide any solution to the problems of the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u97	The problems were too old!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u98	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group, as well as from Mrs Valérie Six and Mrs Agnes Chill. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] We were just asking you for a gesture, just a signal, just a message, just a little understanding, and maybe also a little compassion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u99	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u100	We obviously have some echoes of the work of the Ségur, including the fact that the subject of restructuring, which is essential, has not been the subject of any announcement. We have the feeling that, during the discussion, the breakage continues. It was therefore essential to clarify the Government's intentions and, in the meantime, to take a break in restructuring. Members of the GDR Group ask for a clean and simple abandonment, but at least a break, given the shock that the public hospital has just received, is absolutely necessary. The proposal of our colleagues is certainly not revolutionary...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u101	And bim!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u102	...but she's welcome, let's say things as they are. A moratorium, as my colleague Alain Bruneel had requested in a petition on the Internet that had collected a number of signatures, seems to us to be responding to the urgency of the situation. We must not continue today to organize the public hospital break-up. If you want the discussions to be productive, you have to put everything on the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u104	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u105	From this debate I remember our convergence: we all have the same concern for the hospital. However, we do not provide the same answers. You want the restructuring freeze, where we want to adapt the hospital. We have made efforts: attest to the ONDAM, the recovery of the debt, the Ségur. The MODEM Group therefore shares the objective, but will not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u106	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u107	This is a very important moment, I recalled in the general discussion. Too many caregivers, too many patients have suffered from the crisis. The EDS Group considers it necessary to suspend the reorganizations for a time – and this time is not so long: a year. It's fundamental. With regard to mental health, once again, patients who were hospitalized during the crisis suffered greatly from a lack of resources and protection. The Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty reported many unnecessary and harmful detentions. Mental health should not be forgotten in proposals to freeze the restructuring and closing of beds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u108	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u109	We all have the same diagnosis; We are all in favour of a major reform, a major restructuring of the hospital. This motion for a resolution comes at a complicated time, as the Segur de la Santé project has begun and deep reflections are underway on the hospital and the health system. Our cure isn't exactly the same. I remember the agility that we were able to demonstrate. However, a moratorium has the disadvantage of freezing the process, and could also have adverse induced effects on patients. The Group of the European People's Party will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u110	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u111	The motion for a resolution is supposed to bring us together. But this is not the case, because there are two different ways of thinking. Some consider, and I am more of their opinion, that pending the conclusion of Segur, the closures of beds must be frozen. The question arises immediately not only in Nancy, but also throughout the country. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Let us therefore wait for the conclusions of the Ségur before deciding on the reorganisation of the beds. But for closures, there are urgent measures to be taken. The motion for a resolution provides a diagnosis and a concrete solution, not valid for the long term but for only one year. The IDU-I Group believes that it is common sense to accept it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u112	Otherwise, the ARS will decide. It's up to Parliament to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u113	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u114	A moratorium on the closure of beds and services is the strict minimum that we can demand in the difficult context that our hospitals and healthcare staff are experiencing. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote for the motion for a resolution. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] But, Madam Secretary of State, we also expect a lot of decisions and investments that the famous Ségur de la santé should achieve.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u116	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u117	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR and LT groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u118	What a mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u119	It does not provide any response to the current crisis in hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u120	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u121	What about you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u122	Since 2017, thanks to our majority, budgets have been rising, notably through an increase in ONDAM, after three years in which ONDAM was less than or equal to 2%. The evolution of the number of places in long-term care units has been accompanied by innovations in medical and drug technology in order to offer the alternatives to full-time hospitalization that our majority would like to encourage. In particular, the plan for the public hospital presented last November has made it possible to increase the investment on a daily basis: 150 million euros have been allocated as of January 2020 to invest in essential equipment for caregivers. It also provided for the resumption of one third of hospital debt, which we voted in the very recent bill on social debt and autonomy, in order to relieve their cash flow as quickly as possible and restore their capacity to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u123	Is that why the carers are on the street?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u124	We are carrying out structural reforms, adapted to each territory, to transform the provision of care and improve the articulation between city and hospital. The motion for a resolution is absolutely not part of this dynamic. It follows a centralizing method which has proved its ineffectiveness over the last fifteen years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The crisis of the Covid-19 confirmed the need for a change of course by our majority and the Government. The Ségur de la santé will collectively draw lessons from the crisis and, in conjunction with the "My Health 2022" plan, strengthen our health system in consultation with professionals. The recovery of one third of the hospital debt that we have just voted for is an amount of EUR 13 billion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u125	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u126	There are things I don't understand. What the motion for a resolution provides for is a freeze for a period of 12 months. It's not about cancelling all closures for ten years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u128	We didn't get out of the crisis, we're still in the middle of it, and we're asking you to take a 12-month break in the bed closures: that's not what I've seen most revolutionary! I don't understand your refusal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u129	That's because it's us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u130	At the end of your remarks, Madam Secretary of State, you felt that, for caregivers who had experienced the crisis or who participated in the Segur, closures were not the subject. However, on June 16, several of us were present with the strikers who were protesting, and that was the subject! On the signs, it was written "Stop closing our services! Stop closing beds! It's weird, we probably don't meet the same people... [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] But I was stationed when Mr.Lannelongue, President of the Greater East SAR, announced the continuation of the bed closures: I can tell you that it had the effect of a bomb in the services! Of course he was fired, and fortunately, but not because he thought so: because he said it too loud, and at the wrong time! The COPERMO's plan was not cancelled... Cancel it, and it will prove your good faith. The Republican Group simply asks you to freeze the closures for 12 months. That's all. The Members of the European Parliament support this proposal. On the other hand, let me point out that if we want to have fun referring to history, that of the Republicans or that of the Socialists, we still have to be on a bench where we have nothing to blame for. For my part, I could afford it, since I was not part of any government...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u131	[[Smile]] Maybe it will happen one day, Mrs. Fiat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u132	...and I have an experience. But when one is the majority of a President of the Republic who was the minister of the budget in the previous government,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u133	Minister of Economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u134	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] ...I don't think we can afford to give the Republicans lessons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u136	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u137	[[Smile]] At the end of these debates, I think we can find ourselves around this proposal for a revolution... pardon, resolution, not very revolutionary! Given the expectations of the French and those of the caregivers, this is the least that can be done, and it would not be at all incompatible with the Segur's behaviour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u138	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u139	On the contrary, it is better to observe a moratorium during the duration of these reflections, so as not to have to go back if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u140	Yes! We have the example of the Great East!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u141	I therefore believe that the time is right, especially since the health crisis has brought the difficulties of the public hospital to light, if still needed. I repeat, we could all find ourselves around this motion for a resolution. The Socialist and Related Group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u143	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u144	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Caregivers are looking at you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u145	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 66 Number of votes cast 66 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 28 Against 38
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u146	At the request of the group The Republicans, the meeting was suspended for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u147	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u148	The next item is the debate on the bill by Messrs. Stéphane Viry and Damien Abad, aiming to extend provisionally the scope of the governance of public health institutions (No. 3041, 3113).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u149	I call Mr Viry, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u150	We all measure on these benches what we owe to our hospitals. We measure all the sacrifices made by caregivers during the crisis: they worked day and night to ensure continuity of care. We know that without their work, the consequences of the epidemic would have been cataclysmic. We all know here, on these benches, that many have left their lives there. Covid-19 struck our country with unheard-of strength. Faced with this scourge, our hospitals have been on the front line, and never in our history has our health care system had to cope with such an influx of patients over such a short period of time. At the beginning of April, 30,000 people were hospitalized, including 7,000 in resuscitation. Let's remember this figure: 7,000 people, it's half the usual capacity of resuscitation services across the country! At the beginning of April, given the pace of the epidemic, hospitals in Île-de-France were in front of them twenty-four hours before the overload. To cope with this exceptional situation, health facilities have moved mountains: they have mobilized all their staff to meet the needs; they have deprogrammed all surgical procedures to release human time and means; they have carried out massive reorganisations in order to free up beds and open new ones. We owe this effectiveness to the actors on the ground. I want to pay tribute to their work, which has enabled our health care system to hold on. However, the caregivers told us, if the hospitals were able to adapt to the situation, it was not without harm. Exchanges between administrations and institutions have sometimes worked very well, sometimes less well. In general, I think that one can draw a statement without bitterness: the response to the crisis has sinned by too much centralism. I do not wish to dwell too much on the subject, because it is far beyond the scope of the bill, but we must ask ourselves about the structuring of our health response according to an exclusively vertical and descending logic, from the Ministry of Health to the regional health agencies. In many areas – masks, tests, staff mobilization – hospitals have shown very great qualities without the state having to do anything. The bill that I am presenting to you, ladies and gentlemen, has its consequences. It aims to show institutions our confidence in the future by giving them more autonomy to cope with a possible resumption of the epidemic. Of course, by taking a distracted look at our country at this moment, one might think that this is no longer necessary. As I travel the country, in Paris or in my constituency, I find with satisfaction a form of carelessness among our fellow citizens that had been lost during the period of confinement. Like all of you, I look forward to it. But the danger is there, fully there. You heard him like me, Professor Jean-François Delfraissy, president of the scientific council covid -19, told us a few days ago that the epidemic was not over and that the virus was still circulating; It would be wrong to let the opposite be believed. The intensity of the virus is less, but it hasn't disappeared. In other words, the second wave can happen at any time: in a few days, in a few weeks, in a few months, no one knows. The influence of environmental conditions on the virus is still unknown, adding to the uncertainties. The re-emergence of epidemic outbreaks in recent days in China, Germany and Portugal is not good news. In any event, this is an eventuality for which the hospital must be prepared. And this is not the only one: giving up care during the health crisis could also cause difficulties. Indeed, many French people with chronic diseases have made the choice, understandable, not to go to their treating doctor or hospital during confinement, for fear of contracting the virus. This phenomenon has grown to a certain extent, but we all know the long-term consequences of giving up care: unfortunately, these are often additional health problems. In this regard, Jerome Salomon spoke of a "silent wave. " It's obvious the hospital has to prepare for it. How can I help him? This bill provides a response by giving public hospitals more flexibility to carry out the reorganizations they would need. You know the regulations and the legislation: an authorization from the regional health agency – ARS – is required for the creation, consolidation or conversion of a care activity in the hospital. In the case of establishments, this involves a lengthy procedure, lasting up to five years. Of course, in times of crisis, a derogation regime exists, but it is again based on the authorisation of the SRA. In other words, regardless of the urgency of a health crisis, administrative authorisation is needed to reorganise services. In normal times, this system has its merits: it allows the supply of care to be controlled, avoiding the anarchic multiplication of services and equipment at the expense of the taxpayer. However, in the context of the crisis and uncertainty that we are experiencing, I do not believe that such a system can be relied upon. We must give more freedom of action at the local level. During his television address on 14 June, the President of the Republic called on him to "trust him more", to release "creativity and energy from the ground". He went on to say that he wanted to give "unprecedented freedoms and responsibilities to those who act as close as possible to our lives," in the first place to hospitals. The bill before your assembly this morning is precisely in that direction. Article 1 exempts public hospitals from health authorisation for a period of 12 months. For one year, public health institutions will be able to reorganize any care activities they wish, without having to apply for the SRA. This will greatly facilitate the creation of emergency activities. Ladies and gentlemen, do not misunderstand my intentions: under no circumstances does this text want to bring the ARS to trial...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u151	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u152	... by holding them responsible for the difficulties that may have been encountered. I said at the beginning of my intervention that hospital staff worked night and day to cope with the crisis, and so did RSA officers. To get to know those in my constituency, I measure their competence and I know that they are essential to our health care system. The text that I am defending is intended to establish an emergency mechanism, the application of which will remain quite exceptional, in a particular moment of crisis. It does not call into question territorial care planning or the role of RHAs – I would like to emphasize this point. This will be available to all public hospitals. Some, in committee, have expressed reservations because the private sector is not included in the scope. Do not see any mistrust of them on my part: private hospitals and clinics have been very heavily mobilized in the face of the crisis and have also been of remarkable effectiveness. I fully measure their contribution – forgetting it would be a mistake. However, the hearings have confirmed to us, the need for autonomy is not the same. Moreover, it is natural that this emergency law should be more targeted at public hospitals, which have been on the front line against the virus. The financing of the scheme will be covered by the regional intervention funds, excluding activity-based pricing. This will allow the heads of establishment to take all the necessary decisions, without fear of their budgetary balance. As a result of Article 3, changes to the provision of care will automatically be incorporated into the regional health scheme after the twelve months of application. Once again, it is a matter of securing the decisions taken, guaranteeing to heads of institutions and medical and nursing staff that the adaptations will not be cancelled overnight. Finally, article 2 provides that a report from the Government on the measures taken pursuant to this Act shall be submitted to Parliament ten months after its entry into force. Under no circumstances does this bill provide a blank cheque to school principals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u154	A double consultation is planned so that no decision is taken hastily and all the actors in the hospital are involved. I'll finish with these two guards. The first consultation will take place at the inter-hospital level, with the strategic committee of the local hospital group – GHT. This includes coordinating the efforts of the various hospitals in crisis situations and ensuring that everyone is well informed about the projects of the others. The second will take place inside the hospital: the director will have to obtain the assent of the medical board of establishment. This is important: it means that no decision made possible by this law and having consequences for services can be taken without the full consent of the medical profession. In short, I invite you today to trust hospitals. I propose that you leave a freedom of action to the heads of institutions, driven by the medical profession, to find the best solutions and create a suitable care offer. I insist on the word of trust, because hospitals deserve it. The way they have faced the crisis, the responsiveness, the responsibility and the decision-making capacity they have demonstrated, has shown us. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This bill has all the consequences. The Republican Group invites you to vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u155	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u156	Governance of health care institutions is at the heart of the unprecedented and historic exercise that is underway at this time. The ongoing consultations should draw all the lessons of the past few weeks. As you point out, one of them is undoubtedly about the great adaptability of health facilities. Thanks to the mobilization of caregivers, the lifting of bureaucratic obstacles and the territorial organization, the health system never failed during this crisis and the patients were taken care of. Caregivers say this: they feel free from unnecessary constraints and have regained the taste of their profession. The crisis has, therefore, given rise to a shock of simplification, many times hoped for and never witnessed. We must at all costs retain its benefits in all areas: the internal functioning of hospitals, the links with RHAs, human resources. Moving towards greater medicalization of governance means moving in the right direction. It is essential to enable actors on the ground to identify their needs in a concrete and flexible way. Your bill pursues this objective by opening up the possibility of creating any crisis-related care activity, such as converting or grouping activities, without the authorization of the SRA, if necessary after advice from the GHT. It would also be a matter of automatically integrating the new settlements thus created into the regional health scheme, after the twelve months that the scheme lasts. You are calling for greater flexibility in the management of authorisations in times of health crisis, which the RSA procedure would not offer. Much has been said in recent weeks about regional health agencies, and while some findings have been lucid and constructive, we have also heard many early and unfair judgments. I thank the rapporteur for his words of support for RSA agents. They have managed the health crisis with remarkable commitment. The administrative organization of our health system is not a cold and disembodied machine, it is made by women and men with a strong sense of public interest and who fight every day to find solutions to problems of a complexity that are not suspected. The flexibility that you legitimately seek already exists: the Order of 3 January 2018 allows SRAs to issue emergency and procedural derogations to institutions. This article found application with a March 2020 order which resulted in the granting of 176 exceptional authorisations between 22 March and mid-April. The rise of RSAs and care providers shows that this system worked well during the health crisis. However, it is true that the RSAs have refused non-qualitative applications, or have reworked them, hand in hand with the institutions, demonstrating, if necessary, the importance of their regional regulatory mission. Legislating is therefore not necessary to achieve the desired objective of flexibility. Thus, well-ordered charity starting with oneself, let us not expose health institutions to our insatiable appetite for new standards. In addition, the proposed law poses several legal and substantive problems. By opening up a possibility only to public health institutions, it poses the risk of a breach of equality with private institutions. On the other hand, it is essential that RHAs maintain a comprehensive view of the provision of care in the territory, which this bill does not envisage, since it excludes any reporting. In these circumstances, the risk of an uncontrolled multiplication of new authorisations in the territory is not to be overlooked. Finally, the text provides for the automatic integration of new settlements and thus makes final the adaptation measures taken unilaterally by the establishments, initially presented as provisional. As a result, the RSA would be deprived of any regulatory power for the entire duration of the regional health scheme. The scheme you wish to introduce would therefore make it possible to oppose authorisations and settlements which could, after the crisis, be deemed useless or even compete with other settlements, retained in territorial planning. Ladies and gentlemen, we share your concern to restore control over their needs and destiny to health institutions. They have adapted in a remarkable way, with speed, intelligence and imagination, to the constraints of an unprecedented health crisis. Much of the solutions that have been found will be sustained in the coming weeks and months. The territorial regulation of the health system has revealed weaknesses, that is true, and we need to correct them, but it has also shown extraordinary advantages. One of them is precisely that institutions can cope with the unexpected and deal with the unexpected. We are therefore sensitive to your proposal and its constructive spirit, but for legal and practical reasons we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u157	In the general debate, Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u158	Before we begin, I would like to apologize to my colleague Josiane Corneloup, who was to speak and who is currently sitting in committee. The health crisis we have experienced is unprecedented. In the face of such a crisis, two strategies are possible: either that of small steps – do nothing, do nothing, trust the actors in place – or the total overhaul of the health system in France. That is our objective. Jean-Carles Grelier presented this morning a motion for a resolution aimed at ensuring the permanence of care, which simply tended to freeze the closures of beds. Why? Because, Madam Secretary of State, we have experienced this episode of a regional director of ARS who, in the midst of a health crisis, announces his intention to close beds, in the most affected region! That is what we want to avoid. The bill advocated by Stéphane Viry follows the same logic: it is a question of promoting flexibility and adaptation in the field, simply by giving school directors permission to open more beds, posts or specialties. Why do we want to avoid permanent filters? Because the health system in France includes too many regulators and not enough caregivers. Our goal must be to strengthen the actors in the field, to enable those who are in daily contact with emergency doctors, with nurses, with all healthcare and hospital staff, to make decisions on the right scale. In our view, the bill is in the right direction. Why is this an emergency device? Because our health care system has been heavily affected by the health crisis. Since Germany has three times as many resuscitation beds as France, while it spends a lower share of GDP on health expenditure, it is clear that this is not only a problem of means, a problem of budget, an accounting problem: it is a question of organisation, structures, political will. This morning, unfortunately, it is lacking. We regret that, because we must act quickly. We are told a lot about the France of tomorrow, but we are already talking about the France of today, which, in a few weeks or a few months, may have to face a second wave of contamination! In this case, under the proposed legislation, the system will be flexible enough for a school principal to be able to add beds, close posts, and avoid administrative red tape and bureaucracy. For everything is a figure: today, in France, 35% of hospital jobs are administrative and bureaucratic. This means that one in three jobs is not assigned to the care system. That's what's going on and we need to change. The bill goes in this direction. You can send a positive signal this morning, the one you want to make a profound difference. You can also change them gradually, trusting the different actors. Beyond this text, the LR Group proposes a roadmap for the future. As the rapporteur said, our aim is not to criticize the SRAs, but to learn from the crisis, which raised the question of territorial governance. In our view, it is the prefect who must fly. There can be no ARS on one side and the prefect of the department on the other. We need enhanced coordination. There is also a need for more local elected officials, whether departmental or regional, to participate as such on the boards of directors of the RSAs, because they are the ones who finance the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u160	There is often talk of a new act of decentralization. This is a major issue. Earlier, Madam Secretary of State, you objected to us that the text, by granting the right to directors of public institutions, would create a breach of equality between the public and the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u162	In this case, propose an amendment extending this right to private institutions! We are ready to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u163	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u164	In my view, there is a need to strengthen bridges between the public and the private sector. This is one of the lessons to be learned from the health crisis. You also claim to be afraid of overflows. But do you think school managers want to create beds or jobs for nothing? Don't they have a personal as well as a professional responsibility? Should there be permanent control, almost daily, on the grounds that they would not live up to their function? [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] The reality is that we need to change our perspective, change our brace, and give a new perspective to health. That is the objective of the bill. It will be the first stone of a building. Don't destroy it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u165	Bravo! It's the incarnate talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u166	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u167	The governance of health facilities is a major, complex and often emphasized topic to explain in part the unease of caregivers and sometimes the dissatisfaction of patients. Since the HPST law – hospital, patients, health, territories – passed in 2009, hospital governance has been profoundly changed. Caregivers have been excluded from the decisions made by hospital managers, which has reinforced their sense of not being listened to and being suffocated by over-administration. Yes, the main thrust of the previous reforms was to impose a movement to tighten the hospital's policy space. The method of management has been deeply disrupted, with a strengthening of the vertical, hierarchical control of public supervision over hospitals. The crisis, I agree with you on this point, has shown the agility of hospitals and the importance of proximity. It remains to be seen whether this agility was caused by the administration or caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u168	Caregivers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u169	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] You visibly attribute it to the administration, since you want to give more power to the principals of the institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u170	No! It's the other way around!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u171	Dear Stéphane Viry, our discussions in committee, as well as the clarifications you have given me, have allowed me to better understand the spirit of your bill and to join you in the principle, which is to give priority to solutions coming from the field, especially when they are aimed at reviewing the governance of the hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u172	So we have to vote on the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u173	I would even say that giving more freedom and resources to the field is the solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u174	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u175	I don't know whether to focus on deconcentration or decentralization,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u176	Decentralization!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u177	... or whether to be a stateist or a girondin, but I am sure that proximity and the establishment of a short circuit in decision-making are the solution. However, let me point out our disagreements with your text, although, I repeat, I share the spirit in which it was drafted. I regret, as all the actors denounce an over-administration of hospitals, that you wish, if I understand correctly, to entrust even more power to the administrative directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u178	There will be mandatory consultations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u179	It's kind of like in a battle, you give command not to the fighters who are the caregivers, but to the stewardship and the genius. The hospital suffers from overadministration. In France, according to OECD figures, 35% of hospital jobs are not medical, but administrative. More than a third of hospital jobs don't see the sick! This rate is 24% in Germany and 30% in Switzerland. Today, in our hospitals, there are more and more administrative staff and fewer and fewer caregivers. Worse, some directorates divert caregivers from their initial assignments and assign them to administrative tasks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u180	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u181	A few years ago, when I was practicing, those we called chieftains, nurses or supervisors, were practicing in the midst of their nursing team. From now on, they work in their office, dressed in civilian clothes, and are obliged to hold meetings which often lead to new administrative constraints. Physicians and nurses, who are subject to these new administrative instructions, now spend more and more time performing administrative tasks in front of their computers or in meetings, and remain less and less with their patients.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u182	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u183	Doctors and nurses in our hospitals lack oxygen. The problem is not between regional health agencies and the management of hospitals, since they are people from the same curriculum, but at the level of the relationship between caregivers and the administration. If the bill is born of a good intention, I do not think it will solve the problem of hospital over-administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u184	We have to try! A little audacity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u185	Better coordination, more caregivers and less administrative. In addition, I would like to point out that Professor Claris, chairman of the Medical Committee for the Establishment of Civilian Hospitals in Lyon, has just delivered the conclusions of his mission to achieve the medicalisation of governance and to simplify the operation of the hospital. Did you read them? They are particularly interesting with regard to the administrative-care couple. The bill also comes in the middle of the Ségur de la santé, one of the axes of which is to radically simplify the organizations and the daily lives of the teams. We all agree to work on this, and I hope that the Segur will take our debates into account. For these reasons, although it does not support the text, the MODEM Group agrees on the need to address the issue of governance of health institutions and to promote, and this is the essential, a short circuit of decision-making.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u186	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u187	As we know, the health crisis has put a severe strain on our health care system, particularly our public hospitals, their caregivers as well as their organization and functioning. It has revealed better than ever the difficulties of the public hospital, that its servants are trying, we have seen it again last Tuesday, two steps away from this Chamber, to make the Government and the national representation heard. As the virus has been unevenly contaminated throughout the country, not all public health institutions were, in fact, subject to the same constraints, the same burden, the same tension and the same challenges – although the transfer of patients from the more affected regions to the least affected regions could have avoided a total imbalance, which would have prevented some hospitals from providing adequate care to all admitted patients. This crisis has also shown the great adaptability of caregivers, who have concentrated their efforts on the fight against covid-19, but this could only be done by deprogramming hospitalizations and non-emergency operations. We must draw the conclusions from this today and avoid the recurrence of these negative consequences for the functioning of hospital services. This is the purpose of the bill, which aims to increase the room for manoeuvre of school directors in order to create additional posts or beds, in the event of an epidemic rebound or a new episode of health crisis, but also so that non-emergency care that has been suspended during the crisis can be provided. We share these objectives. They are all the more important because, if the risk of a second wave is for the moment ruled out, the virus is still there and we have to deal with any eventuality. Today's rebound in China, or even Germany, demonstrates this. However, while there are laudable intentions, there is a contradiction in the proposed legislation. Article 1 provides for the possibility for school directors to "make any opening of beds or recruitment in order to adapt the provision of care". It also allows them, by way of derogation, to "create, convert and consolidate care activities within the public health institution". We can only encourage a text that offers such an option in a context of urgency and by way of derogation, but if these conversions and groups of activities have the sole objective of responding to an emergency situation and are purely circumstantial, as the text itself specifies, why should we wish to make them lasting, in Article 3, by integrating them with an amendment to the regional health scheme? In addition to this contradiction of an emergency system designed to be sustainable, the text presents a minimum reform of the public hospital. In this way, it risks increasing the inequalities between territories in access to health care and health care. A reform of the hospital, even a minimum, must necessarily be the subject of national treatment and be financed under the draft law on the financing of social security. It is indeed the only way to guarantee national solidarity and to give a guarantee of clarity, intelligibility and fairness. In particular, we should be wary of what can be covered by the concept of institutional autonomy, which could create disparities between hospitals and territories. To the Socialist and related group, we believe that, despite the urgency and exceptional nature of the present circumstances, such a reform should not be exempted. Moreover, we did not wait for the crisis to propose one. On 22 October, we presented a massive plan to support the hospital and autonomy. This included 15 measures, including an increase in the remuneration of hospital caregivers and non-caregivers, an investment plan, including a resumption of hospital debt, and the introduction of a simple rule: zero termination of sick leave or bed. I regret the fact that the Government and its majority have once again spoken out. The crisis has led us to rework and update our proposals: our recovery plan for an economic, social and ecological rebound includes once again an ambitious reform for the public hospital. We are proposing a massive investment plan of around EUR 10 billion, which would raise the annual level of investment to EUR 6 billion. We also advocate increasing the remuneration of caregivers, ending staff reductions and making clear and quantified commitments in terms of job creation. Finally, we propose to finance emergency services on the basis of indicators of precariousness and to reform ONDAM. While this bill is intended to achieve ambitious and essential objectives, the method on which it is based does not fully meet the principles of coherence, clarity and fairness, which are necessary for any reform. There is a need for deep reflection on the public hospital. That is why we will abstain from voting on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u188	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u189	This crisis has highlighted our limitations. Let us draw the conclusions, without throwing the stone at anyone: we need less administration and more human and ground. So let's work together to reorganize our health care system as close as possible to the territories. We must succeed in rethinking its geographical articulation, in order to be closer to our fellow citizens and to give French and French people rapid access to quality care. Let us break down the maps and end with this budgetary rigour which kills our hospitals and has been reflected, for years, in a flagrant lack of human and material resources. The victims are our fellow citizens and, ultimately, the hospital staff themselves. It is therefore necessary to invest heavily in public hospitals, in order to motivate the healthcare staff, who showed during this crisis how indispensable it was. We must also show greater autonomy and organizational flexibility. An effective, responsive, useful and flexible system should be created. Let us say this, Madam Secretary of State: this implies a reform of regional health agencies, in order to better involve them with elected officials and local actors. Saying that, I don't throw the stone at the ARS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u190	I'll do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u191	As you and Stéphane Viry have indicated, not everything is to be thrown into their action during the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u192	They're creating an extra stratum!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u193	Nevertheless, their fragility has been shown, and it has been found that their functioning can be greatly improved. On the other hand, the ills of the public hospital go hand in hand with the deficiencies of city medicine and the existence of medical deserts. These problems need to be addressed together: we need to reduce the number of emergencies by improving patient care and follow-up, and we need to re-energize doctors to where they are most needed. The geographical and social divides of our country must be addressed. In order to further territorialize our health policies, the purpose of this bill is to grant temporary organizational autonomy to public hospitals, giving full authority to directors. On this point, I am not joining my colleagues in the Republican Group. Indeed, the management of medical and paramedical care, the representatives of the users, the unions, and the supervisory board should be more involved in the management of hospitals: it is up to the latter to be in the service of the care, not the other way round. In the majority of hospitals, the director is already omnipotent. It is not up to him to give more power, it is to the actors I have just mentioned. That is why, although I share the findings behind this bill and its objective – to increase the flexibility of the hospital system – I am opposed to the conclusions it draws and to the proposed measures: I do not believe that the power of hospital directors should be strengthened. At this stage of the debate, the IDU and independent group is therefore planning to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u194	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u195	If we can say that we are proud that our health care system has resisted an epidemic as deadly as it is sudden, it is because we have been able to count on the unwavering mobilization of the men and women who make it stand. They were also able to benefit from interregional solidarity and the support of local and regional authorities. For example, capacity has been increased throughout the country through the rapid start of the white plan in hospitals and the reorganization of services. Private clinics have also been used as an additional proof that unbundling between the public and the private sector should be encouraged. City medicine has reinvented itself, even when the protective equipment was not on the rendezvous. In short, the urgency has forced us to adapt, to cooperate and above all to be reactive. Unfortunately, the crisis has also highlighted the dysfunctions of a care system weakened by chronic under-investments and permanent budgetary restrictions. The priority is there, and we have known it for many years. Accounting logic, activity pricing and low career attractiveness have resulted in the closure of services and beds, as well as a shortage of staff. This mode of operation, already inadequate in calm weather, is even more in the midst of an epidemic. If the Ségur de la santé does not provide an answer to these issues, it will have been a vain concertation of more. Beyond the lack of resources, the health crisis of the Covid-19 has confirmed two observations, which have been discussed repeatedly in our debates in recent years and which the Freedom and Territory Group had constantly drawn up. On the one hand, the governance of health facilities and the way in which regional health agencies operate require a vertical, centralized vision, and a technostructure that is often inadequate for the needs of the territories and is remote from the realities experienced by caregivers. On the other hand, as the most effective and innovative initiatives often go from the closest to the field, it is necessary to rely on caregivers, who know how to adapt and organise with intelligence, as well as on local elected officials, who know their territories very well. The decisions of the RSAs have sometimes given rise to misunderstandings, especially when local authorities were called to order for ordering masks. In addition, not all SRAs have made the choice of accompanying liberal physicians in the creation of centres for the detection of covid-19 patients. These malfunctions do not date from the crisis. The actors on the ground have been reporting for many years that RSAs are too often acting as a brake on innovative projects, rather than facilitating them. Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group, who call for greater flexibility and greater room for manoeuvre on the part of the territories to innovate, including in the field of health, can only share the philosophy of this bill. The aim is to establish a flexible and effective system, which is useful in times of health crisis. On many occasions, our group has also proposed measures to introduce more flexibility. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] To allow immediate and derogatory adjustments to the directors of establishments to cope with an influx of patients, without the prior authorisation of RSAs, seems to us to be quite appropriate. Our group will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u197	We recall, however, that beyond emergency arrangements, we cannot avoid a thorough reflection on the governance of health care institutions – which must give greater attention to caregivers – and on the logic of budget restraints that result in bed closures and lack of staff. The Segur of Health must lead us to a profound transformation of the present system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u198	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u199	We will never say it enough: thank you to the medical, medical, technical, administrative teams and the directors, who were able to organize themselves quickly at the beginning of the epidemic to increase our hospital capacity and to cope, as far as possible, with the wave of the sick. The responsibility of the group The Republic on the move in the crisis is great. While we have been alerting the Government since the beginning of the legislature about the lack of beds, the lack of medical and nursing staff and the lack of recognition of hospital professions, the past three years have been marked by closures of beds, hospital services and community hospitals. In the midst of an unprecedented movement of health care workers' strikes last fall, we were already approaching the disaster because of a lack of resuscitation beds. At the time, twenty-two children had to be transferred to Rouen, Caen, Amiens or Reims from the francilian region, for lack of sufficient children's beds, a perfect illustration of the absurdity of the method of making forced walking savings on health. In his programme, Emmanuel Macron planned to achieve 15 billion euros in savings in this area. It must be noted that he is in the process of achieving this. He even seems to be proud of it, as his last televised speech shows: a shame! The current situation of our health facilities cannot therefore be explained solely by organizational problems. Nevertheless, the question of hospital governance deserves to be asked and I thank the rapporteur for allowing us to discuss it today. We understand the laudable intention behind this bill: to adapt to each local context and take advantage of promising experiments to combat non-use of care and avoid a second wave of the epidemic. We too welcome certain initiatives that have been taken and share this objective. However, it should not conflict with the desire to establish a genuine health democracy and to offer a fair and harmonised health care package throughout the country. Since the so-called Bachelot Act of 21 July 2009, school directors have already had very extensive powers, which are often opposed to medical logic. Leaving them alone masters on board puts them at risk of major drifts and unequal breaks in access to care. In addition to being dangerous, it would certainly be ineffective, because the right decisions are always made by many, not alone. An emergency system already exists, which allows hospital managers to obtain exceptional authorisations within a very short period of time. Burning this type of device into the marble of the law would not be desirable. To understand this, it is necessary to recall the current context, that of the straitjacket of activity pricing and hospital groupings. The logic of local hospital groups – GHT – is deadly for public health institutions, because it destroys the diversity of hospital supply and increases the complexity of management, to the detriment of local and medium-sized hospitals. In such a context, what should be expected of school directors, if not to play the role of the Government by closing beds, services and dismissing staff? You make a mistake if you think it would be enough to give them the keys to health facilities to improve the situation. In the end, what should be the role of the ministry and its relays in the territories, regional health agencies? It should be clear rules for a harmonised health policy at the national level, and not, in any case, for a policy of austerity that suffocates our health facilities, puts them in competition with each other and despises health democracy. What should be the role of the school principal? It should be to implement health policy by adapting to local contexts, in co-decision with healthcare teams, such as a trait of union, a conductor, an animator of health democracy, and not, in any case, to decide alone on hospital groupings, closures of services and beds, with only the objective of the savings to be achieved, and for the only map an accounting and managerial vision. Who should be in charge of the public hospital, at the heart of its governance, if not the medical and nursing teams, close to the realities of the field, as well as the users, both ignored by this bill? This is the sine qua non for a fair diagnosis and human management of establishments. In no case should this governance be confiscated by technocratic structures distant from patients or by hospital managers reduced to the function of managers. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The public hospital is not a company. We need to get out of a structure that is too bureaucratic and vertical to move on to a more humane and horizontal logic. That is why the La France insoumée group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u200	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u201	During the health crisis, we were able to see the excellence of the French hospital. In the face of an unprecedented crisis, health care providers and all hospital staff have demonstrated remarkable organizational capacity. We owe them admiration and above all respect. It was their ability to adapt, their courage and their investment that enabled the hospital to hold. To deal with this crisis, hospitals have shown adaptability. They mobilized all their staff to meet the needs, deprogrammed some surgical procedures; They have reorganized themselves massively to free up or even create beds. Our health care system is structured hierarchically, from the Ministry of Health to RHAs and institutions. RSA authorization is required to create, consolidate or convert care activities, which takes a long time, and even if derogation schemes exist, their application remains subject to sometimes lengthy prior authorizations to be obtained. By agreeing to relax certain procedures, by freeing themselves from certain administrative burdens, staff were able to respond effectively to an unprecedented problem. Should we get rid of these rules? I am tempted to respond to the Norman, by swaying between a frank "yes" who wants to free the initiatives, and a cautious "no", who thinks that the administrative rules are there to protect, not slow down, even if they sometimes result in longer deadlines. It is my pride in Habraise, in Normande, that shows itself in this reasonable balance, very distant, rapporteur, from a guilty indecision! This law exempts public hospitals from health authorisations for a period of 12 months, during which public health institutions could carry out any creation, consolidation or conversion of care activities they would like, without having to apply for the authorisation of the RSA. This would change from an authorisation regime that may sometimes be too restrictive to a total lack of authorisation. These provisions would not meet the challenges, in particular because they would exclude private health institutions, which were equally essential during this crisis. In addition, an exceptional authorisation procedure is already provided for in the event of a state of health emergency – more than 150 authorisations have been granted to public and private hospitals during this crisis. In addition, the removal of SRAs would prevent any regional coordination and regulation that was seen during this crisis to have saved lives, for example by allowing the transfer of patients from the Far East to areas with unsaturated hospital capacities. Our hospitals have found room for manoeuvre and the administration has shown voluntarism. The teams organized themselves in a smooth and efficient manner, combining the efforts of the health care staff, management teams, technical and administrative teams. So yes, the hospital's great simplification project remains open, and I assure you that the Ségur de la santé will bring recommendations in this area. Yes, there is a need to reform the hospital, especially the administrative procedures that aim to improve service to patients, but which have sometimes had harmful effects. However, attention must be paid to the risks of emotional decisions and, in this area, I firmly believe in broad-based consultations based on feedback, as they are currently being carried out within the framework of the Segur of Health. Yes, there is an urgent need for action, but with due care when we touch our hospital of excellence. Yes, we need to work on governance and bridges between the public and the private, but strengthening hospital administration is not the solution. Rather, there is a need to develop coordination between caregivers and management, while giving full consideration to users. Mr rapporteur, if we agree on the objective or even the philosophy of your bill, we do not agree on the method. Acting together will not lend its support to this text, for lack of adherence to the path it sets out to achieve our common objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u202	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u203	Faced with this health crisis, hospital staff did as they could – as usual. They managed the shortage: shortage of masks, blouses, medication, breathers, personnel. They had to adapt to an unprecedented health situation that called for rapid responses to cope with the influx of patients into emergency and resuscitation services and to adapt other services to new conditions. It was thanks to them that the hospital held. This is why it is necessary to respond as quickly as possible to their demands, which are of general interest: to hire staff, to recognize the efforts of staff through wage increases, to end closures, and to empower them to practise their profession. In order to reduce expenditure, the public hospital has been reorganized and cost managers have been installed at the head of major centres, institutions have been grouped together, tasks outsourced, and requisitions have been played. These are political choices. You're inviting us to reopen the hospital governance project. It is obvious that we cannot leave this organization disconnected from needs. We share with you, dear Stéphane Viry, many observations and the desire, no doubt, to give air to the public hospital, but for this, more health democracy is needed. Where is it when everything is cost-driven, when the goal is to do as many acts as possible? The right to health cannot be subordinated to the laws of the market, and the lessons of the health crisis in this area should not be forgotten. The public hospital service suffers from accounting and managerial management, which makes the medical profession and elected officials more intelligent. This is the result of the entire system that has been put in place through local hospital groups and RHAs, which must never be forgotten that they depend on the decisions of the ministry. Humans and care must be put at the heart of the health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u204	All right! We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u205	On this point, your text takes care to give prerogatives to the Medical Establishment Committee in matters of management, which is in the right direction. However, we are reserved for the rest of the bill. We believe that problems will not be solved, especially the essential question of the means of hospitals, by giving them more autonomy. Even before the outbreak, beds were missing – 103000 were removed between 1993 and 2018 – staff, medical equipment. Since the beginning of our mandate, €3 billion in savings have been requested from hospitals. Protests have taken place, a multi-month emergency strike and now an epidemic to take the subject seriously. Our public hospitals have certainly resisted the crisis, but at the cost of the exhaustion of staff, of a renunciation of the important care of our fellow citizens, of the impossibility of taking leave for caregivers, of the emergency creation of hospital beds. It is necessary to get out of this "management by the scramble". The idea of giving institutions more autonomy, implemented in other areas of public action, has always been accompanied by reductions in resources and a form of competition between institutions, exacerbating territorial inequalities. It is not a question of putting aside the creativity of staff, services and institutions, which must play a leading role in the life of a hospital, because every hospital is a living organism, but, to make this possible and beneficial, we must remove the locks and give effective priority to the public hospital, our tool, in particular by financing its equipment and basing its reorganizations on the development projects emanating from the teams. Health democracy must be brought to life with all health actors and local actors in order to see a progressive transformation of the public hospital. In this regard, the self-management model does not seem to address the issues. We may even fear that, in the wake of the crisis, these provisions will serve as an accelerator and pretext for forced reorganisations that do not adequately meet the needs. What the public service needs, more than an emergency mechanism, is a long-term vision, which allows for the exit of short-sighted budgets and ONDAM. This is the meaning of the proposed law in favour of a programming law for the public hospital and residential institutions for dependent elderly people that we submitted for discussion here last week, within the framework of the parliamentary niche assigned to the GDR group. There is, however, some convergence of diagnosis, which calls for strong and courageous decisions in favour of the public hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u206	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u207	During the last few months of the health crisis, we have seen the hospitals transform, react agility to manage to treat us in spite of the worst forecasts. To the fears, the anxieties of this uncertain period, faced with an unknown virus, the health system responded with speed, pragmatism and commitment. Here I want to thank all those involved in this crisis. Today we are considering a bill that aims to give full powers to the directors of public health institutions by removing the role of regional health agencies or any other regulatory or coordinating body. But can crisis management and the simplification hoped for by healthcare professionals do without the actors in regulation? The successive reforms of the organisation and governance of hospitals carried out over the last twenty years, with the support of all the benches of this assembly, have all identified and promoted this need for territorial coordination and regulation, even in times of crisis. If the purpose of the bill is the right one, namely simplification, the proposed means and tools are inadequate. You want to replace a system that has proved its worth during this crisis with a device that, if you look closely at it, turns out to be much more time consuming, less reactive, less effective. Indeed, as those of us who put on their white coats were able to observe it on the ground, the hospitals managed to reorganize quickly. Whether public or private, they have been able to double the number of resuscitation beds in the territory while ensuring the emergency and follow-up of other pathologies requiring care, thanks to the commitment of the actors of the land and the existing legislative tools, which have enabled them to obtain permits to open beds or resuscitation services within 24 hours. What you propose, on the other hand, would take no less than seven days. Ladies and gentlemen, are you sure that this is really a simplification, a greater reactivity? In addition, your bill makes no mention of the private sector. But if our health system was able to hold during the crisis, it was thanks to the mobilization of all its actors. As early as March, clinics deprogrammed operations that were not urgent and participated in the national effort to increase resuscitation capacity. Crisis management mechanisms cannot ignore these committed actors, which are an integral part of the mapping of our health system. Beyond a lack of coherence, this omission also poses a constitutional problem of a breach of equality between public and private institutions. A lot remains to be done to meet the need for simplification that you have identified. In the coming months, we will need to make authorizations, administrative processes more fluid and to further support the organizational innovations of our hospitals. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The Ségur de la santé provides an outline of solutions in consultation, for and with actors in the field. The tremendous energy we have observed, the mobilization of caregivers, agility and responsiveness in patient management must be sustained, with the right tools. Trust must be strengthened for caregivers – for all caregivers, whether in the city or in the hospital, in both the private and the public. Capitalizing on the forces of the hospital cannot go with, as you propose, temporary devices and a variable scale; One cannot be satisfied with a lack of territorial vision and deregulation of the health system – and such deregulation is neither desirable nor beneficial to caregivers and patients. That is why the Group of the Republic on the move will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u208	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u209	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u210	In China or, closer to us, in Portugal, and even at our gates, in Germany, the emergence of new outbreaks of contagion obliges us to re-establish restrictions comparable to those that France knew a few weeks ago. Experts call for greater caution and vigilance; They do not exclude the occurrence of a second epidemic wave in the fall or winter. It is therefore necessary to draw very quickly the lessons of the period we have just passed, which is not yet behind us. In this context, our colleague Stéphane Viry's bill, supported by the Republican Group, makes sense: it aims to allow public health institutions to organise their services in a way that is derogatory in order to prepare for a renewed epidemic. In other words, it gives actors in the front line greater flexibility and flexibility in organisation. Yesterday, on all benches, we unanimously rented a health care system that had been able to adapt, in an emergency, to the extreme conditions of exercise imposed by the virus, in order to save lives. Today, we must legally consolidate this acquis in order to avoid any eventuality. This is the purpose of this text: to grant immediate and derogatory authorization to school directors to carry out all the creations of posts, beds and specialties made necessary by the end of the crisis. In the Committee on Social Affairs, the majority postponed – as usual – what could be done here and now, under dubious and irrelevant pretexts. She refuses to accept her responsibilities, waiting once again for a prophetic text of the Government, whose merits she will assign herself. But it will be too late, once again – again too much, because the virus, if it has to rise again with the same intensity as yesterday, which I obviously do not wish, but which I fear, will not wait for us. Our colleague Stéphane Viry's proposal for a law will allow public institutions and their services to organize themselves in order to deal with a possible second epidemic wave. The health crisis has profoundly changed the organization of hospital services: some have had to operate day and night, while others have been poorly mobilized in relation to their usual activity. As we know, the tension on hospital beds does not date from yesterday, nor even from the crisis of the covid-19. When I myself wore the white blouse, before becoming a Member of Parliament, we already lacked human and material resources. The crisis has highlighted the remarkable adaptability of caregivers, services and institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u212	This period demonstrated that when the hospital regained room for manoeuvre and the administration was voluntary, the teams were able to organize themselves agilely and efficiently. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups]] I have a thought for the hospitals in the Oise department, especially for the hospitals in my constituency, including the one in Clermont-de-l'Oise, which were able to respond in an exemplary way when we were the first epidemic in France. Applause, medals and holiday vouchers will not suffice, and that is not what caregivers want: they want means. Like all the French, we no longer want to see them put on garbage bags or mobilize volunteers to sew blouses in old sheets.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u213	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u214	Let's give them a breath of oxygen, and let's pass this bill! Let us give the institutions immediate and derogatory authorization, so that they can make all the creations of beds, posts or specialties made necessary by the exit from the crisis, without the prior authorization of the ARS – administrative stratum which, in my opinion and according to my political family, would deserve to be restructured... but this is not the subject of the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u216	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Today, it is a matter of establishing an emergency mechanism, regardless of the conclusions that will emerge from the Segur of Health. Let us act now, here – action and reaction, we can no longer wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u217	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u218	"This bill is not intended to propose a reform of hospital governance but is an emergency mechanism. It only maintains for a few months what proved its worth during the crisis: a flexible mechanism, allowing institutions to adapt quickly, while taking concerted decisions as close to the ground as possible. This concludes the explanatory statement of the text, and everything is said in these few words. What our colleague Stéphane Viry is proposing is simply to extend what hospitals have done during the health crisis of coronavirus; it is to adapt to the emergencies of the field; It is to match the law and the reality – and it is rare enough to emphasize it and to welcome it. What does the crisis teach us? First, when the hospital regains room for manoeuvre and the administration takes over, health personnel are able to organize their operation "in a fluid and efficient manner," to quote the bill. Excellent news! May we draw the consequences and stop entrusting all powers to RHAs in the field of health; let us instead reinvest the local level with confidence. Second education, much less positive: many French gave up care because of confinement, afraid of the Government's inability, initially, to provide masks to general practitioners. City doctors have been the great forgotten of the health crisis. Between 2 and 30 March, the number of appointments made to generalists was in freefall, an average of 64%. Disoriented by the lack of clear instructions, but in accordance with the messages broadcast by the media, the French turned massively to the urgent medical aid service, on the 15th, which was redirecting them to hospitals already largely under stress. Unfortunately, many of our fellow citizens have simply given up their care, delaying often essential care. Government announcements allowing patients under chronic treatment to go directly to pharmacies, without going through the doctor, have not made it easier. This cessation of care is obviously dangerous for public health. There is therefore a need for mechanisms through which the population will return to hospitals, particularly for hospitalizations and non-emergency, but necessary operations, suspended during the crisis. The interruption of many medical or surgical activities has not been without consequences. In Béziers, the hospital and the private clinics reached an irreproachable agreement. Thanks to the intelligence and sense of the general interest of all the partners, the medical and surgical establishments have reached a perfect agreement and organized themselves to deal with any possibility of an acute health crisis. Beds or even whole services have been released to cope, if necessary, with a massive influx of patients with covid -19 – which, fortunately, has not taken place. This organisation has had a twofold consequence: a health consequence first, since chronically ill patients have often been put aside for the benefit of emergencies, and their pathologies have sometimes worsened; a practical consequence then, positive this time, since public and private institutions have shown that they are perfectly able to agree, organize and distribute activities, while at the same time working together to preserve their ability to react in the event of a second epidemic wave. It was a demonstration of the best possible intelligence between the public and the private. Let's stop competing with them! The opposition between public and private is maintained by health ideologists,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u219	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u220	... while field practitioners know how to work hand in hand. Since they have shown responsibility, why not go further? Let's give them the power of decision! Let's give hospitals the flexibility to organize themselves, and let's dispense them with the health authorizations of RHAs, which regulate everything and unnecessarily lengthen response times. This would greatly facilitate the creation of emergency activities. This is the necessary condition to prepare hospitals for a new health disaster. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] Hospitals deserve our trust. I will obviously vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u221	The general discussion is closed. On Article 1, a request for a public vote is submitted to the Republicans Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u222	Clearly, we all agree on the importance of the subject we are discussing today, and that this text is in the right direction. Thus, it seems unanimously accepted that the philosophy of the bill is good. Everyone also agrees, it seems to me, that the answers must be given as close to the ground as possible, and that local actors must be trusted. They must be given greater freedom and responsibility in order to adapt decisions to the circumstances. This means removing many authorisations and putting an end to bureaucratic formalism; If you did not accept it, your actions would contradict your words. Finally, we unanimously recognize the urgency of the situation. France remains vulnerable, and we cannot wait for what deadline – the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé, perhaps? – to comment on the temporary governance of hospitals. While acknowledging the quality of the text, some felt that legislation was not appropriate. On the contrary! Currently, derogatory measures granted to hospitals require the approval of RSAs. However, the purpose of our legislation is precisely to amend the law, allowing for the circumvention of SRAs. That is the whole difference between the status quo you are advocating – while recognizing that the text is in the right direction – and our proposal, which draws the immediate consequences of the crisis that we have just been going through.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u223	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u224	Let's look at things pragmatically. A hospital director doesn't make his decisions every week! He is attentive to the needs and solutions of the medical profession, and he declines them in management and organization. In practice, therefore, there is collegiality within hospitals – the director acting as an armed arm, because of his responsibilities. Believe that this bill is empirical; It repeats what we observed and heard during the epidemic wave. As for the breach of equality between the public and the private, that nenni! On the one hand, the scope of the bill does not concern the private sector, which by its very nature is much more autonomous and does not require authorisations. On the other hand, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council already recognizes very widely the difference in treatment between private and public institutions, including in the field of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u225	Happy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u226	Therefore, this argument is not valid. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] I would like to provide you with these clarifications and comments before the articles are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u227	It's just common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u228	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u229	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u230	In the previous speeches, we were able to hear above all what was not Stéphane Viry's bill. It does not call into question the governance of hospitals, because the measure is provisional, the text provides for consultation, and even more and better than consultation: a assent of the medical commission of establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u231	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u232	This means that the proposals will be co-constructed by the medical profession and by the administrative management of the institution. Nor does it call into question regional health agencies. As Stéphane Viry has explained very well in his opening remarks, on the contrary, it aims at the local, pragmatic application of the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say to manage at best, as close to the territories and the needs of the institutions, the adaptation which the health crisis has just highlighted the need. This adaptation must protect us against a second wave of which, to date, we are not completely protected. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] That is what this bill from the Republicans Group is about and defended by our excellent colleague Stéphane Viry. It is absurd to want to read something else between the lines. Pragmatism, subsidiarity, adaptation to the capacities of the territories and health institutions: this is precisely what the staff and the institutions themselves expect today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u233	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u234	We say, not that we must not legislate, but that your bill is satisfied with the orders of January 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u235	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u236	I refer you to article L. 6122-9-1 of the Public Health Code, under which a health institution may be authorized to practise for six months, renewable once, "a care activity other than that under which it was authorized".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u237	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u238	No notice or consultation is required; authorisation may be granted within 24 hours. Recently, 176 were issued at the request of local actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u239	Delivered by who?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u240	You propose to convene the medical establishment commission, the strategic committee of the territorial hospital group; It's very good, it's concertation, but it's impossible to do in less than ten days. There is already a legislative provision which enables action to be taken within 24 hours and which responds to the demands of actors on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u241	That's not true! Give us one example of something that has been done in twenty-four hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u242	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The group La République en marche will therefore vote against this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u243	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u244	I would like to return to the last point raised by the rapporteur, on the idea that there should be a kind of balance, equity, between public and private institutions. We can't reason that way, let alone in terms of health! The public sector has a special responsibility; It must respond to needs with strength and effectiveness, and guarantee everyone's right to health throughout the country. Public hospitals are tools we give ourselves in this perspective. They have neither the same nature nor the same role as private institutions; It is only at the cost of a blond reasoning that one can claim the opposite. We must do everything we can to ensure that these tools, for which we are responsible, are up to date, not to organise equal competition between the public and the private sector. That would put one more finger in the gear of health-absorbing merchandising. This confusion is regrettable, and I deplore the fact that such a shift is becoming more pronounced in the course of the social security financing bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u245	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u246	Mrs Rist, it is not unnecessary to legislate, since the purpose of this text is precisely to remove the authorization of the Director General of the RSA under Article L. 6122-9-1 of the Public Health Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u247	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u248	You will agree: at present, in order to benefit from this derogation, the director of the institution must prepare a file. All those we heard in the preparatory hearings for this text told me that what they were concerned about, what they were devoting their energy to, was finding masks, hydro-alcoholic gel, absorbing legislative inflation; In the interests of patients, they had much more to worry about than administrative formalities. In view of these dreadful conditions of exercise, I want them to be saved from having to obtain this authorisation. That is the meaning of this bill, inspired by the findings on the ground. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard also applauds]] I would add, ladies and gentlemen, that you all share the spirit of this text, its philosophy and its objectives. According to a number of stakeholders, however, you are reluctant to adopt the content. I'm surprised. Let us say that this text goes in the right direction, that it raises real, topical questions, but that the modalities are perfect; in this case, you should have tabled amendments in quantity! You could have tried to change it, instead of keeping away! We are here to seek to perfect a proposal of departure, based on our opinions and convictions, and not to dismiss it by means of misleading arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u249	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u250	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 53 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 20 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u251	We'll remember!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u252	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill. As all the articles were rejected, the bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u253	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u254	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u255	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u256	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Gilles Lurton and others to ensure the payment of the birth premium before the birth of the child (No. 1160, 3115).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u257	Mr Gilles Lurton, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u258	[[Smile]] All Saint-Malo listens to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u259	The purpose of this bill is a marker of my successive mandates. The weeks prior to the arrival of a child in a family are special. These are moments of joy, sometimes of anguish; In any case, they are exceptional in the life of a home because they are dedicated to the final preparations before birth. During the last weeks of pregnancy, future parents, anxious to receive their child in the best conditions, must buy everything that is indispensable to the newborn from the very first days. It is from the exit of maternity that the newborn needs a car seat to reach his first home, a couffin for his first nap, a stroller for his first outings, as well as a bathtub, a changing table, some clothes and many childcare items. You see: if the birth of a child remains an invaluable asset, it has a cost! The birth premium of 947 euros tends to allow families whose incomes do not exceed a certain threshold to meet the first expenses associated with the arrival of this child. The resource ceilings are high, so that it also benefits middle-class families – the ceiling is 49000 euros per year for a dual-activity couple with two children. Every month, nearly 45,000 beneficiaries receive this bonus, which is an essential element of our family policy – but it still needs to be able to play its full role by being paid at the time when parents need it most. Until 2015, the birth premium was, quite logically, paid before the birth of the child in the seventh month of pregnancy. However, the previous majority decided, by decree, to shift the payment after birth. This decision, which I have constantly challenged, penalizes families who need this help to prepare materially for the arrival of a new child, in serene conditions. Worse, it was taken in spite of common sense, because it was long before birth, and not after birth, that families equip themselves. Nor should we neglect the emotional dimension of these preparations. Moreover, this discrepancy is contrary to the spirit of the law, which provides that the premium is awarded for every child born before birth – the law has not been amended in this case. By reinstating the payment of the premium before birth, we would restore its legal consistency to the Social Security Code, which was not amended when the Government issued the decree in December 2014. Moreover, this delay in time cannot be justified by the need to achieve savings at family level. It does not make it possible to identify any real savings, since neither the award criteria nor the amount of the premium have been changed. It only resulted in a cash gain for social security agencies, estimated by CNAF, the National Fund for Family Allowances, at €239 million in 2015. This gap, which had no financial consequences in subsequent years, continued to penalize tens of thousands of families each month. It is often argued that families can benefit from a loan or advance from their family allowance fund, which they will have to repay when they receive the premium. However, this loan, far from being equivalent to the advance payment of the premium, presupposes that families are informed of this right and that they take a proactive step to assert it, contrary to the automatic payment of the birth premium. This procedure further weakens households that cannot advance all the costs prior to the birth of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u261	Some families do not dare to do so, because of a sense of guilt; Others may feel harmed in their dignity by having to queer a right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u262	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u263	In addition, the advance payment of this aid, which will then be repaid at the time of collection of the birth premium, further complicates access to rights, in a general context of waiving rights. There is an urgent need to reverse the wrong decision taken in December 2014 and to pay the premium again before the child's birth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u265	This is the purpose of the single article of this bill. This common sense measure is unanimous among all the family associations – whom I would like to thank for the support they have given me. With their support, I propose every year amendments to the Social Security Financing Bill in order to shift the payment of the premium at birth; Other Members from different parliamentary groups do the same. These amendments have always been voted on by all opposition groups, but rejected by the majority group. The measure to advance the payment of the premium before birth has therefore always been rejected by the majority, until last week, when my bill was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Social Affairs. If we can regret the time lost since 2015, I can only welcome this new consensus. I note with satisfaction that, when we defend a measure of common sense, perseverance ends up paying. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups, on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups and among non-attached MPs]] I count on you today to show common sense again, and to give the families of our country the sign that we are committed to a dynamic and proactive family policy, essential to the survival of our social system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u266	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u267	The birth bonus is essential: it helps parents with modest resources to receive their child in the best conditions and there will be no one on these benches to question the validity of this system, as it is obvious. In 2019, it was paid each month to nearly 45600 beneficiaries, for a total cost of 537 million euros. Since the revalorisation on 1 April 2020, the net amount of this premium is EUR 947. The challenge of this bill is to find the right time to pay it. For years, through the Social Security Financing Bills, parliamentarians have been calling for the payment of this premium to take place before the birth of the child. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the work of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement and Gilles Lurton, whose consistency in this matter has never been denied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u268	Thank you Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u269	I would also like to thank the Republic Group for having been able to reach an agreement with all the groups so that this text can be adopted today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u270	They need comfort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u271	In December 2014, it was decided to pay the premium before the end of the last day of the second calendar month following birth. This lag is disturbing, as the equipment intended to accommodate the child has, in general, already been purchased when the child is two months old. We must therefore strengthen the effectiveness of the birth premium by giving it to the parents before the child arrives. In practice, the most difficult families may be assisted by the granting of subsidies or advances which are part of the social action of the family allowance funds. They may also be accompanied in the preparation of the care of the unborn child. This bill invites us to change the package, advancing the payment of the premium, so that everything is ready upon the arrival of the child. Your proposal also finds a favourable response because of the current context, as an advance payment of the birth premium would contribute to the logic of economic recovery. I agree with this proposal and the payment of the premium in the eighth month of pregnancy would seem to me to be a measure of common sense. However, we will have to find a date of entry into force that does not threaten that of the reforms already adopted. That is the meaning of the Government's sub-amendment. Exchanges with the CNAF allow us to envisage an entry into force in the first quarter of 2021. The decision to advance the date of payment of the premium at birth is not a technical or cosmetic measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u272	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u273	It will allow parents, very concretely, to anticipate the birth as best they can. As we know, for many families, a birth can put a severe strain on finances. By advancing the date, we give these families room for manoeuvre and allow them to live in serenity this moment which must leave no room for doubt or uncertainty. [[Applause on all benches]] Before concluding, I welcome the eight years of parliamentary work carried out by the rapporteur, Mr Gilles Lurton, and particularly the work he has done in the field of social protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u274	It's elegant. It is considered that he is already elected mayor of Saint-Malo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u275	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u276	All the good things in the gallery!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u277	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT, Agir ens, FI and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Today we are considering a bill that I would like to emphasize is common sense. My colleague, Gilles Lurton, has always followed closely the issues relating to our family policies and I welcome his unwavering involvement in this matter. The purpose of this bill is to ensure the payment of the birth premium prior to the birth of the child, in order to meet its original objective of enabling parents to bear the first expenses associated with the event. Until 1 January 2015, she was paid, logically, in the seventh month of pregnancy. However, the socialist majority of the previous legislature decided to postpone the payment after the birth of the child. The current situation is aberrant, since the amount of this premium was not changed, but the cash flow logic had prevailed at the time. This change has made it difficult for many families, particularly the most fragile and precarious. The arrival of a child prepares and anticipates: the reception of a newborn child in a home is a wealth and each parent wants to prepare for it at best, morally as well as materially. Above all, this budget pass-through, which consisted of deferring expenditure by a few months, had no effect on public finances. I repeat: the change in the payment of the premium is unfounded, inconsistent and ubiquitous. In fact, this decision has devoid of its meaning of the measure which allowed families, especially the most modest ones, to receive a substantial sum before the arrival of the child. This logical decision has only reinforced the difficulties of families, who have often incurred significant expenses to accommodate the child. In addition, the health crisis associated with the covid-19 epidemic has had serious financial consequences for modest families, who will find it even more difficult to prepare for the arrival of the child. This is neither fair nor desirable. Worse, financial difficulties could discourage families from running a parenting project. Indeed, since 2015, there has been a worrying decline in the birth rate as a result of the drastic cuts in family policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u278	Yes! An anti-family policy has been in place for seven years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u279	Unfortunately, the demographic record of the last five years confirms my point. As we know, our social system is based on the renewal of generations. Amendments to restore this fair measure had been tabled during the consideration of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2020; The majority and the Government considered them unnecessary on the grounds that they did not in any way constitute an increase in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u280	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u281	However, it is more essential than ever to return to the system in force before 2015. This urgent and necessary change will in no way alter the objective of family policy or the aim pursued through the allocation of the birth premium. Beyond this obvious pragmatic measure, we must rethink, recast, reconsider a dynamic family policy and end the budget cuts that have affected the country's birth rate for several years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u282	It's indispensable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u283	All indicators are alarming: a fall in the birth rate since 2015, a collapse of parental leave... The modulation of family allowances and the reduction of the family quotient have only been used to reduce the number of births.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u284	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u285	A measure as simple as the pre-birth premium would be an effective and constructive step forward and a step towards a proactive family policy essential to the survival of our social system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u287	It is not a question of changing the amount of the premium, simply to allow families to prepare more calmly the arrival of their newborn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u288	It's a matter of common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u289	Supporting such a simple measure would be a demonstration of wisdom on the part of the Government, and a first step towards family policy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. Nathalie Elimas and Nicole Dubré-Chirat also applaud]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the bill by our colleague Gilles Lurton.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u290	Mrs Nathalie Elimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u291	I welcome the initiative of our colleagues in the Republicans Group, and thank Gilles Lurton in particular, through whom we are looking at this text. This measure is of particular importance to the MODEM Group, which has been promoting it consistently for the past three years, a bill to finance social security after a bill to finance social security, and defending, beyond that, the ambition of strengthening family policy. Indeed, the latter has gradually moved away from its original objective, which was to address all families, whatever they may be, and to accompany these families with plural faces and various socio-economic characteristics in their desire to receive a child. Several mistakes have been made in recent years. The first was to confuse family policy with social policy. While the need for support for the most modest families is undeniable, it cannot be the sole focus of family policy. The second mistake was two successive blows, which have severely penalized families, especially middle-class families who are suffering a double penalty. On the one hand, the punctures given to the family quotient had an unattended result, i.e. an increase of 790 euros per year on average of the taxes. On the other hand, the blow to universality, a historical and founding principle of family policy, means that middle-class families, who pay taxes and contributions, abound in a public policy that serves them less and less. The result of these decisions has been a declining birth since 2014-15, a date that corresponds to the blows to the family quotient and universality. The birth is an essential issue for our country, because it is the condition for financing our model of social protection and dependency, at a time when we have just created a fifth branch of social security. Finally, I wish to dwell on the unexpected crisis of unprecedented violence that the country has just passed through and at which the families have been put to the test. Two observations can already be made. The first is that the family has appeared, or rather reappeared, for what it really is, namely a refuge value: the pillar of solidarity, the cradle of social cohesion, is the family. The second is that, while families have shown great strength, the crisis has also highlighted the persistent inequalities and frailties of the system. The Government has provided urgent responses. Today we plead for a plan for the family – what I call, pardon for anglicism, a French Family Act – like what our German or Italian neighbours do, who have not hesitated to invest nearly 22 billion euros in their family policy. They measured the scale of the shift needed to make it a real economic tool for recovery, where the status quo would only add crisis to the crisis. In a few days, the fact-finding mission on the adaptation of French family policy to the challenges of 21st century society, which I have the honour to be the rapporteur and whose president, Stéphane Viry, I salute, will make its conclusions for a modern, fair and more effective family policy. Among these is the measure of common sense and social justice contained in the text that brings us together today. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of MODEM, LR, IDU and LT groups]] Welcoming a child is a thousand joys, but it is also a thousand expenses. The advance payment of the birth premium, which amounts to almost 1000 euros, will be very useful to the most modest families. As the Secretary of State pointed out, this is not a cosmetic measure; This is a symbolic first step towards a family policy that meets the challenges of tomorrow. We support this measure, and we call it our wish. I therefore call on you to adopt unanimously the bill defended with talent by our colleague Gilles Lurton.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u292	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u293	The birth or adoption bonus is the social support for families who take a child into their homes. It testifies to the importance attached to each human being and allows, in a way, to prepare the nest. As such, it must be paid prior to the child's arrival. There is no need to argue for a long time to convince oneself of this: it is before the arrival of the child that the costs of organizing the environment must be incurred, because it is necessary to be ready on D-day. And this is only the beginning, because it takes resources to accompany a growing child! This is the very meaning of family allowances. Why pay the bonus – or rather the benefit, because it is not a reward – after the arrival of the child? It's unjustifiable. This is one of those budgetary tricks that Bercy has the secret; the appearances are saved, but, in concrete terms, it is not without consequence. It is essential to restore families and children to the full extent of their rights by providing them with the benefit at the time they need it; Failing this, the effort, for a meagre accounting profit, is put on the cash flow of the families. However, many of them cannot afford to do so. The service must therefore fulfil its function, in particular by helping popular families to understand this change in the best conditions and to go through this happy stage of their lives without further concern. Knowing the sequineries of which Bercy is customary, it does not seem to me unnecessary to honor not only the letter, but also the spirit of the initial measure, by stating in the law that the benefit must be paid two months before the intended arrival of the child. By the way, the example is symptomatic of a long-term illness of public action, of the pingrerie of a state that has sea urchins in its pockets, even for newborns, and that shows a formidable creativity – which would be much better used elsewhere – to plan, the air of nothing, the established rights and the political choices made here. The postponement of the payment of the birth grant is justified by purely accounting considerations, which are disconnected from the basic needs of families. We have been told that there is a need to balance costs, but I do not understand the meaning of this objection. What is there to balance, if not the situation of families in this moment of happiness, but also, sometimes, of fragility? It is not every day that the House makes good decisions, and I should not squander this moment, but it must be said, even if it is a bit stingy. I therefore confess that I regret that we have to go through a bill, while amendments to that effect, including by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, have been swept away three times by staggering arguments. However, this does not detract from the merit of Gilles Lurton for his tenacity in defending this requirement. This decision is expected. Since the decree made – do we have to remind him? – by Manuel Valls, on 30 December 2014, the family associations and the board of directors of the National Fund of Family Allowances insist on returning to normal so that families can meet their capital costs. To overcome this difficulty, the family allowance funds – CAF – make loans, financed by their social assistance funds, but still need families in difficulty to show up or have been identified upstream. Moreover, this derogation obliges families to seek their rights, and many of them, starting with the most vulnerable, do not avail themselves of it because of the efforts requested. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on several benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] The topic would require a broader reflection on the public service for early childhood. However, the first child-care purchases are about equipment that is often very expensive – strollers, furniture, car seats – which makes it difficult for some modest families. It is all the more urgent to return to the previous arrangements as we are currently going through a period of acute crisis. We will therefore vote without hesitation in favour of the bill re-establishing in its full function this provision intended for the reception of the child – does not dislike Bercy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u294	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u295	This is a fair, common-sense measure, as it should be more often in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u296	It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u297	Thank you, dear Gilles Lurton, for proposing it. The decision taken in 2014 by the Dutch government...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u298	No, Valls!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u299	...was mean. Why? Because, in order to earn a few million euros over a single year, he had decided to postpone the payment of the premium after the birth of the child. If having a child, for a couple, is a wonderful event, it is also an event that generates anxiety and requires a lot of preparation. As the rapporteur quite rightly pointed out, we must think of all the purchases necessary for the arrival of the child in the family cocoon; We simply have to anticipate it. However, for some parents, this effort becomes a sacrifice, because the financial means are not there. Some even go so far as to get into debt. France's family policy is part of our honour. We must be proud of that. However, since 2015, it has deteriorated – everyone can see it. We need to encourage it further and this bill is a step in that direction. We need to send strong signals in favour of a more dynamic family policy, as it was a few years ago. But how can we help families if not by giving help when they have to equip themselves? It is common sense that governs this bill, which honours its author, our colleague Gilles Lurton. I want to thank him for that, because it will help many families. You will soon leave for Saint-Malo, dear colleague – at least that is what I wish you. I would like to tell you, on behalf of the IDU and independent Group, how proud and happy I am to give our full support to this text. I regret, however, and that is why our group has tabled an amendment: the principle of the payment of the birth premium in the seventh month of pregnancy should be included in the law. The Commission had not accepted this provision. We are many to propose it again in open session by way of amendment. I hope that the majority of our colleagues will follow us. The role of Parliament is to include such an important provision in the law. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LR groups.– Bertrand Bouyx also applauds]] Once again, Mr. Lurton, thank you and congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u300	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u301	Thought more than sixty years ago, our family policy, which is partly inherited from the programme of the National Council of Resistance, has been the subject of political consensus for decades. This consensus has helped to support a policy of voluntary birth and to make the family the first cell around which our whole society is organized. Yet today's family doesn't have much to do with yesterday's family. Therefore, the devices that have been in operation for all these years can no longer be applied mechanically, with the hope of achieving the same results. Family policy needs to be thoroughly rethought. It is now up to the families, in all their diversity, to address them. Yes, society has changed: there is an increasing number of recomposed and single-parent families. Permission to marry for homosexuals, as well as the opening of medically assisted procreation to women alone or in marriage with another woman, should help to accelerate changes in family structures. It is therefore imperative to integrate these parameters into a true global reflection on our family policies. Beyond these considerations, it should be stressed that the question of demography cannot be limited to the question of birth. The migration issue, which will necessarily become increasingly important, will, in the coming decades, be a key factor in France's demographic developments. Finally, to think of families today is not limited to tax considerations, although it is, of course, important to accompany the most modest parents in the care of a child. In this spirit, the Libertés et territoires group can only share and support the philosophy of the group Les Républicains and our colleague Gilles Lurton, who initiated this bill. Support for families is made all the more necessary as the health crisis has severely, albeit unevenly, affected them. The epidemic of covid-19 and, perhaps even more violently, confinement have had a significant impact on family life, which, unfortunately, may continue. Despite the automatic extension of fees and the advance payment of allowances, many families have been deprived of their resources. However, the social crisis that is taking place places a significant risk of slipping into precarious conditions on the part of a number of modest families. In this regard, it goes without saying that the Libertés et Territoires Group will support this bill, which proposes to pay the birth premium before the birth of the child. It is a common sense measure, which will make it possible to simplify the administrative procedures of families. Indeed, it is now common for CAFs to grant them a kind of micro-credit, between the seventh month of pregnancy and the second month after birth, before asking them to repay it when the premium is collected. A pre-natal payment can facilitate the preparation of the arrival of the child, especially for the most modest families, especially since the measure envisaged has no significant budgetary impact: as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, its cost would indeed be some EUR 200 million for the first year of the reform. However, if our group is about to vote enthusiastically for this bill, it should be stressed that it does not provide a comprehensive response to the situation of fragile and precarious families and to the difficulties that this crisis brings to children. We therefore expect the Government to propose sustainable measures in this regard. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would also like to thank my colleague Gilles Lurton for his many common sense commitments in this House, whether in the field of the family, to which this text relates, or in favour of the combatant's map. Thank you and good wind in Saint-Malo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u302	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u303	An election is never won in advance...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u304	Our rapporteur is very reserved, as usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u305	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u306	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I do not know if this is happening, but I am still doing it: I could not, Mr rapporteur, start my remarks without thanking you. While I was a new Member of Parliament, in June 2017, we met. You didn't judge my outfits, my level of education, my profession, or my political label – we weren't on the same edge. You have been able, as a seasoned Member of Parliament, to give me advice, to answer my concerns or my questions. Mr rapporteur, you are honouring the name of your political group: you are a true republican.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u307	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u308	[[Applause on all benches]] ...and if the Malouins decide to move away from the House, know that you will not miss only the benches of your group, but also many other benches of the House. Thank you for putting this bill on the Orders of the Day. The arrival of a child is in fact always a upheaval; and for this upheaval to be welcomed with happiness and serenity, it is good that the minimum material conditions are met. How to be serene, when you don't have enough to prepare the room for the future child, buy diapers, a changing table, a cradle, a car seat, a bottle warmer or clothes, because the birth bonus didn't arrive in time? How can we be serene when using the D system to meet the basic needs of our infants? How can you be serene when you have to be in debt to welcome your child into the home? It seems quite absurd to pay this premium after birth rather than before. The arrival of a child is coming! Recently, the birth grant was paid in the seventh month of pregnancy. It was under Holland and Valls that, by a decree of December 2014, his payment was deferred to the child's two months. Families, associations and the National Family Benefit Fund protested, to no avail. For simple cash flow issues, senior officials and senior managers have managed to have such an aberrant idea: to postpone the 210 to 250 million euros paid by the family branch, yet surplus! It is ultimately the cash flow of modest families that is severely affected. This deferral is a wonderful illustration of the disconnection of our elites with the population. Minister Véran had pointed out last year that there was a free loan scheme, guaranteed by the family allowance funds. Again, his remarks reflected a lack of knowledge of what some families are experiencing on a daily basis. Do you know what it means to go to the CAF for a loan? Sometimes you have to take a day off to make your request – not everyone knows the internet. Moreover, this right to a loan is not known to all, and there are families, of which I have been a member, who earn 5 or 6 euros too much to be able to benefit from it. This deferral was therefore a gross error. As the Latin proverb says: "The error is human, but persisting in error by arrogance is evil. As it was unanimously adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs, I am confident that this bill will also be adopted in the sitting. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and MODEM groups]] However, I would like to take this opportunity to alert all parliamentarians and the Government to the amendments to fix the date of payment of the premium, which cannot be covered by a decree, in the seventh month of pregnancy – a simple date. You stated that the measure could be applied from the first quarter of 2021; I therefore invite you, Madam Secretary of State, to amend the Government's sub-amendment to clarify that the premium will be paid in the seventh month, which is important because it is that of nesting. No one shall be able, by decree, to commit such aberration again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u309	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u310	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work you have done, dear Gilles Lurton, to introduce this bill and, like Caroline Fiat, to pay tribute to you. We spent a few hours together in the beautiful city of Saint-Malo, where you are about to accompany your fellow citizens towards a serene future – we will know it in a few days. I was able to appreciate your humanity, when we were able to work together in the psychiatric hospital, as part of my mission of information on the territorial organization of mental health. Thanks again for inviting me. Whereas it was previously foreseen that families, who could benefit from this resource-tested premium, would receive it prior to birth, it was then decided, for reasons of pure cash flow, to postpone the date of its payment. A child's arrival has a cost that can often be a burden on the household and cause many concerns and anxiety. In fact, the expenses associated with a birth, which are indispensable, are numerous and heavy. Some parents may even have to change homes or vehicles in order to adapt, at best, to the expansion of the home. This can force the most insecure households to become in debt, or even to give up the desire of the child, a renunciation that results in a form of shame and guilt. I am deeply convinced that the payment of the birth premium in the seventh month of pregnancy will make it possible to remedy, at least in part, these many difficulties, and to prepare a little more serenely for the arrival of the child. Since a decree of 30 December 2014, which covers all registered pregnancies from 1 January 2015, the birth premium is collected by households two months after the birth of the child. It's too long. Advances in the payment of the premium are undoubtedly a measure of common sense. It seems to me important to recall that the amendment of the decree did not result in any budgetary savings for social security, dear to all parliamentarians, because neither the award criteria nor the amount of the premium have been changed. The late payment of the premium has serious consequences for some families, who are obliged to subscribe micro-credits to family allowance funds in certain departments. From a financial point of view, advancing the payment of the premium at birth will have only tiny consequences; However, for the most vulnerable families, it will be a valuable help. For most women and their partners, pregnancy is synonymous with changes, upheavals and a new conception of the future. We must accompany families as best they can so that they can anticipate expenses, project themselves into their new lives and prepare, at best, for the arrival of this child. I am deeply convinced that the bonus will also contribute to the mental well-being of parents, by playing an important role, especially in the weeks following delivery. Indeed, I remind you that after the birth of a newborn, many women find themselves in a fragile psychological state: post-partum depressions and baby-blues should not be neglected. Welcoming a child is a precious moment: let us honor ourselves to give families the appropriate means to address this new chapter of their lives. It is in order to support the most modest families, who have been destabilized by the health crisis, that we, members of the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group, will support this bill. Let us not forget that the crisis of the covid-19, which we are still facing, carries with it dramatic and lasting economic consequences for families who were in a difficult situation and are waiting for a child today. In this regard, it is worth commending the individual aid granted by certain CAFs to alleviate the emergency situations encountered by families. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We welcome this bill, which I think will be adopted in a trans-party manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u311	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u312	The single article of this bill seeks to clarify the social security code and to require that the birth premium be paid before the birth of the child. It is thus intended to re-establish a provision that had been in force until 2015; It was the previous majority who decided, by decree, to shift the payment of the premium after the birth of the child. As you know, the provision we are examining today was unanimously requested by the family associations in connection with the work of the parliamentary fact-finding mission on family policy. The Group of the European People's Party is in favour of this social measure, which would support households, especially the most modest ones, in preparing for the arrival of the child. Indeed, it is not always easy to rely only on its financial resources to calmly anticipate the significant costs of a birth. In addition, it seems illogical to risk putting families in difficulty while assistance will be provided a few weeks after the child's birth. Since the aim of this aid is to avoid precarisation and indebtedness of families, it seems more appropriate to pay it before the major purchases related to the preparation of the birth, rather than after. This would help to calmly prevent induced changes. For aid to be meaningful and for real social effects to be felt, the timing of the payment of the premium is crucial: it must be the time when the expenditure is incurred, not the time when the debts are paid. Admittedly, as mentioned in the report, some families already have the possibility of receiving, before the birth of their child, a loan from their family allowance fund. However, misinformation, administrative constraints and feelings of guilt can keep families away from the loan, making them considerably vulnerable. Together with our colleagues Gilles Lurton, from the group Les Républicains, and Nathalie Elimas, a member of MODEM, I had the opportunity to defend the advance payment of the birth premium during the examination of the bill to finance social security for 2020, through the tabling of an amendment to ensure that the premium would be paid no later than one month before birth. Since other social benefits, such as the return to school allowance, are paid in advance of the event, it seems unjustified that the birth premium, which causes considerable disruption in a family, should not be paid as soon as possible, so that the effects of the birth are taken care of as soon as possible. Moreover, the purchasing power of the poorest families has already suffered from the economic consequences of the health crisis. Any measures aimed at bringing serenity to families are therefore welcome. However, we support the fixing by decree of the amount of the premium. Indeed, it is necessary to have a sufficient step back to balance the budgetary cost with the need for families. I believe that an impact assessment should be carried out to assess the cost and effectiveness of the premium. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT, EDS and on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We therefore welcome this humanistic measure by MP Gilles Lurton, which will radically change the daily lives of families that will now receive a child. The Action Together Group will support the bill. I take this opportunity, dear Gilles, to pay tribute to your constant commitment to family policy in our Assembly: today it finds a happy conclusion, and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u313	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u314	Is the related Socialist group going to eat his hat?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u315	Mr rapporteur, thank you for allowing us to debate this subject today. The health crisis requires, more than ever, more solidarity and, it is true, a little less budgetary rigour which sometimes contributes to the erosion of the architecture of our social rights. It is a requirement: when such an ambition transcends divisions, we must support it and translate it into concrete progress. This is the whole purpose of our colleagues' bill, The Republicans, which aims to ensure that the birth premium is paid before the child is born. Above all, this text makes it possible to find a form of logic and justice, by putting the well-being of the child before any budgetary consideration. Indeed, it is well before the birth of the child that the parents prepare for his arrival, which raises important material needs for the families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u316	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u317	It therefore seems illogical that the premium should be paid afterwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u318	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u319	However, this text goes further: it states in the marble of the law not only that the bonus is awarded to the parents, but also that it is granted before the birth of the child. The bill therefore provides an essential guarantee. If, to date, the most modest families already have the possibility to benefit from an advance from the CIF, recourse to this scheme is discriminatory for the most fragile, who may feel stigmatized to be forced to apply for this advance; So often they don't. I regret that the amendment defended in committee by the author and rapporteur of the bill, which was intended to include in the law that the premium was to be paid two months before the child was born, was rejected. With regard to the deadline for payment, it will therefore always be necessary to rely on the decree, which can be amended at any time by the Government, without Parliament having a say – and that was what had happened. The text presents an important step forward for families and the comfort of the newborn. While economic forecasts are hardly optimistic for our country, which, according to economists, could be among the most affected by the recession, the bill will primarily benefit the most fragile. It carries within it the seeds of solidarity and, in a context of crisis, it will more than ever preserve the purchasing power of households and families to prepare, in all who study, the arrival of a new member within them. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and FI groups, as well as on several benches of the MODEM group]] Every family, every newborn, must have minimal material comfort so that the child's good development can be ensured from the start in life. We know all the benefits and benefits that our country derives from a high birth rate, made possible by its family policy. It is precisely because the bill advocated by our colleague Gilles Lurton is making progress in this area that the Socialist and related group will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u320	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u321	The purpose of the bill we are considering today is to advance the date of payment of the birth premium to be made before the child's arrival, and not, as is the case today, two months later. In the amount of EUR 950 per child, this assistance is provided on a means-tested basis, in order to prepare for the arrival of an unborn child or for the reception of a child at the time of adoption. The advancement of pre-birth premium payments is a common sense measure, as everyone knows the needs of parents upon the arrival of a new child. Some families, who faced financial difficulties, sometimes had to get into debt in order to make the purchases necessary for the arrival of the newborn. This is therefore a measure favourable to the purchasing power of families, which the working Republic group supports. That is why we have adopted the text in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u322	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u323	However, we had expressed reservations about the date of payment of the aid. Indeed, it has a significant impact on the social security accounts, of which we are all here the guarantors. In the context of the health crisis, the expenditure incurred is significant and leads us to aggravate the debt to deal with it; If we do, we must not forget that we bequeath debt to our children. There is no magic money, and national representation must not give this impression to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u324	It is a question of shifting the payment of existing aid, not of granting additional aid!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u325	That is why we wanted the payment date to balance the objective of aid before birth with that of the proper management of the social security budget. The amendments tabled in particular by the rapporteur Gilles Lurton and our colleague Nathalie Elimas fully meet this requirement. We are satisfied with the proposed wording and welcome the fact that the reflection could be conducted collectively and in a constructive and responsible manner. On the other hand, our colleague Nathalie Elimas draws our attention to the particular case of families bereaved by the loss of the expected child. We must not add to the pain of families the administrative brutality that could constitute the claim or the challenge of the premium paid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u326	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u327	We will therefore support our colleague's proposal to maintain this right, including in the event of the death of the child, whether it takes place before or after birth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u328	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u329	Finally, the Government draws our attention to the date of entry into force of the law, which must necessarily take into account the technical constraints faced by the national family allowance fund. With the success of such a measure based, inter alia, on its proper implementation, we will support the Government's amendment on the date of entry into force of the Act. The Government thus demonstrated its proactive commitment to the subject. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and several benches of the MODEM group]] The La République group will therefore support the effective and responsible introduction of this measure in favour of the purchasing power of families.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u330	The general discussion is closed. Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting. [[Applause on all benches]] Before we adjourn, I too would like to welcome your commitment to family policy: thank you very much, Gilles Lurton!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-25-O1248.u331	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the proposed law to ensure the payment of the birth premium before the birth of the child; Discussion of the proposed legislation for an emergency ethic. The meeting is adjourned.
