ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u1	The next item is the re-reading of the draft law, as amended by the National Assembly, containing various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law (No 3469, 3521).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u2	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u3	So here we are again in order to consider the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law, more commonly referred to as DDADE. Debate at first reading in the Senate on 8 July, and then in the Assembly on 9 October, this text retains the same objective: that we remain exemplary in the application of the provisions of European law. It is all the more necessary to set an example as France will preside over the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2022. This DDADU thus contains provisions transposing or enabling the Government to transpose European texts, some of which go back three years, into ordinances. Its rapid adoption is now essential; The health crisis that delayed it in the spring reinforces this sense of urgency. Some transpositions cannot take longer: I think in particular of the "audiovisual media services" directives, known as "SMA". The text you adopted on 9 October now contains 42 articles, nine of which are in conformity; an article has been deleted. A broad consensus was reached at the Joint Joint Committee on 22 October, which failed, however, in the absence of agreement on Article 4a alone. This failure of the CMP obliges you to look at the text that you adopted at first reading on 9 October. You then kept a number of contributions from the Senate. The CMP highlighted the convergences between the two chambers: I am thinking in particular of the three new articles on veterinarians, including a mechanism to combat veterinary desertification, following the model of the fight against medical deserts. This coordination of chambers allows the French to benefit from effective, operational and decentralized arrangements within their territory; It also testifies to the good direction taken by this text. The provisions of the ADM directives also reveal very high quality work. Very much expected by the authors, artists, media professionals and cultural industries of our country, the transposition of these guidelines aims in particular to make contribute to the financing of French works the channels of foreign platforms. It is our duty to support our artistic creation, heavily affected by the crisis, and to ensure fairness among all the actors who broadcast audiovisual and cinematographic works in France. I also welcome the work of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Julien Denormandie,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u5	... and its involvement in this text, in particular the provisions relating to the appropriations from the EAFRD, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. Strongly used, these funds require more efficient management, which is why the Government asked you to re-establish the arrangements for organizing, under the multi-year financial framework 2021-2027, the division of powers between the regions and the State. On this point too, the CMP highlighted the possibility of convergence. However, no agreement could be reached on article 4 bis of the bill. Introduced by the Senate, which included the bill to guarantee the consumer's free choice in cyberspace, it had been deleted by the National Assembly. That deletion was doubly motivated. On the one hand, not consisting of transposing or applying provisions of European law, this article did not relate to the purpose of the text, in other words, it was a legislative horseman. On the other hand, important initiatives have been taken at European level to strengthen digital regulation, in line with the proposals put forward by the French authorities for more than two years: national measures in this area would have had less effectiveness and limited room for manoeuvre, while at the same time risking interfering with this priority European objective. That is why it was preferable at this stage to give up the introduction of such provisions in our legislation alone. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This is the overview of the main issues at stake in this new reading of the DDADUE bill, in line with the actions of the majority since 2017. The text you adopted is balanced and retains its objective: the harmonisation of our national law with the law of the European Union. The Government therefore asks you to adopt it as presented to you, supplemented by the few editorial or coordination amendments emanating from your committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u6	Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u7	We are again about to consider the bill "DDADUE", which has been before us for several months, with postponements due to the health crisis. The European legislative activity has been particularly dynamic in economic and financial matters, hence the need for transposition in a wide variety of fields: if the Committee on Economic Affairs has been referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we have asked the Committee on Finance for its opinion...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u8	Excellent commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u9	...and that of cultural affairs, which I thank for their work. In substance, the text contains heterogeneous technical measures, with major advances. Through these provisions, we will, among other things, improve consumer protection and adapt consumer law in the digital age. We are strengthening the powers of the DGCCRF, the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention, to better combat online fraud. We improve the fight against unfair business practices and empower online sales platforms. We are consolidating the single market in animal genetics and health, veterinary medicinal products. We make competition law more efficient and faster; we are modernising the law of electronic communications, through the transposition of the European Telecom Code and the new definition of universal service. As rapporteur, my philosophy with regard to this text has been to transpose without overtransposing, since we are all too familiar with the risks of overtransposition: legal uncertainty and distortions of competition vis-à-vis our European partners. Parliament, for its part, has done an important job. At first reading, the National Assembly adopted eighty-three amendments in committee and twenty-two in open session. Beyond drafting and legal clarifications, they also dealt with the substance. I am thinking in particular of the satisfactory compromise on the issue of the simplified procedure before the Autorité de la concurrence, ensuring a fair balance between the necessary speed of the procedure and the guarantee of the rights of the defence, but also of the strengthening of the powers of DGCCRF to better combat online fraud. We had also strengthened and clarified the operational scope of the provisions on universal service, and provided further details on agricultural matters. The Assembly had also retained a number of contributions from the Senate, which we welcome. I am thinking of the provisions concerning veterinarians: authorisation of the advertising of vaccines for professional breeders, supervision of the acts carried out by veterinary students studying abroad but trainees in France, and above all an innovative mechanism to combat veterinary desertification, inspired by the fight against medical deserts. We had also retained the provisions that clarified the scope of certain orders and provided for deadlines for transposition that were more in line with our European commitments. On the other hand, we had reintroduced provisions concerning the EAFRD: I will leave it to my colleague Michel Lauzzana,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u10	An excellent colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u11	...which I thank again for his work. Conversely, we had deleted Article 4 bis, which incorporated the provisions of the Senate bill to guarantee the consumer's free choice in cyberspace. This article is precisely at the origin of the CMP's failure on 22 October. On the form, our opposition to the reintroduction of this article was constitutional in nature: we considered it to be a legislative horseman. However, our disagreement was mainly on the merits. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Of course, we support the objectives of this article: consumer protection and freedom of choice in cyberspace, terminal neutrality, platform interoperability, merger control. Daniel Fasquelle, whom I greet, and I myself have devoted an information report to the regulation of digital giants. Our deep disagreement with senators was about the method: they wanted a French-French text, while discussions are under way at the European level. We absolutely do not want to marginalize French digital ecosystems. However, by adopting this article, we would have been down to the strategy for a single digital market that we have been trying to implement for the past five years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u12	Mrs Aurore Bergé, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u13	For almost a year now, the unprecedented global crisis that we are experiencing has had terrible effects on the world of culture. Yet authors, artists, creators help us to overcome it every day. Our responsibility is to be with them in the urgency of this crisis, in order to save cultural employment, creation, but also in the long term. We know that the crisis in the cultural sector will be long. Our country must be at the forefront to support cultural diversity and sovereignty. The second wave of the epidemic has had serious consequences, especially on the cinema, with the closure of the theaters and the sharp slowdown of the shootings, when they are not stopped. On the other hand, the large online platforms, which have grown considerably during the first confinement, are expected to continue their progress. And what about the piracy of works, a real looting that continues, which even went up again on the occasion of this first confinement? Making the platforms contribute to French creation was a necessity; It's an emergency today. What we do by enabling the transposition of these European directives will transform the audiovisual and cinematographic landscape in a sustainable way. France, the first country to transpose them, also clearly shows the direction to be followed by the other Member States of the European Union, which is welcome. That is why it was particularly important to put this text on the agenda and to consider it today in a new reading, with a view to its final adoption on 18 November. I will briefly comment on its content, in particular on our additions at first reading. Article 24a transposes the Copyright Directive, which in turn largely incorporates the French provisions on copyright and extends them to the whole of the European Union. In particular, it puts an end to the irresponsibility regime for platforms. The first reading in the House made it possible to provide much needed clarification, both as regards the provisions of the directive which will be transposed and how they will be transposed. The text now states that sites whose main purpose is to infringe copyright and neighbouring rights, i.e. pirated sites, will not be eligible for exemption from liability. Another amendment recalled the principle of contractual freedom in relations between rights holders and platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u14	In addition to these provisions, the public discussion provided guarantees to authors and performers as a result of the Government's interventions and commitments. Performers must therefore receive additional remuneration where their initial remuneration is excessively low, in compliance with the commitments made as to the proportionate nature of the remuneration. The Government has also undertaken to respect the principle of proportionality in the transposition of the Directive. As a result of an amendment tabled in a public sitting after the passage into committee, we introduced at first reading a new article, Rule 24b(A). This is essential in order to help the world of creation after the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on "irrepartisable juridiques". In that decision, which defies the principle of reciprocity, the Court held that the sums derived from the distribution of works by performers residing outside the European Union, particularly the United States, should be returned to those artists, even though European performers would not benefit from the dissemination of their works in the United States. These sums, which were previously justified and used in the form of creation aid, amount to almost EUR 30 million per year. If we can deplore the consequences of this decision, we must above all act to limit its effects. We have done so for the past, by validating the aid thanks to the new article mentioned above; We will also need to secure the future. Today we are reviewing article 24 ter, which makes it possible to make contribute to the financing of French works foreign channels and platforms targeting France. This is a considerable step forward. In particular, we have made it possible to secure two separate corridors of contribution, on the one hand for the audiovisual sector and on the other for the cinema. We validated the association of authors to professional agreements and the accessibility of programs to persons with disabilities. The question of "world rights" has also been the subject of explicit words: for cinema, only the rights acquired in respect of the exploitation of the work in France will be taken into account for the calculation of the contribution, not the rights for the whole world. This is an essential point for the financing of creation. With regard to the contribution to independent production, the Government has committed itself, in the draft decree, not to integrate the investments of the platforms in shares of co-production, I welcome this commitment, which constitutes an essential guarantee for the balance of relations between producers and the major platforms. Finally, we have adopted amendments aimed in particular at strengthening the scope of media chronology clearance. We thus empower the state to move the platforms forward in this timeline, in return for the new obligations imposed on them that will ensure that our principles are respected. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Like the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, which unanimously adopted this text, I propose that you adopt it in conformity, because we have greatly enriched it. Above all, we have a duty to act urgently for the cultural sector, which is largely and sustainably affected by the crisis. We know that we will have to go further and faster, to renew our regulation and fight with more means and efficiency against piracy, but we can already send a clear signal to the entire cultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u15	Mr Michel Lauzzana, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u16	This week we find ourselves with an unmistakable enthusiasm to examine the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law. At first reading, fifteen articles had been delegated to the Finance Committee. On further reading, it considered only twelve of them, since the National Assembly had adopted Articles 8 and 16a, and Article 23 had been definitively deleted. We returned from the text voted in open session on 7 October last. The articles that remained under discussion were therefore in the same form as we had adopted. The Commission has therefore made only a few marginal changes: a coordination measure in Article 16 and drafting clarifications in Article 24. This article, which had been discussed at first reading, empowers the Government to amend by order the distribution of the EAFRD's management powers between the State and the regions. At first reading, the Senate had deleted this provision, which we then reinstated in the Senate. Things have changed in the right direction, as the regions of France have reaffirmed their agreement in principle with the new division of powers proposed by the Government. Furthermore, it appears from the exchanges on the margins of the Joint Joint Committee that the matter is no longer being discussed; Only two drafting amendments were adopted in committee for this new reading. [[Smile]] With regard to article 16, adopted in accordance with the first reading, it was reopened for coordination, so that its drafting would be adapted to the recent amendments to the Commercial Code by the bill on the acceleration and simplification of public action, known as ASAP. The latter, which was finally adopted on 28 October, also led to an amendment by the committee – a committee led by its serene President Roland Lescure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I will conclude my remarks, ladies and gentlemen, by repeating what I said at first reading: the provisions of this bill, although very technical, have real political and symbolic importance. As France prepares to assume the presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2022, it cannot fail to fulfil its European obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u17	In the general debate, Mrs Constance Le Grip spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u18	We are called upon to debate again, with joy and enthusiasm, the DDADE bill. Indeed, the Joint Joint Committee that met in the Senate on 22 October, in which I had the pleasure and the honour to participate, did not reach an agreement. The Republican Group deeply regrets this. We need to put the work back on the job, which is why we are delaying the moment to achieve the main objective of the text: the transposition of European directives which we believe are important and even essential in the cultural and audiovisual sectors. The discussions between Members of Parliament and Senators in the CMP have taken place not on Articles 24a and 24b, on which Mrs Bergé, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, has just spoken at length, but on Article 4a, introduced by our fellow senators on the basis of the bill to guarantee the free choice of consumers in cyberspace, tabled by Mrs Sophie Primas, chairman of the Senate Committee on Economic Affairs, and many of her colleagues. You reiterated this afternoon, the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, as you did in the CMP, your agreement with the objective and spirit of the provisions which partly reflect our honourable senator's excellent bill. That's the method you disapprove of. You believe that the introduction by the French Parliament of legislative provisions into its national law would be a step backwards, if not weakening, of certain positions that our country would have to take in negotiations at European level, particularly in the context of the preparation of what is known as the Digital Services Act. Frankly, let me be astonished at the use of this kind of argument. First, we have the right to hope that our country will lead the way and be a pioneer, as it has already been. This happened again recently when Bruno Le Maire, Minister of Economy and Finance, had the so-called GAFA tax voted by the National Assembly and the Senate, when there was absolutely no agreement, either at European level or at OECD level, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. With regard to the regulation of the digital world, it is also a question of possibly introducing, in the context of the discussion of the future draft law on the fight against separatism, some of the provisions, undoubtedly rewritten, of the bill, known as Avia, aimed at combating hatred on the Internet, without waiting for the finalisation of the negotiations, necessarily very long and laborious, which will lead the European bodies on the various elements of European legislation brought together under the term Digital Services Act. We object to this argument to the effect that the French Parliament could not, in all sovereignty, consider certain objectives or arrangements to be relevant. I will probably have the opportunity to go back to that with the defence of an amendment. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the substance, as it had done at first reading, the Republicans Group will again vote in favour of this so-called DDADE bill, which it wishes to vote in accordance with. It is only time to enter the transposition phase of the relevant European directives and regulations, first and foremost the three European directives "audiovisual media services", "copyright and related rights" and "cable and satellite". In my capacity as Vice-President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, it is these texts that interest me and concern me in particular. They are very much expected by the world of culture and the audiovisual sector; We are therefore very keen that the transposition work can be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u19	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u20	Like my colleague Marguerite Deprez-Audebert in committee, I shall begin by expressing my regret at the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, which has forced us to have a debate which we have already had, when the first reading, which had taken place quickly and without difficulty in both of our assemblies, enabled us to find consensus and points of agreement on particularly broad and technical subjects. This regret is all the greater because the CMP's failure is not the result of a substantive disagreement over the many measures in the text, but only a disagreement on a point of form that was not even included in the original text. The stumbling block between the two chambers is indeed the regulation of digital platforms, initially proposed in the framework of a bill of the Senate, tabled by the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Ms Sophie Primas. This proposal for a law provides, among other things, for the supervision of internet platforms through the neutrality of terminals, the interoperability of platforms or the fight against so-called predatory acquisitions. [[Michel Larive applauds]] This major and very topical subject has not been the subject of discussions between our two assemblies, while it has been given days reserved for the Senate. On behalf of the MoDem Democratic Movement and related democrats, I do not want us to deprive the House of a debate on these issues. Each of the political groups has its own ideas on digital giants and has proposals to make on all the topics related to these issues. Days dedicated to the regulation of digital platforms should therefore be organised in the Chamber so that we can have lengthy and in-depth discussions. Beyond the substance, the CMP's failure raises a question of form. It is regrettable to stop this way after so much work done by our two assemblies, for many months now, when we are in a tense health and economic situation, to which we must reserve the parliamentary agenda. The course of the bill will have been particularly sinuous. It will have been supplemented by several letters of amendment since it was tabled in the Senate office in February, as well as by the provisions of the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, the further examination of which was suspended last March due to the health crisis, until the disagreement in the CMP two weeks ago. However, I would like to commend the quality of the parliamentary work on this text, in which the Assembly continued the work of the Senate by keeping a large number of contributions due to senators. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs of our House, who have managed to find compromises on a wide range of technical issues. Our role is to find a way to reconcile respect for our European obligations with the good of our citizens. Indeed, the technicality of the subjects must not make us forget the importance of the stakes. The provisions of this bill correspond to essential European projects, such as banking union or capital market union. In the economic field, let us recall the important developments proposed by the text in order to increase the protection of consumers and economic actors. We must welcome these advances which promote the deepening of the single European market. We also note transparency in business relations, which is particularly important in the agricultural and food chain. The provisions aimed at restoring the loyalty of transactions when trade relations are too unbalanced are also a concrete step forward for our small and medium-sized enterprises in the food and agricultural sector. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, despite the multiplicity and technicality of the provisions of this draft law, one and the same spirit enlivens it, that of a more protective European Union, closer to the citizens, defending a comprehensive and ambitious project to deepen coordination between the Member States. This protective framework is all the more important given that we are going through a particularly severe economic crisis in recent months, and that all measures to strengthen European solidarity must be welcomed. The draft law before us is embarking on a profound transformation of our legislation in the service of an essential objective: the strengthening of the French and European internal market. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the state of mind in which the MoDem Democratic Movement and related democrats are approaching this new reading of the so-called DDADUE bill, a reading which we hope will be as fast as possible, so as not to exacerbate the delay caused by the failure of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u21	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u22	This amendment to European Union law contains various provisions and concerns the transposition of fifteen directives and the adaptation of eleven European regulations. This may have deserved better than a sweeping text consisting of provisions that had nothing to do with each other: consumer protection, customs, financial systems, anti-money laundering, terrorist financing, EAFRD management, competition authority, copyright and neighbouring rights, veterinary medicine, etc. This bill is justified only by the need to comply with the deadlines for transposition, which is imperative for European texts, some of which are more than three years old. It highlights, in some cases, the delays in the Government's policy in incorporating these directives and regulations into French law. The bill is scrambling the debate, and it does not always proceed with a proper legislative transposition. Indeed, it refers to numerous ordinances: fourteen out of twenty-eight require authorization to do so. This preponderant place left to the regulatory power does not plead in favour of the publicity of debates and the democratisation of the issues related to the European Union. This text comes back to us again after the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, which highlighted the fact that there were at least two points of disagreement between the Assembly and the Senate. First of all, Article 24 on the management of the EAFRD empowers the Government to legislate by ordinances, in order to allocate the management of superfacial and non-superfacial aid to the regions. Despite the initial opposition of the Senate, the traditional guardian of the prerogatives of territorial communities, it seems that the new wording of the article is now suitable for our honourable senators. Also debated was the abolition by the Assembly of Article 4 bis, introduced in the Senate, unanimously by the groups, on the basis of a proposal for a law on the free choice of consumers in cyberspace. In order to unblock the situation, the Senate rapporteur proposed a compromise in CMP, which the Assembly rapporteur refused on the grounds of a risk of legal uncertainty. In any event, these important issues relating to digital services probably deserved better than transposition into an additional article and would have justified the consideration in session of a dedicated text. Of course, there is no prohibition that French legislation anticipates the action of the European legislator; However, for reasons of consistency, it would not be absurd to wait until the European Commission has presented its proposal: this would make it possible to better align the national legislative proposals which one of the two chambers of the French Parliament would like to see adopted. In view of my preliminary remarks on the nature of this text and the many disadvantages it contains alongside certain useful provisions, the Socialist and related group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u23	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u24	We are meeting again today to discuss the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law. The review of this text has been disrupted by the health crisis and it is therefore all the more urgent to vote on it today. This complex and technical bill aims to adapt our legislation to European Union law in a wide range of sectors – economic, financial, digital and cultural. The aim is to enable France to comply with 18 directives and 14 European regulations and to be exemplary in the transposition of European Union law. The National Assembly had retained at first reading a number of contributions from the Senate, including three new articles on veterinarians, which is why we all regret that we have not been able to reach an agreement within the Joint Joint Committee. Despite its complexity, this text contains many provisions that represent concrete progress for the daily lives of the French, but also for our companies, which are currently suffering from the crisis. This is particularly the case with regard to consumer protection. This text makes it possible to harmonise quality controls on products marketed on the European internal market in a fairer way, which meets a strong demand from our citizens and businesses. The same rules must be applied by all and for all: this is a strong measure, and we welcome it, of this bill. We are also adapting our consumer law in the digital age, through the strengthening of sanctions against fraud or the fight against unfair practices. The fight against illegal content and online fraud has also been reinforced by the granting of new blocking powers to the DGCCRF when it finds an infringement. We are also making competition law more effective by strengthening the fight against all restrictive competition practices for digital platforms. We also welcome the widening of the scope of universal service, which will take better account of the new uses of our citizens. The adoption of this bill will speed up the deployment of high-speed Internet throughout the country. The directive on the code of electronic communications relating to universal service will therefore accompany initiatives that we have already taken with the France very high-speed plan and the recovery plan, which plan to generalise fibre by 2025. As far as culture is concerned, I would like to highlight the work done by our Committee on Cultural Affairs, which is seized of Articles 24a and 24, and by its rapporteur. These articles empower the Government to transpose the European ADM Directive, which is to be implemented before 2020, by means of ordinances. This directive, much expected by authors, artists and professionals in the media and cultural industries, should help to protect our model of cultural exception by establishing equity between all actors who broadcast audiovisual and cinematographic works in France. Its importance is all the more important today as culture is going through a major crisis with the global health crisis. The latter only accentuated the imbalances between the platforms, which have experienced strong growth, and the French television services, whose economic difficulties have worsened considerably. We can be proud to be among the first Member States to implement this transposition of directives that are crucial to the cultural industry. The work in public session also included commitments by the Government to the Omnibus Directive: it confirmed, inter alia, that the withdrawal period for online purchases would not be reduced, which reassured the actors involved in direct sales. An agreement was also reached on the allocation of powers relating to the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The Government had proposed a balanced amendment, adopted at the meeting, which provided for the application of a clear division of powers between the State and the regions, in consultation with the Ministers. This bill thus strengthens a European Union that better protects its consumers, increases the fight against unfair competition and harmonises commercial practices between Member States. This is a strong demand from our fellow citizens, and we should, on this point, welcome the work that has been done. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party will again vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u25	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u26	As Members of the UDI Group and independent Members of the European Parliament, we are in favour of European integration and we are confident in our approach to this bill. Although it is very complex, its political significance is important. It is particularly technical, as it contains provisions covering virtually the entire spectrum of economic and financial activity. These include consumer protection, the digital market, the fight against fraud and money laundering, business relations, competition rules and even animal genetics. It is not shocking that transpositions are made by order – and this is common – provided that Parliament is involved. The diversity of the provisions of this text reflects the strong legislative activity of the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament in recent years: it is a matter of strengthening the integration of our internal market before the harmonisation of the laws of the various States, in an approach of simplification. This diversity of text is also a sign of latent delay in transposing European law. In order to ensure the competitiveness of our enterprises, it is indeed necessary to have a national law which complies with the requirements of the European Union. The original bill contained twenty-five articles and now included forty-two articles, some fifteen of which contained authorizations to make orders. The CMP failed because of the Assembly's deletion of Article 4 bis, which had been unanimously adopted by the Senate. At the initiative of Senator Sophie Primas, it aimed to establish a new power to regulate the neutrality of terminals and platforms. The majority justified its refusal on the grounds of a European regulation currently being drawn up on this subject. We believe that a reasonable compromise could have been reached to regulate this sector and avoid unnecessary further reading in view of the speed of debates in committee and the few amendments tabled today. I will now go back to a few points in the text. We welcome the developments made by the Senate to facilitate the practice of certain veterinary acts, or the freedom given to local and regional authorities to assist veterinarians in areas where these professionals are rare. Of course, we regret that the audiovisual bill, some of which are included in our text, has not been able to go beyond the stage of examination in committee, but we understand the need to act quickly on several of these issues, including the remuneration of authors or the participation of digital platforms in the financing of French works. In the fight against fraud, we call for stronger control of financial flows through vigorous measures. Indeed, we are witnessing an evolution of the current system for controlling the flow of cash. In this sense, the strengthening of the traceability of container flows and the intensification of the control of customs risk analysis services, in particular with regard to fraud, are fundamental. Furthermore, we support stricter supervision and regulation of the banking sector, in particular with the transposition of the measures in the banking package, which strengthen prudential supervision of investment firms. Finally, we welcome the continued management of EAFRD funds at local level. Let us trust the territories and their elected ones. We will be vigilant about any over-transposition in the ordinances. That is why I regret that consideration of the bill abolishing overtranspositions of European directives into French law has been suspended, even though some of its provisions have already been incorporated into various bills. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Harmonisation, simplification and efficiency: this concrete text is proof of a Europe that protects. The IDU and independent group will therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u27	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u28	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u29	Over the weeks, the texts are followed. Thus, after the passage of the ASAP bill, we are reviewing the DDADUE bill. In both cases, the topics covered are multiple; But this time the text finds consistency in its desire to adapt our economic and financial law to the legislative developments decided at European level. In doing so, and through provisions as diverse as they are technical, it addresses major issues. I will mention only a few of them, starting with the economic field, and more specifically the digital sector. Several European directives and regulations propose substantial developments aimed at strengthening the harmonisation of rules and improving consumer protection. We must now ensure that it is properly transposed. The Omnibus Directive, for example, contains provisions that prohibit the practice of double-quality products and define online marketplaces, as well as new e-commerce obligations – all of which will contribute to better protection of Internet users. Similarly, Articles 3 and 4, which combat cross-border and national geographical blocking, contribute to the creation of a single digital market and empower the players involved in online sales. With regard to Article 4a, the elimination of which by the majority led to the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, I agree with the rapporteur Valéria Faure-Muntian's analysis: questions relating to the free choice of consumers in cyberspace must be decided within the framework of the Digital Services Act, the European scale being the most relevant for regulating digital technology. However, I would like to point out that, in considering Mrs Laetitia Avia's bill to combat hateful content on the Internet, we recommended, for these same reasons, that we wait for European arbitration. I have the vivid memory that the majority had been less sensitive to our arguments. I am pleased, moreover, that the CMP has retained the contributions of the Senate concerning veterinarians, namely the authorization of advertising for veterinary vaccines for professional breeders, the supervision of veterinary acts carried out by veterinary students abroad but trainees in France, and, above all, the mechanism for combating veterinary desertification – a problem that is worsening in some territories. The answer follows the model of the medical desert control system; Let's promise she'll be more successful. In the financial field, the provisions correspond to essential European projects, such as the Banking Union and the Capital Markets Union. Article 12, for example, empowers the Government to transpose by order the Directive of 27 November 2019 on the issuance of guaranteed bonds and the public supervision of guaranteed obligations. I turn to the ADM directive and the two directives on copyright and related rights. We had to ensure their transposition on the occasion of the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age. However, the review of this text was interrupted by the health crisis last March, after which the Government simply abandoned any audiovisual bill. We must therefore make urgent use of the ordinances. If we regret the method, however, we had expressed, from the beginning of the first confinement, the need to meet European obligations in this field, and to respond as quickly as possible to the old and legitimate expectations of authors, artists, media professionals and cultural industries. The transposition of the guidelines on copyright and related rights will help to rebalance power relations and ensure that authors benefit from enhanced rights, particularly in the area of remuneration. The SMA directive also allows platforms located abroad to be subject to the obligations to finance audiovisual and film production, a crucial issue in support of audiovisual creation, which is severely affected by the crisis. We will therefore be particularly vigilant about the content of the ordinances and decrees: they will have to seek a balance between all the stakeholders, in order to preserve and promote cultural diversity. However, we are rather in favour of this approach, especially since the bill passed by the commission last March did not meet these objectives. I was talking about the method. In this regard, we must recognize that the use of a sweeping text has become an obligation of the Government, because too much delay had been made in transposing European directives and regulations. Some articles thus concern European legislative acts adopted more than three years ago, the coming entry into force of which is imperative for us. In times of crisis, we would have liked to manage emergencies rather than make up for the backlog. Nevertheless, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u30	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u31	It allows for significant progress, expected by our fellow citizens, by the economic world and by the cultural world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u32	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u33	I will focus on the three sections of the bill on which the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has been referred for its opinion. Two of them are the result of government amendments presented in the Senate on 8 July 2020. They aim to empower the Government to legislate by order to transpose European directives. The content of these articles actually covers a large part of the provisions of the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, abandoned in the spring. Far from reaching consensus, these provisions have been discussed and amended by all political groups. Discussions were even held in the majority between the rapporteurs and the Government. By making an order in such an important area, the Government once again deprives Parliament of its rights and deliberately undermines the normal functioning of our democracy. Let us take, for example, article 24 bis, which allows the Government to make orders to transpose the directive on copyright and related rights into the digital single market: it corresponds in all respects to articles 16 and 17 of the draft law on audiovisual communication. It establishes the principle that content sharing platforms become responsible for such content. During the debate on the draft law on audiovisual communication, the group La France insoumé was the spokesperson for various associations, such as La quadrature du net, in order to oppose the consequences of this measure: in our view, it is tantamount to making filtering tools mandatory for downloading and uploading. This would result in a widespread monitoring system for Internet users as well as abusive deletions of content. During the examination of the draft law on audiovisual communication, we discussed the amendments proposed by the Group of the European People's Party (La France insoumée), aimed at achieving interoperability. It would preserve the freedom of users, allowing them to leave a platform without breaking the interpersonal links they have with other users. In other words, we could leave Facebook for another platform by keeping our contacts. At the moment, this is not technically possible, which gives companies such as YouTube, Facebook and Twitter disproportionate power. Thanks to their huge number of users and the lack of interoperability, these Internet giants have made us captive and impose constant surveillance for advertising purposes. In short, while this directive seeks to defend copyrights and condemns piracy, it does not attack the monopoly of platforms or the illegality of their revenues, based on advertising that is not consented to by users. Such an issue calls for an in-depth debate on national representation; However, it is prevented by a method whereby ordinances prevail. I wanted to table an amendment proposing the drafting of an information report on how to implement an obligation of interoperability for providers of online content sharing services. It has been found inadmissible, which has prevented any discussion and once again ousted the representatives of the nation that we are. Let us now turn to section 24 ter to authorize the Government to make orders to implement the ADM directive. Again, Parliament is deprived of debate. However, the Government urges us to vote on this provision by stating, in the summary statement of the amendment which gave rise to the article, that "Member States must comply with the Directive by 19 September 2020 at the latest", and that "in the event of non-compliance with this deadline, France could be the subject of an action for failure by the European Commission to comply with the Directive before the Court of Justice of the European Union". The threat of European sanctions in no way justifies the obstacles to parliamentary debate; It does not justify that the arrangements for the contribution of audiovisual media services, as well as subscription video platforms, to the production of works should be decided by decree. Such a procedure also prevents us from denouncing the amendment allowing the expenditure made in favour of higher education institutions of artistic creation in the fields of cinema and audiovisual communication to be taken into account in the calculation of the expenditure eligible for the contribution to the development of production. Thus, the Government can respond to Disney+'s injunctions, without MPs having a say! Thanks to you, Disney will be able to train its executives at the École de l'image des Gobelins, while emancipating itself from its obligations to finance independent production or in the French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u34	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u35	[[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] Therefore, voting in favour of these sections of the DDADUE bill would be tantamount to giving our trust to the government to negotiate with large platforms on subjects as primordial as freedom of expression, censorship, widespread surveillance of Internet users, facial recognition – and I pass it. However, arbitrariness, blank cheques and Parliament's disavowal are not part of the values of the La France insoumée group. We will not therefore vote on this text. [[Mr Michel Larive spoke at the foot of the rostrum, returning to his place in the Chamber.]] Mr. O, aren't we bothering you too much? You didn't raise your phone's nose, it's very rude!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u36	Talk to your colleagues, who didn't listen to me when I was in the gallery!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u37	Mr Larive, everyone listened carefully. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u38	We are considering, again, a bill presented by the Government itself as a "broomed text", the sole purpose of which is to bring us into line as soon as possible with an impressive number of more or less recent European provisions. You justify the exercise by the need for France to be up to date with its European obligations for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union to be held in the first half of 2022. To make it easier for you to do your job, you have linked between them links to documents, and decided to use the order procedure for more than half of the articles. This text therefore reflects once again – we do not get used to it – your low esteem for parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u39	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u40	On the substance, some of the provisions of the bill are in the right direction. Measures to protect consumer rights, as well as measures to combat unfair commercial practices in the agricultural and food supply chain, are welcome. Those which are intended to combat false declarations of customs origin of the goods, or to better control the flow of cash, can only receive our consent. But, looking more closely at this fatras of heterogeneous provisions, we soon discover much more questionable measures. This is the case with the transposition of directives aimed at reducing costs and obstacles for investment fund managers in the European area, or with the transposition of the directive on the transparency of State aid of a tax nature. The latter is not intended, as we may naively believe, to ensure that citizens and economic actors are transparently informed about the use of public money and the reduction of burdens on businesses; It aims in fact to better identify and control potential infringements of free competition, and to prevent the State from supporting, through targeted measures, the industrial sector at risk. This directive is an anachronistic submission to the sacrosanct rules of competition – at a time when we need more than ever a strategist state and an interventionist state. Later in the text, we find provisions that we agree with regarding the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, when others leave us more perplexed. As far as the management of European agricultural funds is concerned, we are therefore proposing that the Government be empowered to change the system of State administration of agricultural aid. The Senate considered it necessary to have an in-depth debate on this matter; We share his point of view. We are also surprised to find, in the draft law, the transposition of the two 2019 European directives on copyright and related rights, which aim to better protect authors whose works are disseminated on the platforms. By empowering suppliers, these directives give them an automated censorship power that questions us – the subject would again deserve a thorough debate. The icing on this indigestible cake: the majority of our assembly thought it was good to delete, at first reading, an article that was unanimously adopted by the Senate. Our honourable senators proposed a new framework for digital giants through three broad provisions: terminal neutrality, platform interoperability, and enhanced merger control to address so-called predatory acquisitions. After postponing any moratorium on Amazon settlements, you now refuse to take the lead against digital giants by serving interests that are, from our point of view, not in the general interest. Unfortunately, the disproportionate format of this text, which has been constantly amended by the Government, does not allow our Assembly to conduct a debate worthy of that name and fully exercise its prerogatives. Here we are reduced caricatureally, once again, to the status of a recording chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u41	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u42	[[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] We are therefore opposed to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u43	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u44	We are here again in this House to discuss this bill on various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law. At first reading, we have already had the opportunity to recall the importance of this text, which is essential on two aspects. Firstly, it illustrates France's example of the transposition of European Union law, with a view to its future presidency, which will begin in January 2022 – an example that we have constantly recalled since the beginning of the quinquennium. Secondly, it will strengthen the European internal market and the rights of our citizens. Thus, after its first reading in the Senate, our objective was to make this technical text – and sometimes unattractive to some – a text of consensus, trans-partisan. For these reasons it was widely adopted by our Assembly at its first reading. Despite criticism by some, the use of prescriptions can be seen as a pragmatic and serious choice, corresponding to the technicality and complexity of the topics addressed. This will enable us to quickly implement our Community obligations and to deal with the urgency of the transposition deadlines imposed by the European texts themselves. This text is technical and covers multiple topics. Some of you have used the words "broom text" at its first reading: it addresses the issues of consumer protection, market surveillance, the fight against unfair commercial practices, customs taxation, and many other issues. That is why it has required the referral of three different committees: the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education and the Committee on Finance. I would also like to thank all our colleagues for their work. We have also tried to reconcile, in this text, the interests of our two assemblies, far from the quarrels of chapels. The Senate has completed this by adding provisions relating to veterinary deserts or unfair commercial practices between suppliers and large-scale distribution. We welcomed these changes. Our House, and in particular the Committee on Economic Affairs, has added provisions on the procedures under the Autorité de la concurrence and has completed the part relating to the universal service of electronic communications. The Committee on Cultural Affairs transposed, among other things, the Copyright Directive and strengthened the role of HADOPI, the High Authority for the Dissemination of Works and the Protection of Rights on the Internet, in the transposition of copyright and related rights. The Committee on Finance has completed the provisions on the control of the movement of funds. Unfortunately, the Joint Joint Committee has failed to reach agreement on this text, even though it must necessarily be adopted before the end of the year. That is why we are meeting again in the Chamber today. Throughout our work in the National Assembly, we have maintained the spirit of the rules of law to be transposed, without falling into overtransposition – for overtransposition, as everyone knows, would handicap our economy as well as complicate the lives of our fellow citizens. So we made a commitment not to overtranspose: that's why we opposed the Senate's introduction of Article 4 bis. Since that provision had been described as a "legislative rider", it should be excluded from the text. Whether or not we shared the spirit of this article, we had to oppose it, firstly, because it was not directly linked to the transposition of Community law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u45	What do your colleagues from the Republic think is going on in the Senate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u46	...second, because it would have hindered the development of the digital market while negotiations are under way in Brussels. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the subjects covered in this text bring us together. I therefore invite you to support this bill, which strengthens the internal market of the European Union and the rights of our citizens, and which makes France an example of European obligations. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u47	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u48	I now call, in the text of the commission, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u49	Article 4 bis has been deleted by the National Assembly. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u50	This amendment by Mr Jérôme Nury seeks to restore Article 4 bis by taking up the compromise proposal made in the Joint Joint Committee by our fellow senators, all political groups involved – including, therefore, the Senators of the Republic on the move – a proposal rejected by the Members of the La République Group on the move. The amendment also aims to strengthen, as of this year, the DGCCRF's fight against misleading interfaces, commonly referred to as "dark patterns". The prohibition of these interfaces allowing a website to manipulate consumer choices is particularly necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u51	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u52	The unanimous adoption of this provision by the Senate is a strong argument,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u53	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u54	...I grant you this, but the National Assembly is no less legitimate than the Senate. If there is a disagreement between the two chambers, I therefore think that it should be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u55	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u56	On the substance, I have repeatedly expressed my disagreement about the level at which we should operate. We would create legal uncertainty by adopting this article as discussions are under way on the European scene – a text will be presented by the European Commission on 2 December, and it will soon be adopted as there is a European consensus on consumer protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u57	You did the same for the Avia law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u58	Introducing such a provision into French law a few weeks before the European announcements, which is also in the midst of a health crisis, would increase the insecurity felt by the economic actors in our country. To which saint will they be able to dedicate themselves if they do not know what legislation they will be subject to?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u59	But there is the "sunset clause"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u60	The "sunset clause" does not exist in France. From a constitutional point of view, it is not possible to make the application of a national law conditional on the adoption of future European rules. I would add that your writing is extremely fuzzy. What is an "equivalent" regulation or directive? When the European text is adopted, it will not apply in France: we will then have to adopt a transposition law amending pre-existing but not yet implemented legislation. Neither in substance nor in form, your amendment is not acceptable. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u62	I will add some elements to the arguments put forward by the rapporteur. First of all, I confirm what has been said about the European text. We had already had a similar debate on the Avia law – the opposition had also held the opposite reasoning as it is today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u63	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u64	Whose act, Mrs. Dumas. I raised this morning with Thierry Breton, European Commissioner for the Internal Market, the question of the DSA – Digital Services Act – and the DMA – Digital Markets Act, and it was categorical: if we want to succeed and see provisions that are not very far from the French positions, we must not "get out" before, because we would risk rushing our European partners. As for the sunset clause, it does not exist in French law. You refer to an equivalent regulation or directive, but what exactly does that mean? For the GAFA tax, we did not introduce a sunset clause; We simply stated that we would do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u65	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u66	On the other hand, I am sorry to tell you, your amendment has been written with your feet. It reduces the subject to an article of the consumer code that already exists: it therefore does not create any new legislation at all. Finally, you want to amend the law but you postpone its application to 2023. That's the pompom! You write about anything by saying to yourself that this is no problem, since these provisions will not be applied now. It is not at all to the honor of the legislator to vote a law applicable in 2023, after the next presidential election. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u67	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u68	I listened very carefully to the comments of the rapporteur and the Secretary of State. I can't hide from you what I think of the somewhat condescending tone...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u70	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] ... with which you deal with senators and MPs who have ideas and have the weakness of wanting to turn them into legislative initiatives, especially since our intention was good and because, in substance, some members of the majority recognized, a few moments ago in the gallery or last week in the CMP, that our idea was relevant. In the structured and regular dialogue between national representation and members of the Government, there is no need for such condescending. An expression such as "it's the pompon", which you have used, Secretary of State, does not seem to us to be entirely up to the debate. I come back to the substantive question, which has also arisen with regard to the GAFA tax and the provisions of the Avia Act, which are likely to be reintroduced, in one way or another, into the future bill on separatism. It is nevertheless not inappropriate to consider that the French Parliament, the national representation, can legislate...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u71	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u72	... or express wishes without it coming to "sweet" the negotiating positions of the executive or compromising a building that will necessarily be very long and laborious to build at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u74	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u75	After the events of the last few days, you are in a bad position to teach us about our condescendence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u76	Go easy on it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u77	Section 4 bis, inserted by the Senate in the bill, is a legislative precedent. It also poses a fundamental problem: whether or not we share the objective and content of this measure, which, I would remind you, aims to set up a mechanism for regulating platforms and to guarantee the neutrality of terminals, the national level is not the right one. Action was needed at the European level, and that was what the Government was doing. Introducing such a provision into French law would block our policy space at European level. In addition, this provision deserves a broader debate than that allowed by the examination of a simple additional article in a draft law for the transposition of European directives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u79	The debate on this issue is necessary and important because it engages the digital life of all our citizens. We will have this debate when we discuss the Digital Services Act being concluded by the European Commission. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the Group of the European People's Party is in favour of maintaining the deletion of Article 4a.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u80	It is the Assembly as we like it: a Chamber of Registration!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u81	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u82	Directive (EU) 2020/1504 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 October 2020 amending Directive 2014/ 65/EU on markets in financial instruments has just been published in the Official Journal of the European Union of 20 October 2020. It fixes 10 May 2021 as the deadline for transposition of the amendments contained therein. In view of this very short period of time, it would be a good management task to empower the Government, through this bill, to make the amendments to the 2014 directive. The amendment concerns the second paragraph of Article 13 as it provides for the transposition of the amendments to the latter Directive by Directive (EU) 2019/2034 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on prudential supervision of investment firms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u83	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u84	Everyone will have understood that the 2014 Directive is amended by two directives, one from 2019 and the other from 2020, which we believe is appropriate to transpose simultaneously in order to simplify the transposition measures and avoid inconsistencies. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u85	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u86	The aim of this amendment is to secure the authorisation to legislate by ordinances to transpose the latest European banking package. The new reading of this bill delays its adoption, which leads to tensions on the timetable for the empowerment of European texts. Of course, the Council of State has begun consideration of the Government's draft orders, but it will only be able to decide once the DDADUE bill has been finally adopted. The extension of the period of authorization by one month will prevent it from expiring before the adoption of the ordinances. No one wants to take such a risk, which would lead to a considerable delay in transposing European directives – a delay that would be detrimental to the proper supervision of the banking sector. This amendment will also allow the Government to maintain the current identity between the supervision of banks in the European sense and that of financing companies, a regime specific to French law; the original authorization did not allow it. It is therefore necessary to extend to financing companies the transposition of Directive 2019/ 878/EU, known as CRD V, as was already done when Directive 2013/ 36/EU, known as CRD IV, was transposed. The aim is to ensure financial stability and coherence of the action of the CPRA, the Supervisory and Resolution Authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u88	In substance, we all agree: this is an important step that follows the adoption in the law of 22 May 2019 on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE, of provisions enabling the Government to transpose the banking package. We are asked to secure these provisions by delaying the period of authorisation by one month, otherwise we would be forced to adopt a new enabling text, which would delay transposition. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u89	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u90	Because my colleague has only sensible words!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u91	The examination of this article and the next one is probably the ultimate opportunity for me to express my views on the three European directives on audiovisual media services, on copyright and on the broadcasting of programmes by cable and satellite. I would like to recall that the political family of the Republican Right, to which I belong, has always worked energetically and decisively in favour of the recognition of copyright. Everyone in our place, in the European institutions and in the European Parliament, but also in the Senate and the National Assembly, we have all acted, through positions, European resolutions and, if necessary, votes – as I experienced when I was a Member of the European Parliament – to finalize and consolidate the European directives in question. I repeat: yes, we believe that these three directives must be transposed as soon as possible. Yes, we firmly believe that the right of authors and creators must be recognized, respected and guaranteed everywhere and by all, especially in the digital age. Yes, we believe that digital sharing platforms must participate in funding French audiovisual and film creation. Yes, we believe that legal provisions are needed to strengthen intellectual property law, to guarantee the rights of authors and creators, and to combat piracy. I hope that we will soon have before us a text to strengthen this struggle; For my part, I am prepared to do so, having tabled a bill on the subject with colleagues in the Republican Group. Finally, yes, we believe in the right to remuneration proportional to the fruits of the exploitation of works. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Aurore Bergé, draftswoman for opinion, also applauds]] For all these reasons, we are enthusiastically voting for the transposition of these three directives, and therefore of Articles 24a and 24b.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u92	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u93	As I said in the general discussion, the authorization provided for in this Article deprives parliamentarians of their legislative power, whereas the transpositions envisaged have already given rise to lively debates in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, in particular on matters as important as freedom of expression. It is inconceivable that you will once again come into force by reducing Parliament to a simple registration chamber. You do not even make the effort, Secretary of State, to listen to the arguments of the spokespersons of the groups during the general discussion. Beyond this sufficiency, this condescending displayed and already raised,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u94	It's good to call him back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u95	Is the new app better than Stopcovid?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u96	... your attitude shows your disdain for national representation and in particular for your oppositions. By this amendment, we call for the abolition of this authorisation; We want a parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u98	As you said yourself in the general discussion, Mr Larive: we had this debate at the first reading of the audiovisual bill by the Committee on Cultural Affairs. It has adopted a text which you have even recalled that this article contains articles 16 and 17. Therefore, speaking of contempt for parliamentary work while you yourself accredit the idea that this text is bearing the fruit of parliamentary work is somewhat cunning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u99	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] On the contrary, we are proud to vote for the transposition of a directive that will strengthen the rights of authors and performers, in particular. In the period of crisis we are going through, we must send a clear signal to the cultural sector; If we have to go through orders to go faster, parliamentarians can be prepared for it – this is the case of the majority and Members sitting beyond the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u102	I will not answer your question on the substance, Mr Larive, because the rapporteur for an opinion has done so very well. However, I would like to turn your remark to you: perhaps you could look at it when it answers you, and look at the other parliamentarians who speak instead of consulting your phone. As you can see, demagogic arguments can be easily returned. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I could also point out to you, Mr Larive, that I have hardly seen you in the Chamber for the consideration of this text! If you had been there, you would have had the answer to all of your arguments. We must work seriously; There is no point in making demagogic arguments that do no service to parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u103	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u104	The demagogue, Secretary of State, it's not me! I was in the Chamber, and you probably weren't there! The ordinances, Mrs Bergé, are made not to debate: the Constitution provides precisely that they will allow us to move forward as quickly as possible on the texts without debating them! So you say everything and its opposite – which is ultimately normal. If you don't like it, it's the same: I have the right to tell you that I do not agree with your text and that I want to discuss it! You don't want it and prefer to be strong: it's your choice, you can't deny it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u105	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u106	In the current period, we must keep our cool and avoid putting oil back on fire.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u107	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u108	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I am surprised, Secretary of State, that on a text that could be discussed calmly, you were adding oil on fire to each intervention by members of minority groups. On the contrary, we must seek national unity and this must appear in the way the Government is accountable to Parliament... But you go on, by your gestures! All members of the national representation were elected; That's the difference with those named!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u109	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u110	I have already expressed my concern about Article 17 of the Directive on Copyright and Related Rights in the Digital Single Market, in particular because it presents the risk of widespread surveillance by the major platforms. In view of these crucial issues and in order to preserve freedom of expression but also to defend our sovereignty against the giants of the net, we call for the abolition of the transposition of Article 17 so that Parliament can debate it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u112	Once again, you are attacking the choice of the use of orders, but once again, since you express yourself in a parliamentary debate, you can see that the use of orders does not in any way affect the ability of parliamentarians to debate. On the other hand, the draft ordinances are made public; The Government has no hidden agenda. Like any citizen, you can consult the ordinances and you will see, if you do, that they strictly comply with the provisions adopted in the Committee on Cultural Affairs when considering the audiovisual bill. In other words, parliamentary work is respected. By this amendment, you propose to delete the transposition of Article 17 of the Directive. Apart from the fact that it is not possible to choose on the map which parts of the directive we would like to transpose or not, you would therefore delete a major provision concerning the managed liability of the platforms, and hence the ability to respect copyright and related rights. You have said this regularly: you are for these rights to be respected. I suggest you prove this by withdrawing your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u114	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u115	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u116	Everything is possible here, Madam draftsman: we are in the place of expression of democracy. It is therefore possible to delete Article 17 from the list of those that need to be transposed, but you do not want it, that's all! Let's say, you don't want to argue. People understood that the use of the order, such as the use of section 49-3, precludes debate, the final point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u117	That's not true! That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u118	Even if negotiations are under way in the European Parliament, nothing prevents us here from debating and even legislating!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u119	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u120	We need to regain calm in this debate. Transpositions of directives have indeed fallen behind, and work by ordinances is not the cup of tea of parliamentarians, as this amounts to giving a white-seing to the Government and the administration to transpose the directives. Mr Larive has the right to speak and to call for a parliamentary debate, because these important issues deserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u121	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u122	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 5 to delete Rule 24b.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u123	Nor should the directive on copyright, the so-called SMA directive, "audiovisual media services" be imposed on us without a debate taking place in our chamber. This second request to empower the Government to legislate by ordinance is all the less admissible because it deals with such important subjects as facial recognition for minors and the preservation of our cultural sovereignty in the face of giants such as Netflix, Amazon and other Disneys. We oppose such an empowerment and we ask that the parliamentary debate be held.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u125	I know I will not convince you, honourable Member, but we are having this debate. We also discussed this during the discussion of the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age. We debated it during the examination of this DDADE bill, in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and in the public sitting at first reading, and again in the committee at second reading. These lengthy hours of debate have enabled us to reach consensus which has resulted in the unanimous adoption of these articles at the first reading of the DDADU bill here in this House, which is to be noted. I repeat, respecting parliamentary work is precisely to allow these platforms you are talking about to be forced tomorrow to contribute financially to the creation in our country. These investments are essential for audiovisual and film creation. Again, the Government has no hidden agenda: these ordinances are published. The administration is not a cold monster that would work against us and against our ambitions, on the contrary: it implements what parliamentarians have decided and what parliamentarians have debated. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u127	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u128	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u129	You are right, Madam draftsman, we must show respect for the work of parliamentarians. That is why we propose to delete this authorisation: so that we can finally debate this text. It took less than thirty minutes to adopt some thirty articles: I'll let you think about that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u130	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u131	This amendment provides for the amendment of the comparative table to take account of the overseas coordination measure. Article 12 of Order No. 2019-1169 of 13 November 2019 on trade marks for goods or services coordinates the entry into force of the provisions relating to overseas of Order No. 2018-341 of 9 May 2018 on the European patent with unitary effect and on the unified jurisdiction of the patent with those of this Order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u132	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u133	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u134	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 84 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 79 Against 5
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u135	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u136	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u137	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u138	We are dealing with the examination of credits relating to the media, books and cultural industries (No 3399, Volume III, Annex 30; No 3459, Volume III; No 3403, Volume VIII) and the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector". Mrs Marie-Ange Magne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u139	The media, press, film and music sectors have all been deeply affected by the health crisis. The decision to reconfinish, difficult, but responsible and necessary, is terrible news, especially for the live musical show and the cinema. However, we remain faithful to our commitment to support our cultural industries at all costs. I would remind you that the third law on amending finance opens up 170 million euros of credits for newspaper merchants, the creation of France Messagerie and the local audiovisual media, under programme 180. Two hundred and four million euros have been allocated under the 334 programme for books, music and cinema. This is already a very significant effort. The PLF for 2021 is a continuation of the measures adopted last July: a 3.4% permanent increase in payment appropriations for the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" and an ambitious recovery plan of more than 400 million euros. With regard to support for the press and the media, the 180 programme is on the increase of 3% and amounts to EUR 289 million. Specific support of €2 million is granted to ultramarine titles, as well as to online political and general information services – IPG – which have long been excluded from IPG media support, and which are allocated €4 million: support for the paper industry must not prevent us from accompanying the digital transition. In addition, the increase in the number of associative radios linked to DAB+ – digital audio broadcasting – is also offset to maintain the level of aid. Beyond the budget allocated to Programme 180, the Recovery Plan provides for an amount of EUR 70 million in payment appropriations for the press under Programme 363. It is intended to allow the implementation of a genuine plan for the sector, aimed in particular at encouraging the ecological transition, through a fund of €8 million, the transformation of the printing works of the regional press, thanks to a fund of €18 million, the transformation of the Strategic Fund for the Development of the Press, the amount of which is more than doubled to reach €39 million. It also provides support for 24 million euros of newspaper merchants. It is therefore an ambitious plan, which will have to be continued for the long term. Restructuring, modernisation, ecological and digital transition: all essential aspects are addressed. I now turn to books and cultural industries. In addition to the increase of almost €20 million in programme 334, allocated to the work of the Bibliothèque nationale de France – BNF – and the rise of the Centre national de la musique – CNM, the recovery plan supports the three major cultural industries of books, music and cinema. The book sector plan provides for EUR 30 million, which would allow the modernisation of bookstores and included an important demand component, such as the distribution of "Read" cheques for young people and the financing of purchases for libraries. Regrettably, the reconfiguration once again weakens a sector that has risen, but I note with satisfaction the adaptability of our bookstores, much more numerous this time to propose to click it and take it away. As far as music is concerned, EUR 50 million has already been granted to the CNM under the third amending finance law – LFR3. In addition to the allocation under programme 334, EUR 200 million is allocated to the NJC in 2021 to support the sector. This is a very important effort, which must be welcomed, and to which will be added the EUR 55 million foreseen by the PLFR4, the fourth draft law on amending finance. With regard to cinema, the € 165 million plan is intended to compensate for the tax losses of the National Film and Animation Centre – CNC – which amounts to € 60 million. The rest is the recovery plan itself, intended to support film schools, export abroad or to accompany the most fragile operators, such as art and test cinemas. Once again, the recovery time is delayed and the €30 million additional envelope announced in response to the new health rules is an essential source of oxygen. With regard to the public audiovisual sector, the structural downward trend in public competitions continues, with a long-term allocation of around 70 million euros, which thus stands at 3.64 billion euros, in line with the trajectory drawn in 2018. I will pay particular attention to the various reforms and departure plans planned by France Télévisions and Radio France, in particular, for France 3 and France Bleu networks, to their effects on teams in the region. To compensate for the losses related to production costs and additional costs during the health crisis, as well as the decrease in own revenue, an exceptional amount of EUR 70 million was allocated to operators. It will ensure a powerful investment in audiovisual creation, which is very important for the entire industry. In conclusion, in this uncertain context, the State is therefore fully mobilized and engaged alongside media, book, cultural and public audiovisual actors to overcome this challenge and to support them in their efforts to adapt and modernise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u140	Mrs Céline Calvez, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u141	Culture is all that man has invented to shape the world, to accommodate itself, and to make it liveable: this is in a few words what Aimé Césaire loved to say about culture. I fully subscribe to it, especially in these times that are disturbing our lives. And it is because the media and cultural industries are part of this unique and vital mission for our economy and for our lives that budgetary efforts in their favour are indispensable. In 2021, they are at the rendezvous and reflect a strong commitment from the Government. This budget, as we have already said, is exceptional. It comes after three – and soon four – amending finance laws that have already made it possible to adopt emergency measures in support of the sector. The finance bill is therefore the link between urgency and the necessary revival. It is a budget of optimism – let us keep this optimism! – which should allow us to re-engineer our cultural policy in order to protect, but also, and above all, to invite us to reinvent ourselves. As regards the mission "Media, books and cultural industries", for which I am draftsman, this exceptional budget is first of all reflected in an increase of EUR 20 million, reaching more than EUR 606 million. For the press and the media, an additional €8 million in support is essential, because the health crisis we are going through is a real disaster for all the sectors concerned. I am thinking first of all of the press, which has suffered a double crisis: a health crisis, first of all, marked by the closure of sales outlets and the collapse of turnover for paper editions; then a distribution crisis, with the bankruptcy of Presstalis. In order to help him cope with these difficulties, an unprecedented sector plan was decided, with no less than €483 million released between 2020 and 2022. This comprehensive plan will help the press, not only to cope with the consequences of the epidemic, but also to speed up its modernisation – I am thinking in particular of support for online press services or for the modernisation of the regional press press press, or the funds for the ecological transition or the fight against insecurity. In the end, the budget allocated to the press is as much a crisis budget as a recast budget, and I welcome it. I hope that these new appropriations will make it possible to really speed up the threefold transformation of the sector: digital transformation, because we really need to continue the reflection on the place of paper in tomorrow's journalistic offer, the ecological transformation, thanks to the anti-spousal law for a circular economy and our future work resulting from the citizen climate convention, and societal transformation, because equality between women and men must be a real priority for the media. The book and the cultural industries are not left behind, with a budget increasing by more than 11 million euros in 2021. These new funding will strengthen support for the National Music Centre and the book industry, all of which must be taken into account, from authors to publishers, printers, distributors, broadcasters and booksellers. As for cinema, it enjoys massive support in the recovery plan with 165 million euros for the whole sector, plus 50 million euros for cinemas. While the second wave of the epidemic once again puts this already largely devastated sector in difficulty, this support is crucial. With regard to the public audiovisual sector, the six companies' appropriations in the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector" fell by EUR 70 million in 2021. This decrease is broadly in line with the trajectory decided in 2018, but the effects of the crisis must be compensated, otherwise the situation will be financially unsustainable. This is why the recovery plan refinances the six companies to the tune of 70 million euros in 2021 and 2022. However, particular attention must be paid to the charges that are not cancelled, but simply postponed – I am thinking in particular of the broadcast of the Tokyo Olympic Games. Finally, as we mentioned a few days ago in committee, Madam Minister, the whole question of the future of the contribution to public broadcasting remains relevant. I hope that we will find solutions to ensure sustainable funding for public broadcasting: I believe in the multi-annual visibility that we owe to these companies, so that they can reaffirm the possible synergies that they are finding and that deserve to be developed. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This budget is that of artists, but also our budget to all of us, citizens. It contributes to strengthening the links between us, not only through culture, but also through democracy. That is why, on behalf of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u142	Mr Alain David, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u143	As with many other sectors, 2020 will have been an extraordinary year for our external audiovisual industry. Even before the health crisis upset the way in which programmes are organised and organized, the year began with a series of debates on the reform of the public audiovisual sector, which were postponed due to the health crisis. In the face of France Médias Monde's integration project within a public audiovisual holding company, the risks were great, in fact, to see the group and its three subsidiaries – RFI radios, Radio France internationale and MCD, Monte Carlo Doualiya, and the French television channel 24 – become real variables for adjusting the public audiovisual sector. As part of the recovery plan for the sector, France Médias Monde and TV5 Monde received only €500,000 each, out of a total of €70 million. While they have been generally less affected than other public audiovisual companies, they have nevertheless suffered as a result of the crisis, which has weakened their own resources, even though important savings plans had already had to be deployed since 2019. In line with the downward trend in 2018, France Médias Monde's allocation in the PLF for 2021 amounts to 254.7 million euros, down 500,000 euros from last year, and TV5 Monde's allocation to 76.15 million euros, which is stabilized after a decline of more than 1 million euros – all in a context of ever stronger international competition. External audiovisual is a great tool for our influence diplomacy, whose health crisis has reminded us of the importance. On the one hand, France Médias Monde and TV5 Monde had to review their organisation in order to meet a double imperative: to guarantee the protection of employees and to ensure their information mission. Socially and financially, public audiovisual companies have not used the partial unemployment scheme, unlike private companies. Not only have they managed crises without weighing on public funds, they have also been able to adapt their two missions to the needs of the crisis, by changing the programme grids. The audiovisual media have stepped up their efforts to combat misinformation, which the crisis has been able to promote. Particular attention was paid to the dissemination of preventive messages, particularly to African audiences. Finally, the external audiovisual sector contributed to the public education service by participating in the "Learning Nation" initiative. This mobilization was sanctioned by very good results: at the height of the crisis, the digital audiences of France Médias Monde tripled, and the overall annual trend maintained its progression. The same is true for TV5 Monde, which has seen a remarkable increase in its digital audiences and remains among the most popular international channels in French-speaking Africa. Our external audiovisual industry has also continued its editorial geographical development. For France Médias Monde, the switch to 12 hours of daily broadcast of France 24 in Spanish has made it possible to reach an increased number of households in Latin America. In addition, the strengthening of African languages has continued. For TV5 Monde, 2020 will have been the year of the review of the strategic plan 2017-2020, whose objectives have been achieved overall. As I have already mentioned, the external audiovisual companies, which managed the crisis without weighing on public funds, are the last served by the recovery plan, even though the crisis has weakened them financially by reducing their own resources: the decrease is 1.6 million euros in 2020 and 2 million in 2021 for France Médias Monde, and the anticipated decrease in 2020 for TV5 Monde is around 2 million euros. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] The resilience of our external audio-visual system must therefore not lead to a decrease in our vigilance: if we continue to reduce the means of our media, the risk of losing the battle of information and influence is great.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u144	We will now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u145	The year 2020, which was to be decisive for the media and cultural industries, will ultimately have been synonymous with disappointed hopes and missed appointments, amplified by the health crisis and its worrying consequences. Of course, the budget for this mission reflects an effort towards the media, book and cultural industries sectors, but the 4.8% increase foreseen in the PLF for 2021 may not be up to the enormous stakes. The challenges of reform in this sector, if any, are heavy and should be debated in Parliament. I am thinking in particular of the regulation of the digital market, whose profits have exploded for the benefit of the large platforms and whose power leads to the upheaval of the audiovisual landscape, or the fight against piracy, which does not yet have the means of its ambitions – HADOPI, the High Authority for the diffusion of works and the protection of rights on the Internet, is it the tool we need? We note, in programme 180, that the necessary budget increases are made to support the press and the media, and we stress the financing of a sector plan for the paper press, in great difficulty – publishing, distribution and sale are affected by a structural crisis further aggravated by the health crisis. If we are therefore to defend pluralism, which is essential to our democracy, we must give the budgets the necessary weight, whether by means of portage aids or those directed to national and general publications, to the daily newspapers and the local press and to the ultramarine press, as well as by all the aids for modernisation and innovation. The world of music, in its diversity, relies on the CNM to support it and carry its fights; The artists are counting on you, Minister. Another major sector, that of the book, which is popular during the period of confinement and which is the subject of particular attention by the French, must be supported more strongly. Booksellers, like all authors and publishers, are facing fierce competition. We appreciate the action you have taken to cover some of the shipping costs; We have proposed it in an amendment, and we hope that it will also benefit small publishers. The book is obviously an industry, but it is above all a major issue in the fight against illiteracy and against illiteracy, and an investment in collective intelligence – "read better and read more", as Erik Orsenna proposed. It is not a small task for communities to combat access disruptions in the territories: they do so by increasing support for digital resources through deconcentrated funding, but also by structuring and creating new networks of libraries, the use of which must be encouraged and promoted. The objective of extending the opening days and hours is to be welcomed, but the additional €2 million added to the programme 224 "Transmission of knowledge and democratization of culture" of the Culture mission does not seem sufficient to achieve it. Local commercial and associative radio stations, which, through their role of mediation and proximity, have helped to maintain a link with our fellow citizens since the beginning of the crisis, in Hexagon and overseas, also face a constant decline in their revenues and are in a very bad way. Around 700 people throughout the country are developing information and solidarity measures. It is important that a percentage of the ministry's assistance be clearly dedicated to them; That is the purpose of one of our amendments. Then comes the seventh art, which tries to resist despite the inconsistent measures taken towards it – closure, reopening, curfew, and then again closing. You have announced particularly welcome support measures, because we need a well-armed CNC to allow French cinema to resist this second confinement. This brings us to the major issue of the government's public audiovisual strategy. The steady downward trajectory that we have already set out in previous budgets continues this year; It's counterproductive. Indeed, how can we resist the American platforms, which have huge budgets and investments – 1 billion euros for Netflix for example – if we do not support it by encouraging French production of quality content, and in sufficient quantity? While advertising revenues are falling free – the loss is estimated at 55 million euros compared to the initial forecast – and while the crisis is causing additional costs, the public audiovisual industry has shown remarkable performance and rising audience rates. Whether France Télévisions, whose content productions are changing to match its objectives of proximity, inclusion and production of original works, Radio France, whose audience rates are increasing steadily, or Arte, which has gained 23% of listeners in three years thanks to its ambitious editorial policy, all are forced to do more and better with less. The decrease in the budget of 2.63% for the public audiovisual sector affects Radio France like France Télévisions, which is forced to cut its workforce by 20% by January 2023, which also strongly affects the French regional network, which is very much appreciated by the French. You defended the Government's strategy by answering in committee on the question of the abolitions of France 4 and France Ô. Let me remind you of the figures from the diversity barometer, published by the CSA – Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel – in 2019: by removing France Ô from the indexing field, people residing in the overseas departments and territories are only 0,4 % visible, while they represent 3,26% of the French population. This figure is eloquent; It shows that we need to put in place more legal obligations against all discrimination and ensure fair representation of women and diversity in the public audiovisual sector. [[Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout applauds]] The audiovisual sector needs an ambitious policy in order to achieve all the objectives set, and we obviously do not support the path you impose on it. The Socialist and related group will therefore not vote for these credits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u146	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u147	Today, we are looking at funding for the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission. The year 2020 was particularly difficult for all professionals in these fields; That is why we are witnessing with relief the strengthening of the means of the mission. These increases are to be linked to the massive effort made by the Government to support the sector during the health crisis, and to the specific sectoral plan initiated in the recovery plan. This effort is essential. Media and cultural industries are strategic; It is essential to allow them to live, to continue to produce, and above all to maintain a certain independence. Today we are experiencing a crisis of trust: false information is proliferating and the press is often disavowed and challenged. But this disavowal is not just the problem of the media; It threatens democracy, which can only live normally if citizens commit themselves and vote on the basis of reliable and verified information. In recent months there has been a decline in sales and subscriptions, as well as a collapse in advertising revenues. More generally, the crisis has revealed structural imbalances, which must be taken seriously and which we must correct in order to revive the sector. Our public policies have a decisive role to play. We must at all costs preserve the economic base of the media, to enable them to work in satisfactory conditions while maintaining a certain independence. This requires better respect for neighbouring rights and a fairer sharing of values between publishers and GAFAN – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Netflix. It is also necessary to accompany them in the digital transformation while ensuring the conditions for a consistent pluralism of democratic debate. In this context, the Action Together Group welcomes the Government's mobilization for the press, which has been translated into immediate aid measures and ambitious projects for the future. It is EUR 377 million that is put on the table to boost investment and promote transformations. In particular, we welcome the renewal in 2021 of the tax credit on press subscriptions. Beyond these essential measures for the survival of the sector, we must also think about the future of the press and its distribution. The whole value chain needs to be rethought in order to take account of the ecological transition and to increase public access to the press. In particular, the aim is to improve the work of sellers and to reflect on the reuse of unsold goods. That is essential, as the press sector is the heart of our democracy. We need a healthy, free, plural and diverse press – and sometimes crunchy, too. The quality of the public debate depends on it. Like the press, cultural industries must also be defended; the importance of this sector exceeds its sole economic weight. Our country's place makes France a separate nation, with a cultural exception that the world envys us. Like our economy as a whole, they are now experiencing very serious difficulties, and the Group of the European People's Party welcomes the considerable effort that has been made to support them. As a result, EUR 520 million was deployed in targeted support to the press, audiovisual media, book and cultural industries as a whole in 2020, mostly in the framework of the PLFR3. These accompanying measures continue today with strong new actions to accompany, but also to transform, these sectors in a sustainable manner. I am thinking in particular of the booksellers, those local traders who participate in the social bond and the life of the spirit in our country. It was necessary to give a definitive answer to the emotion of these professionals; That was the subject of the announcements you made yesterday, Madam Minister. During confinement, the management of online sales activities of bookstores aims to better support the sector during the crisis. It will also prepare for the future by helping these businesses achieve a sustainable transformation of their business, in line with the new cultural practices of the French. This measure complements the effort already made towards bookstores with an investment of €89 million between 2020 and 2022. Minister, the Action Together Group fully supports your engagement with the press and cultural industries. The challenges are immense, and we will have to meet them together. Colleagues, our group will support the adoption of the credits of the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission, which is fully involved in the defence of our model of cultural exception.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u148	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u149	"Open a book. [...] He destroys the scaffold, the war, the famine; He speaks, no more slaves and no more pariahs. These few words of Victor Hugo are unquestionably and more relevant than ever. They are first of all in those days when the enemies of our country and our civilization have again struck innocent people; These ignoble crimes reinforce my desire to transmit our culture and art, whose beauty unites us. They are then because the turmoil linked to the health crisis again deprives us of direct access to culture – bookstores, cinemas, theatres, concert halls. I hear, minister, and I understand that health decisions need to be made, which requires more than cornelian choices. But unfortunately it will be the web giants who will benefit from it and, as the holidays approach, we can only regret it. Nevertheless, I would like to invite our colleagues and fellow citizens to turn to bookstores that sell to take away or to those that have come together to set up a delivery system. Such arrangements must be developed in this difficult period, and I would like to express our appreciation for the Government's announcement regarding the handling of shipping costs. However, to return to the mission of "Media, books and cultural industries", the IDU and independent group welcomes the increase in its budget, and in particular the sustainability of certain aids for the press. We are particularly pleased that part of this aid concerns the territories and the overseas countries and territories more specifically. As you said in committee, the press sector was already experiencing many difficulties before the health crisis, which obviously did not improve its situation. Nearly EUR 289 million is provided for in the recovery plan to help it, but it will be necessary to consider the structural problems in the sector, which cannot be helped indefinitely. Particularly attentive to the accessibility of places of knowledge and culture, I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, about access to books and libraries from an early age. In this area, the social and territorial divide remains very visible. What actions could your ministry take to address this? With regard to public broadcasting, I have heard your comments in committee, while many of us have come back to the crucial role played by France 4 during confinement. I understand, of course, that we cannot make a chain for crises, and that the practices of young people are evolving in the audiovisual field, but I am not sure that digital practices are as widespread as you have suggested in some of the most disadvantaged areas where families do not have as many screens as children. In any event, as you have said, a reflection must be opened up on this. The French film industry, already weakened by the crisis, is facing a new financial disaster which affects operators, distributors and managers, due to the closure of the cinemas announced until 1 December. The State and the CNC remain at their bedside, and your recent announcement of €30 million in aid for the seventh art shows the willingness of the State to support it. However, Minister, a real question remains: opening, closing, cheque book, will this triptych save the cultural industries in the long term? Are vocations, in the field of culture, not in danger? As for the CNM, its rise in power transforms it into a window strengthening its backup and gauge compensation funds. It has distributed more than 50 million euros, and the vast majority of this manna benefits SMEs, TPEs and current music entrepreneurs. A €2 million envelope has been set aside for classical music, but I wonder whether the aid granted to this sector is less substantial than for the others, whereas it often represents 60 to 120 people per orchestra. [[Guy Bricout applauds]] As you can see, we keep many questions that will hold our attention. However, we approach the discussions in a favourable state of mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u150	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u151	As we said during the review of the "Culture" mission, the year 2020 was catastrophic for the actors of culture. As soon as they were reopened, the places where culture was created and disseminated were closed again, while they were barely recovering from the major damage caused by the first confinement – a 25% drop in sales, or 22.3 billion euros. In general, the Libertés et Territoires Group was rather in favour of the appropriations for this mission, aware of the efforts made, but also of the limits now inevitable, in the context of the reconstitution. The budget for the Press and Media programme is €8.2 million, while the budget for the Book and Cultural Industries programme is €10.8 million. However, despite emergency aid and credit increases, we cannot hide, like many, our concern for the book industry, at a time when bookstores are once again closed and penalized by competition from online sales. We are also concerned about the film sector, while all the taxes allocated to the CNC are expected to be €668 million, down from 2020. Finally, we are concerned about enterprises dependent on the cultural sector, which are not always affected by the aid measures. I am thinking, for example, of the communication companies responsible for the promotion of films in the theatre. We will propose an amendment to make them eligible for the Solidarity Fund. The media – and in particular the press – are not left behind. The health crisis has worsened the worrying situation in this sector, which has long been plagued by structural difficulties due, inter alia, to the erosion of paper-based broadcasting and an unfinished digital transition. In addition to this, the crisis in the distribution of the printed press sold to the number and the bankruptcy of Presstalis, which we announced and which only confirmed the concerns about the economic model of the sector. The outlets are also heavily affected, even though some of them remain open. In this context, our group can only welcome the creation of two new aids for pluralism: one of 2 million euros for ultramarine titles of political and general information; the other EUR 4 million for online press services. Although the previous three finance laws tended to stabilize the appropriations allocated to aid for pluralism, the budget for 2021 provided for an increase of 43% of the appropriations, which should be stressed. These aids are complemented by the creation of the tax credit on the first subscriptions to the political and general information press, an initiative which we approve even if we doubt certain implementing rules. I come to the black spot of this mission: the Government's strategy for public broadcasting. We do not understand that the downsizing and budget cuts, decided since 2018, continue in such a context. At the time, these decisions had already been taken in the absence of any strategy, without providing for any transition and accompaniment period. They were also taken without any concrete perspective on the reform of the contribution to the public audiovisual sector, which was made necessary by the abolition of the housing tax. In the light of the new situation, we therefore expected that budget cuts would be curbed. Since the beginning of the crisis, the public audiovisual service has in fact played more than its role in local information and education – the example of France 4 is particularly telling. We therefore plead for the maintenance of this channel, as we have done since the announcement in 2018 of its digital transition. A stay is the worst solution. Wouldn't creation need a long time? Wouldn't we still need linear television and digital terrestrial television – TNT – to reduce the fractures? Would not continuing to offer a channel for children without advertising be a priority? In addition, despite the good hearings, the revenues of the public audiovisual sector are severely affected. This is the case for France Télévisions, which lost slightly more than 30 million euros in advertising revenue between March and April 2020. The one-year postponement of the Olympic Games, which were scheduled to take place this summer, is expected to increase the shortfall by more than €10 million. This is also the case with our external audio-visual system, whose hearings are progressing as its resources contract. This is the case for France Médias Monde and TV5 Monde – the revenues of each of these companies are down from 1 to 2 million euros. In the absence of compensation, our public audiovisual sector suffers a scissor effect, taken between a sustainable economic crisis and a strategy of dangerous budgetary restrictions. We have already said that a budget must be at the service of a vision, an ambition. However, it is lacking for the public audiovisual sector. In fact, there are no more audiovisual projects! Our vote will therefore be unsurprising: in favour of the credits in increase of the mission "Media, book and cultural industries", but resolutely against those of the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual". [[Mrs Constance Le Grip applauds]] Finally, Madam Minister, I would like you to intervene to stop talking about essential or non-essential activities. After the little phrase about those people who cross stations, who succeed or are nothing, there is now this terrible semantic distinction. You who are attached to words, you know that they can also do a lot of damage. In this case, it is just unbearable for booksellers, authors and readers. I know you know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u152	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u153	While obscurantism seems to be gaining ground and allowing the nauseous ideologies to gradually innerve French society, we have a duty to do everything possible to sharpen the spirit of our fellow citizens, and to reaffirm the universal values that underpin our Republic. We cannot achieve this objective without an ambitious cultural policy that promotes artistic diversity by supporting creators and allows for the widest possible dissemination of works. This cultural policy necessarily includes the field of the press and the media, which must have sufficient means to carry out their work of information freely, without being subjected to political or economic pressure. The increase in aid to the press, provided for in programme 180, is beneficial in the current context, but it cannot compensate for the successive declines observed since the draft finance law for 2018. Such aid is insufficient to enable genuine pluralism. They will not prevent the erosion of the number of paid and free newspapers, or of weekly political and general news magazines. Beyond the question of the amounts allocated, it is our system of aid to the press that shows its limits, because these funds subsidize without counterpart a few large groups and banks that now own most of the press titles. Press aid must be rethought in order to allow the maintenance and creation of independent titles and guarantee freedom of editorial staff vis-à-vis financiers. This aid will have to be accompanied by measures to promote pluralism and to combat media concentration. As for the funds allocated to the National Book Centre – CNL – they remain constant However, we know the vital role that the CNL plays in promoting literary creation and the dissemination of works to the public. It allows artists-authors to free themselves from the economic model of profitability and to offer original content. This action in favour of literary creation must be better supported. Finally, if we are in favour of expanding the opening hours of libraries because they promote access to books, we do not accept that it should be done at the expense of librarians who are increasingly being asked to work in the evenings and weekends. As far as the public audiovisual sector is concerned, you are proposing to continue the austerity cure you launched two years ago: given inflation, the decrease in appropriations is 2.63% this year, after 3.36% last year and 2.56% the previous year. For France Télévisions, the consequences are particularly worrying, as this decrease in appropriations adds a loss of advertising revenue estimated at €55.1 million compared to the initial forecasts and significant additional costs associated with the health crisis. Many jobs are threatened. The CGT France Télévisions already reports a decrease of just over 600 full-time equivalent positions – FTEs – compared to June 30, 2019, representing a 6.81 % decrease in the number of staff in a single year. And we must expect these social plans to continue. Finally, the budgetary choices proposed by the Government appear to be in complete contradiction with the strategic orientations presented in the annual performance project – PAP. How to make France Télévisions a reference in terms of reliability, pedagogy and the perspective of events without providing it, for example, with the means necessary to finance investigative journalism too often sacrificed on the altar of immediacy and sensationalism? While the stated objective is to strengthen the anchor of France Télévisions among young audiences, by offering them programmes that are both ambitious, accessible and adapted to each age group, why programme the judgment of France 4, a channel that makes excellent audiences with young people? It doesn't make sense. Another incoherence: you say you want to triple the time devoted to regional programmes by 2022, in order to promote the representation of the territories, proximity, parity and inclusion, but you are putting an end to the dissemination of the programmes of France Ô at the beginning of September. We Members of the House of Commons in La France are of the opinion that the proposed budget does not meet the challenges and clearly lacks ambition. We shall therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u154	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u155	After the discussions we had this morning on the "Culture" mission, I think I can say that each and every one of us perceives the seriousness of the situation in the cultural sector and its ecosystem. The stakes are huge. If they are obviously budgetary, they also concern – and above all – our lives, our imaginations, the relationship we maintain with the works and that we need to push standards and open our horizons. The mission "Media, book and cultural industries" should also help to create new horizons. While efforts are being made in this area, particularly in the case of the online press, we will continue to repeat, year after year, that support for the press is to be thoroughly reviewed as the media are being riddled by concentration. Having pleaded last year for these aids to also benefit the online press, I am pleased to have been heard since this is the case this year. However, tax evasion by groups receiving aid to the press should be addressed, and greater transparency should be achieved. I come to the white year of intermittents and intermittents until August. In response to the questions you were asked this morning about a possible extension of these compensation fees, you replied, Madam Minister, that the decision would be made if necessary. For my part, it seems to me that the need is now obvious and that intermittents should be reassured. However, our main concern is the fate of this budget for the public service of the audiovisual sector, which you are continuing to reduce, with €70 million in public television and radio spending falling in 2021. During the confinement, everyone praised the work done by the agents of this public service. The more complex the information, the greater the distrust and the greater the need to spread the culture, the greater the capacity of these agents to work by being concerned about their public service mission. In the public audiovisual sector, however, we note that pressure is being exerted to speed up the movement of early departures. We might have thought that the missions of the public audiovisual sector are not compatible with the pursuit of these social plans and that, given the social crisis in our country, the measures of early departure in the public sector are not necessarily the most urgent to take, but despite the plans for recovery, the social plans follow in these public services which, at this time, will be the main channels for broadcasting live performances and the expression of artists. To justify the abolition of France Ô last summer, it was said that it would allow the overseas countries to have more visibility. In my opinion, it would have been necessary to do the opposite – to give more visibility to the overseas countries before deleting France Ô – because, for the moment, the result is not convincing. In the same vein, it was decided to abolish the FIP radio station in the region, although it was a channel to promote cultural life nearby. If the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left votes against this budget, it is therefore mainly because of the treatment given to the public audiovisual sector. In the field of cultural industries, you continue to focus on the brand new National Music Centre. At this stage, it is quite difficult to assess the effectiveness of this strategy, while expectations are immense, as demonstrated by the call made by the Syndicat des activités événements – SAE. This union represents artists as well as professionals in the technical professions of the stage – administrators, machinists, sound engineers and lights. Not all have the status of entertainers, some being independent, others self-entrepreneurs, and some still intermittent in employment. By the way, taking advantage of my intervention, I continue to call for the abolition of the reform of unemployment insurance. For lack of time, I do not address reading and libraries here, but I am sure that I will have the opportunity to talk about it at another time. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] As I have already indicated, the GDR Group will vote against the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u156	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u157	We are preparing to review the budget for the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission, as well as for the "Advances to Public Audiovisual" financial assistance account. With an increase of almost €20 million over 2020, the overall budget of the Media, Books and Cultural Industries mission is over €606 million. These appropriations, which are in sharp increase, illustrate the State's support for these sectors which are severely affected by the health crisis and are in line with the decisions already taken throughout this year. Indeed – I must remind you – 384 million euros have been voted in the third law of amending finance, in addition to the cross-cutting measures deployed by the State. This year, the budget for the Press and Media Programme 180 has increased by €8.2 million. The press sector is facing a double crisis: the structural crisis that has been raging for several months is now compounded by the health and economic crisis, which has led to the closure of many sales outlets. Presstalis had to file its balance sheet last April and a new structure, France Messagerie, was created to take over some of its activities. The Government also maintains support for the dissemination and modernization of the press, while support for pluralism is increasing considerably – by €7.1 million. As far as the media is concerned, the budget allocated to the AFP – Agence France-Presse – is falling in line with the trajectory set out in its objective and means contract, while the support fund for local radio expression is increasing by 1.3 million euros. These appropriations give concrete expression to the State's support for the press and media sectors, which play a role in informing citizens and disseminating ideas. We welcome the EUR 11.6 million increase in the appropriations for the 334 programme on books and cultural industries. In general, these credits give concrete expression to the State's commitment to encourage the diversity of cultural creation in France. They will be used primarily to strengthen the National Music Centre financially, with more than €7 million planned for next year. The CNM, which completed its structuring on 30 October, now has all the keys to serve and support the music industry in this particular context. The grant to HADOPI remains stable, at €8.6 million, to enable it to fight piracy and protect audiovisual works, which remain key issues as the digital revolution changes our practices and practices. I hope, Madam Minister, that we will be discussing very soon how to improve the fight against piracy. The appropriations for books and reading increase by EUR 4 million to modernise libraries, but also to encourage innovation in practice, for example through media and information education. Additional resources will also be deployed to facilitate the expansion of library opening times. The group La République en marche welcomes yesterday's announcement of the State's assumption of the cost of sending books ordered from independent bookstores during the new confinement. This unprecedented measure will help booksellers to continue their activities by developing online sales. Finally, with regard to the public audiovisual sector, the budget is in line with the transformation plan launched in 2018. However, we welcome the EUR 10 million reduction in the overall economic effort, which was granted to take account of the maintenance of the France 4 channel until the summer of 2021. With regard to the future of youth programmes, I shall propose, by amendment, the submission of a report assessing the expenditure incurred by France Télévisions in respect of youth programmes, education and animation, both linear and non-linear, before the judgment of France 4. In addition, the Government has pledged to compensate for the consequences of the health crisis by providing, in the recovery plan, exceptional support of €70 million for the years 2021 and 2022. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Minister, Members of the La République Group will be at your side to continue to reflect on piracy and audiovisual regulation as well as on the future of the contribution to the public audiovisual sector, to which you know that we are very committed. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the budgets proposed for the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" as well as for the financial assistance "Advances to the public audiovisual sector" mark the State's support for the various sectors shaken by the crisis. The La République group will, of course, vote in favour of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u158	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u159	First of all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to commend the quality of the work carried out by the rapporteurs and the light they have given us in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. How difficult it is to examine this budget today, when it can easily be assumed that next year will also be rhythmic by many draft amending finance laws, at the pace of confinements and deconfinations! We are going through a turbulent period, which also affects the media, the book industry and the cultural industries. At the test of the current situation, I will first have a word for the book sector: for a week, it is with a pinch in the heart that we see our bookstores close, they mesh our territory, they make us dream and in the rays in which the French like to wander. As you know, Minister, calls for their reopening are increasing. Local bookstores, which have been organized and equipped, can perfectly accommodate readers in safe and proven sanitary conditions. Ensuring the health security of the French is essential, but we struggle to understand how buying a book in a bookstore would increase the risk of contamination compared to buying a yogurt within a hypermarket radius. The lack of understanding is all the more so since the months of November and December represent about 25% of the annual turnover of bookstores, which are the heartbeat of the entire book chain. The Government's decision appears to be particularly difficult after a spring in which bookstores lost 95 per cent of their sales for two months, even though the miraculous summer and the beginning of the school year made it possible to catch up with much of this delay. The awarding of literary prizes at the beginning of November also plays, in normal times, a key role in end-of-year sales, with books awarded by the Prix Goncourt, Renaudot, Femina or Medici often found themselves under the fir tree. For the time being, most of the support for the book chain in 2021 is included in the "Relaunch Plan" mission, with €53 million in commitment authorisations and €29.5 million in payment appropriations. Will the investment be sufficient – and above all, how will it be distributed among the actors of the book? In the context of the new confinement, we can only be dubious, despite the announcement made last night of the State taking over the costs of shipping books sold by independent bookstores, to promote distance selling. This provision remains insufficient since many bookstores are lagging behind in digitalisation. The year 2021 will also be a new year of upheaval for the media, hard hit by the crisis linked to the covid-19. Unfortunately, as in the finance laws for 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Government has again chosen to plan public audiovisual holdings. In the draft budget for 2021, the breakdown of these efforts results in a general decline: 60 million euros for France Télévisions, 8 million euros for Radio France, 2.1 million euros for Arte and 600,000 euros for France Médias Monde. Only TV5 Monde remains stable, while the INA benefits from an increase of 1.6 million euros. The previous PLFs – 2018, 2019 and 2020 – were already experiencing substantial declines: in a government arbitration rendered in the summer of 2018, it was expected that public resources allocated to France Télévisions would fall by 160 million euros between 2018 and 2022. This target will be exceeded by 2021. We therefore wonder about the content of the future draft budget that will apply in 2022 to the group France Télévisions: will it be down again or will it comply with the commitments made by the Government in 2018? I would like to take this opportunity to point out, as I do every year consistently, what a scandal is the misuse of the so-called tax. Copé on telecom operators, which, in 2019, was permanently diverted to the state budget, to the detriment of France Télévisions. Even François Hollande had not gone that far! The Copé tax thus totally escapes France Télévisions, whereas it was precisely created in 2009 to compensate for the abolition of evening advertising on the operator's channels. These budget cuts are in a difficult context, with an unprecedented health crisis, but also the halting of the reform of the public audiovisual sector, which was to lead to the creation of the France Médias holding company. We still look forward to many details about the future of the French public audiovisual industry, whether it be its administrative form, budget, timetable or resources. I will mention again the question of the future of France 4, which received a late suspension until August 2021, after having proved – if it was still necessary – its usefulness during confinement by offering educational programmes. All sectors of the cultural industries have been affected, particularly cinema, concerned about the reconfinition and already heavily penalized by the postponements of many films, despite the CNC's support. I will finally mention the situation of the press in France. Press aid increases after a period of decline, notably thanks to the creation of two new schemes: a specific aid for pluralism of €2 million for ultramarine securities and €4 million for online press services. I am pleased that this sector is severely affected by the crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In conclusion, for all these reasons, Members of the Republican Group will abstain from this budgetary task.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u160	Mr Luc Geismar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u161	I will begin my remarks by stressing the satisfaction of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats with the increase in the appropriations allocated to the mission "Media, books and cultural industries". The increase in funding for the Press and Media and Book and Cultural Industries programmes will make it possible to sustain policies dedicated to press support, book policies and the cultural industry. While the crisis we have been experiencing since March and the reconstitution have struck these sectors, we had to react strongly to support them. The democratic health of a country is measured in particular by the diversity and quality of its media. In France, we have the chance to benefit from a plural press that is recognised by all. We therefore welcome the significant increase in the number of visits to news and information sites: this indicator is a sign that the press is increasingly – and increasingly – taking advantage of the digital tool, but also that citizens are increasingly taking ownership of these media. At a time when misinformation is spreading, it is reassuring to see that information sites are gaining users. Within the "Press and Media" programme, we particularly welcome the increase of almost 16% in the "Support for local media". The latter have been particularly tested by containment, but also by other problems, both cyclical and structural. The local press had to be supported in order to continue its work of general interest. We regret, however, that the digital transition of the local press is not further supported and accompanied. The Group of the Democratic Movement and Related Democrats will therefore defend an amendment aimed at better accompanying the PQR – regional daily press – in its digital transition. With regard to the "Book and Cultural Industries" programme, we approve of the support given to the book sector and in particular to the neighbourhood bookstores. We are therefore in favour of the allocation of deconcentrated appropriations to ensure the maintenance and development of a dense and varied network of bookstores, for two reasons. On the one hand, the existence of independent bookstores spread throughout the territory is likely to promote cultural diversity and should enable as many citizens as possible to access reading. On the other hand, we fully share the method of deconcentrating appropriations so that they can be allocated as closely as possible to the territories and adapted to local needs. Finally, we fully support the measures to support the independent bookstores announced yesterday. The assumption of their costs of shipping books to promote their distance sales is indeed welcome, it meets a strong demand from our fellow citizens to be able to buy their books in local shops. I will conclude by referring to the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector". We are pleased that the transformation plan for the sector remains a priority, that the resources allocated respect the trajectory defined in 2018 and, good news, that the budgetary effort allows the continuation of the France 4 chain in 2021. As for the support given to culture in the recovery plan – one of the few European recovery plans to take into account, I would remind you, the cultural sector! – it should enable public audiovisual societies to support the audiovisual, artistic and cultural ecosystem in this crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats will vote for the media, books and cultural industry mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u162	The Minister for Culture now has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u163	Like the mission "Culture", which we examined this morning, the mission "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" will see a significant increase in its budget, which I thank Mr. Geismar for having praised. With an increase of 3.2%, it has 19 million euros of new resources, from which all sectors, in particular the press, books, audiovisual and cinema, will benefit. The action taken by the Ministry of Culture to support the cultural industries will also be based on the exceptional funding mobilised under the France Recovery plan, amounting to €428 million over two years, most of which will be €347 million from 2021 onwards. This unprecedented mobilisation will highlight the cultural channels, which have been severely affected – and I agree with Marie-Ange Magne's analysis on this point – as the health crisis has particularly affected them, as the reconfinition continues to do. In this respect, I am thinking in particular of cinema which, since the beginning of the crisis, has received specific support, constantly adapted to the changing health situation. Beyond the emergency measures for the players in this sector last spring, we have encouraged the resumption of activity by setting up an insurance and guarantee fund, financed by the State to the tune of 50 million euros, so that the filming can take place again. Since September, the cinema has received €80 million in new aid, especially for distributors, as well as for cinemas because of the restrictions on their attendance. In order to ensure a sustainable and sustainable recovery of the film industry, the cultural component of the recovery plan includes an envelope of 165 million euros for all its players, in addition, of course, to the usual resources of the CNC – which will remain stable in 2021. The means that we will mobilise in 2021 are not only aimed at responding to immediate difficulties, but also at preparing for recovery and must enable us to make an important effort to consolidate and modernise cultural channels, faced with structural difficulties exacerbated by the health crisis. In 2021, all of the Mission's programmes will contribute, starting with the "Press and Media" programme, which Céline Calvez and Benoit Potterie mentioned. The budget for this programme will grow by 2.9 per cent, and these new and sustainable means will be integrated into the press sector plan presented by the President of the Republic to the profession on 27 August, with €483 million over the period 2020-2022. The financing of this massive modernisation plan is based on the LFR3 of 2020 and the recovery plan, which provide very important means to support the transformation of the sector. The new measures included in the PLF will allow for the introduction of new aid for pluralism, one for the online political and general news media services – 4 million euros per year – and the other for the ultramarine press – 2 million euros. The "Book and Cultural Industries" programme, which many of you have mentioned, will next year see an increase in its resources of 3.5%, an increase of EUR 10.8 million. In addition to the measures concerning the music industry, which I have already mentioned during the presentation of the Culture mission this morning, these new appropriations will finance the completion of the restoration site of the Richelieu site of the BNF, and the opening of EUR 30 million in commitment authorisations to launch the construction of a new storage centre for the latter – I have already received several dozen applications for this purpose and the centre is expected to be operational in 2027. The book sector will also benefit from a total plan of €89 million over three years, financed both by the Third Amending Finance Act and the Recovery Plan, one of the main objectives of which is to support the activity of bookstores and libraries. Don't worry, Mrs. Frédérique Dumas: the book is obviously essential. Let us not confuse the philosophical conception of the book with its administrative conception, which places it among occasional purchases rather than among daily purchases, but that is the difference. It is also regrettable that large readers now account for only 14% of French... and that they buy an average of one pound per month. But, I repeat, a book is obviously essential. I now turn to the financing of the public audiovisual sector, which will follow the trajectory set in 2018. Mrs Elsa Faucillon, Mr Michel Larive and Mrs Frédérique Dumas regret this, but I will have the opportunity to explain this. The public audiovisual financial assistance account will be EUR 3.72 billion in 2021, while the amount of the public audiovisual contribution to which our citizens will pay will remain stable at EUR 138 million. The €80 million savings required by public audiovisual companies as part of an ambitious transformation strategy was reduced by €10 million to take account of the extension until the summer of 2021 of the linear broadcast of France 4. I note in passing that we will obviously have to think about what we need in this area for our young people – I have had the opportunity to explain this to the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. I would add that the recovery plan will provide the public audiovisual sector, and Mrs Beatrice Piron welcomed this, with exceptional financial support of EUR 70 million to compensate for the impact of the health crisis and to preserve its ability to invest in creation. I would like to point out that this specific envelope is not worth canceling the financial effort required of public audiovisual companies – a mere coincidence of numbers – but responds to a one-time and imperative need in a crisis context. You also know, ladies and gentlemen, that a wide-ranging reflection on the resources of this sector must be carried out because of the total abolition by 2023 of the housing tax, which is backed up by the contribution to the public audiovisual sector. This work has begun, and I would like to deepen it with all the Members, whom I know very carefully about this important issue, in particular the chairman of your Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, Mr Bruno Studer. The year 2021 will also see the culmination of a major evolution of our system of financing audiovisual and cinematographic creation, which will allow French actors in these fields to access new resources. I would like to commend Parliament's work in transposing the Audiovisual Media Services Directive into the framework of the DDADE bill. You have testified to your unanimous desire to integrate digital passports targeting the French public into our contribution system for creation, and we will move forward with determination in this direction. This real revolution will be effective in the coming months and will allow us to re-engineer and restructure our model by adapting it to the new balances between media and digital players. Mrs Béatrice Descamps stressed that one could not only find one-off reasons for difficulties which are certainly cyclical, but also really structural, whose crisis was only a revealing one. So now I want to talk about the future strategy for the cultural and creative industries. This strategy, financed to the tune of EUR 400 million over five years under the fourth investment programme for the future, will also be supported in 2021 thanks to the EUR 19 million included in the recovery plan. Through this unprecedented approach, which will bring together all cultural channels, including heritage, visual arts and live entertainment, around common objectives, culture is fully recognized as a strategic sector, along with hydrogen or artificial intelligence. The means we will use to support cultural actors will help accelerate the digital transition of the entire sector and thus prepare for the future. This will include the development of innovative cultural projects, such as the dissemination of live performances or the deployment of new tools for valuing heritage, which will offer new ways to reach all audiences, as well as to strengthen the position of French cultural actors in a context of strong international competition. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the budget for the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission will enable us to take ambitious action next year to consolidate our cultural channels, take a step ahead of future developments and embark on a decisive step: that of modernising our policy of access to culture for the benefit of all the public.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u164	We come to the questions – in this case, there will be only one. Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u165	Madam Minister, as my colleagues have pointed out, the mission "Media, books and cultural industries", as well as the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector", benefit from a substantial budget, a symbol of the Government's strong commitment to supporting these sectors in this difficult time of crisis. With regard to associative radios, the support fund for local radio expression, which helps almost 700 of them, has not only been renewed, but also abounded with more than EUR 1 million. This increase in resources will support associative radio stations, which play a major role in maintaining the social link and contribute to the promotion of the cultural specificities of each territory. Similarly, all independent radio stations have a key role to play in maintaining media and information pluralism, as well as in the discovery of new talent. However, the health crisis has led to the collapse of their advertising revenues, which represented up to 90 per cent of their resources, which also endangers the promotion of the entire music industry. In the absence of advertising revenues, shows and concerts, many of them could come to operate in degraded mode, or even close next year if we do not accompany them. Under the Third Amending Finance Act, an exceptional €30 million fund to support radio and digital broadcasting for private radio and local television was set up and welcomed by the stakeholders. But beyond this measure, it is the sustainability of these radios, from the point of view of their economic model, that must be questioned today. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – The draftswoman for opinion also applauds]] Madam Minister, in the light of the increases in appropriations for the two missions examined this morning and this afternoon, can you reaffirm that the state intends to support the private radio stations which, in 2021, are at risk of seriously lacking their structural revenues, and tell us what is planned to accompany them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u166	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u167	Indeed, the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" enjoys a substantial budget, proof of the considerable effort that the Government devotes to the accompaniment of the associative radio stations which, as you recalled, participate in the pluralism and balance of the French radio landscape and in the maintenance of the social link. The Government has thus sought to strengthen the funds of the Radio Expression Support Fund – FSER – in particular to cope with the steady increase in the number of eligible radio stations authorized by the CSA to broadcast in FM and DAB+. The allocation of the scheme is increased to €32 million in the PLF for 2021, up 4%. This historically high level of support is a sign of the Government's desire to promote the development of a successful mechanism and to support the sometimes fragile economy of actors in the voluntary sector. In addition, it is envisaged that the system of the FSER will be modified in 2021 to take account, in applying the criteria, of the special circumstances experienced by radio associations during the health crisis. With regard to independent local radio stations, as you recall, LFR 3 provided for the creation of an exceptional fund of EUR 30 million to support the broadcasting of radio and digital broadcasting of private and local television stations, which it had to compensate for the loss of advertising revenue. The objective was to set up an emergency fund providing one-off aid to actors justifying a decrease in turnover over the period from 1 January to 30 June 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. The decree setting out the parameters of this aid, differentiated according to the type of media concerned – FM radio, DAB+, local channel of the TNT – is being finalized. It is the subject of discussions with the European Commission and the first payments will begin very soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u168	We're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u169	I call the credits of the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission, listed in state B. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor to support Amendment No 2467 – which I believe you would like to present together with the following amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u170	Not quite, Mr. President; If I may, I will present each amendment separately.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u171	[[Smile]] It was a good attempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u172	But to please you, Mr President, I will withdraw one of the following amendments! Press aid was introduced in France at the end of the 18th century to encourage free communication of thoughts among citizens. Originally intended only for publications of general interest, they now benefit large groups, sometimes owned by very rich owners. It's more than time to put things down! A new 30% tax credit for subscriptions to a political and general news newspaper, voted in July, will still cost the state an additional 60 million per year; new aid for pluralism has been voted; 18 million a year will also accompany the reform of the printing press – in short, more and more aid for mainly the largest groups. Madam Minister, if you welcome the increase in aid to the press, that is not my case! These aids, both direct and indirect – I stress the importance of the seconds – prevent the emergence of a press that meets the expectations of the French. Too many newspapers are under perfusion from the state and thus survive only by the will of the state. If a number of newspapers are not read or read more, they must disappear and allow the emergence of new titles. Super reduced VAT to 2.1% is one of those indirect aids which are no longer justified. We need to rethink how the State supports a renewed press in its diversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u173	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u174	Your amendment proposes to delete EUR 70 million of press aid. I can only disagree with this proposal: to abolish aid to the press is to abolish tomorrow dozens of daily newspapers that make our democracy and pluralism live. Press aid is only partly – about 40 million euros – for press publishers. A large part of the aid goes to distributors, colporteurs, kiosquiers and newspaper merchants – you mention it in your next amendment – and to the new France Messagerie broadcasting company. The press crisis is not due, as you suggest, to the fact that no one reads it, but to the fact that digital is inexorably replacing paper. It is therefore necessary to support the actors in this transition. The State finances newspapers as different as Humanity, Current Values or Opinion; I therefore feel that our press is independent. Personally, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u175	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2461.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u176	It's an appeal amendment. You have just pointed out, Madam rapporteur: to remove EUR 50 million of direct aid to the press would make it possible to reinvest at least part of it with the newsstands, which close one after another, depriving the French of familiar landmarks. This aid would be all the more welcome since kiosquiers are often the last links of an endangered social life in many of our small communes, along with buralists or bakers. However, there is a constant precarisation of the trade, carried out by poor workers, who work an average of 70 hours a week for a wage of around 1300 euros – and yet, half of the professionals do not reach this figure, hit by the drop in sales of paper newspapers. Although, since 2017, you have implemented a plan to support media dealers, it is necessary to strengthen this allocation. Supporting these professions is like supporting the local business: it's maintaining neighbourhood life and promoting social ties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u177	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u178	I find it difficult to understand your willingness to defend the kiosquiers while you also want to remove the press aid, as the link between the two is obvious. Newspaper merchants, who – as you said – have indeed suffered a great deal, receive strong support from the Government. The figures show this: EUR 19 million in LFR 3 for newspaper merchants, especially those who suffered from social movements linked to the disappearance of Presstalis; EUR 6 million in the sector plan for the modernisation of newspaper merchants; 6 million more enrolled in the 180 programme. Personally, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u180	Pure and perfect opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u181	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2466.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u182	I would like to look back on the argument put forward by the Special Rapporteur. To remove aid to the press is not to abolish the press, but to promote a press that meets the expectations of the readers, who would no longer need to be subsidized by the state! It's not the same thing. When media titles are oversubsidized because they no longer or almost have readers, this poses a problem of independence – to which journalists are fiercely attached. How can a press title subsidized by more than 50 per cent by the state keep an independent editorial line?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u183	The facts contradict you, Madame Ménard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u184	Amendment No 2466 is also an appeal amendment. The issue of subsidies to the press is thorny, as there is no real visibility in this area, except for a few examples such as the AFP. In support of my amendment, I will quote the Court of Auditors' report, which is particularly explicit: "We must stress the great complexity of the tax expenditure linked to the press, their low readability for citizens, the difficulty of assessing their impact". It would therefore be appropriate for the Government to provide Parliament with a report detailing all the direct and indirect aids – the most contentious ones – in order to give us an overview of the benefits that the press actually benefits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u186	I am not opposed in principle to the evaluation of the arrangements and Parliament must play its role. On the other hand, the timetable does not seem appropriate to me: while the press has suffered a great deal and is in a difficult situation, this is clearly not the right time to go back to the aid for it. Unfavorable notice – again in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u188	Unfavorable, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u189	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2460.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u190	I don't expect a favourable opinion either, but I'm still going to start. The press, I have just said, cannot be independent when it is mostly financed by the state. The aim here is to abolish direct aid to the press, which is, I stress, only a drop of water in the ocean of aid received by the press. The print media sector comprises approximately 3350 companies, employs 59,000 people, including 21,000 journalists, and publishes 8,000 titles; Its turnover, which exceeded EUR 10 billion in 2000, is now only 7.5 billion. I will give you the rest of the figures, but here is what the Court of Auditors says: "In relation to these figures, the total amount of aid received by the sector is high in absolute terms and represents an increasing proportion of its turnover. » In addition, the growing concentration of press companies is only very partially taken into account by the Government for its subsidies. The actual needs of newspapers vary greatly depending on whether or not they are backed by industrial groups. France is the country of Europe that helps its press the most. How far will we go? When do we get 100% subsidized press titles? Even then, I suppose, we'll continue to pretend that they're independent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u192	For the same reasons as before, on a personal basis, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u193	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u194	Unfavorable opinion. [[Smile]] Madame Ménard, when we look at the French print press, we cannot call it a government singer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u195	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u196	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u197	And that whatever the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u198	This proves that the aid allows pluralism. The press is used to settling its account with the Government, and it is right to do so if it believes it is right, with complete independence. You wish, say yourself, a press corresponding to the wishes of the readers. But precisely, given the diversity of the press as it is, which encompasses all the ideological fields represented today, everyone can find there the title that suits him. To respond to the wishes of readers is to make them as wide an offer as possible. It can be said that this offer is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u199	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u200	Finally, to limit itself to the criterion of pure and hard readership is to reinforce the very large editions and the newspapers with the greatest circulation. The aid to the press allows us to maintain newspapers that represent all the ideological currents, whether we agree with them or not. I do not share the commitments of Humanity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u201	[[Smile]] You're wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u202	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups – Stéphane Peu applause also]] ... but I will fight to the end for this title to remain in the kiosks, because that is freedom, that is a plural ideological offer, and I am happy that we continue to help a newspaper with ideological options far from mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u203	You can also read it, to change yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u204	But I'm reading it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u205	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u206	Minister, having myself been a journalist for years, I am totally in your reasoning. Mrs Ménard, I often praise your ability to work, but this time I do not agree with you: the press needs to be helped to ensure its transfer. If you abolish the aid to the press today, it will no longer be possible to carry out this change, especially by keeping journalists' jobs. The press is also a whole industry and employees that must be taken into account. If, tomorrow, Humanity no longer has subsidies, the newspaper will not be replaced directly by another title, it does not work that way. Let us accompany the transformation, especially towards digital, of our daily newspapers! On the other hand, the minister – this is the only grievance to make –, support a little more the PQR – regional daily press – less aided than the major national daily newspapers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u207	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u208	Minister, I hear your argument perfectly. But the system of aid as currently practised in France by the Government prevents the emergence of new titles; That's what I mean when I think we have to go to the readership. Your system always favours the same big newspapers, other titles, which would like to see the light of day in our country, cannot do so, competing with those who receive exorbitant subsidies from the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u209	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2463.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u210	This is still an appeal amendment, but my last amendment, because I am withdrawing Amendment No 2462. This mission is the tip of the iceberg. In reality, the press receives support and benefits that are not included in these programmes. In addition to direct aid, the press in France receives transport aid, commercial aid and favourable tax and social provisions. This aid accounts for 47% of the turnover of the press. In other words, the press is financed almost 50% by the French government. The Court of Auditors has recommended more than once that more transparency be given on the situation of the press. In its analysis note on the implementation of the 2019 budget, its first recommendation is to repatriate the appropriations dedicated to the support of postal transport from the press programme 134 "Business and tourism development" to the programme 180 "Press and media". One wonders what support for the transport of the press has to do with the development of enterprises and tourism. In addition, certain commercial practices must be prohibited. This is the case, for example, of promotional offers using super-reduced press VAT for objects unrelated to the press and improperly presented as gifts. The press has many features that need to be reviewed and adapted. There is a need for real substantive work in order to review our media system as a whole. Many benefits and subsidies are either not justified or no longer warranted. Rebalancing will have the effect, although indirect but nevertheless virtuous, of encouraging the arrival of new entrants, of promoting pluralism and thus democracy. All my requests are also made by the Court of Auditors: I refer you to its last report on the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u212	There is one point on which I agree with you, Mrs Ménard: I also want the repatriation of postal transport aids from Program 134 to Program 180. I asked for this last year by way of amendment and already the previous year. A reflection is under way to promote portage and gradually reduce postal transport, which is not satisfactory: it is probably necessary to move forward in this direction, or even accelerate. For the rest, the same opinion as before: there is no free press if it is not supported. Unfavorable notice in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u213	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 2561.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u214	With this appeal amendment, we would like to denounce the current system of aid to the press, because it does not guarantee through the pluralism indispensable for the functioning of our democracy. Unlike Mrs Ménard, we consider that this aid is insufficient to allow pluralism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u215	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u216	Moreover, aid to the press is not conditional on the safeguarding of jobs. We propose the creation of a budgetary programme entitled "Press Pluralism", the funds of which would, because of the budgetary mechanisms, be taken from those of the action "Press Aids". Madam Minister, if a certain press does not spare you, and we do not, there are still a few continuous news channels that defend you fiercely, especially through the voice of certain columnist with red scarfs who does not miss any opportunity to sing your praises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u217	He doesn't have the right to exist either?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u219	Without going back to the arguments put forward earlier, the current system of aid to the press already guarantees pluralism. Unfavorable notice in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u221	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It may happen, Mr. Larive, that some misguided commentators support the Government. You cited an example. Does he have the right to exist, I wonder?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u222	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2650.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u223	The aim of this amendment is to draw €7.162 million from the Press and Media programme to abound the "Book and Cultural Industries" programme. Why is that amount? Because this is exactly the significant increase in appropriations for press aid between 2020 and 2021, an increase of 6.5%. These new appropriations allow, in particular, new support for pluralism for online press services or ultramarine titles. There is no question, as you will have understood, of opposing the introduction of these aids; This amendment makes it possible to highlight this sharp increase. As we know, support for the print press is essential, especially since the sector has suffered in recent months, but this support cannot be unconditional; It must be accompanied by an evaluation, control and, in accordance with freedom of the press, perhaps certain conditions. We have already discussed in this House the subject of the counterpart of the recovery plan: environmental, social and societal counterpart. Progress has been made within the framework of the "Relaunch Plan" mission, in particular for greater equality between women and men in the companies to be assisted. It is on this issue of equality that I have worked on the mission entrusted to me by the Prime Minister on the position of women in the media in times of crisis, but ultimately at all times. I was able to see the under-representation of women in the media, and that is why I proposed the introduction of an equalization of media support. This can be in the form of a bonus – counterbalanced by a malus – for the media that ensure the fair representation of women in organizations and content. This is also what this increase in press aid appropriations could be for in 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u224	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u225	The aim of this amendment is to warn about societal responsibility for press releases. I obviously agree with Céline Calvez, whose involvement on this subject I know. We need to pay great attention to gender equality in the media, and to include targets in the new conventions seems to me to be a relevant idea, but I let the minister respond. It'll be a withdrawal request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u226	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u227	I thank Céline Calvez for her excellent work on equality between women and men. This should be done in the press at all levels, be it the subjects dealt with, the management bodies, the structuring of employment. This is one of the issues at stake in the framework agreements signed with press publishers; Twenty-two have already been signed, with concrete and quantified commitments. The addition of gender parity in press companies should be included in the decree on the strategic fund – one of your proposals, which I have taken up as part of its next reform. On the other hand, with regard to parity in content, I invited the editors of the press, at the meeting organised by the newspaper L'Humanité – decidedly, you see how open I am –...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u228	It's a very big newspaper!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u229	... meeting where all the press, national and PQR, were, to enter the path of voluntary commitments, which seems to me to be more appropriate in the matter. You stressed that this budget reflects a real effort by the state to support the press, and I thank you for that. I think we're more in collaborative work. If you could withdraw your amendment, that would be good.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u230	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor to support Amendment No. 2334.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u231	The aim of this amendment is to point out the digital offer of the PQR, which has been strengthened both in response to its difficulties and in order to better meet the expectations of readers. However, not all press releases were able to complete this digital transition. Our PQR is a little behind the national press. That is why we are asking 500,000 euros – not much – to support the digital transition of the PQR, which needs it. The national press and the major daily newspapers benefit, and so much better for them, from a larger subsidy than the entire PQR.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u233	The regional press obviously suffered from the crisis, like the national press. They will not be forgotten by the support plan: 8 million euros have already come to the aid of the most fragile press publishers in the law of amending finance 3. Regional press releases can also benefit from additional funding from the Strategic Press Development Fund, the FSDP, which will reach almost 50 million euros. Finally, the regional press receives an additional €3 million from the 180 programme – this increase in appropriations is therefore sustainable and sustainable. In my personal capacity, I therefore give an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u235	I understand the rather symbolic call for an additional 500,000 euros for the PQR, because it is an issue of pluralism and dynamism of the territories; But I put this sum in parallel with the massive aid to the PQR, which amounts to tens of millions of euros: 2.9 million aid for pluralism, porting aid, the strategic fund, which mainly benefits the regional and local press... Within the framework of the press sector plan, it is an exceptional support of €50 million over two years for the strategic fund and €36 million over two years for the restructuring of the press printing industry in the region. The figures are considerable, it will be to use these funds, to have projects. Why not present in the fourth investment programme for the future – PIA 4 – a project that could be interesting? In any case, the aid is already massive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u236	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u237	It was, I think everyone would have understood, an appeal amendment to make a close-up on the RQP. As much as it is normal to support the national daily newspapers that we need – we talked about Humanity, but there are others, La Croix, Le Figaro, Le Monde, Libération, and I'm passing – as much as we need to have a focus on the PQR, which has suffered enormously in recent years and which must be supported, because it is also a way of seeing new media emerge in our regions, as Mrs Ménard wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u238	Amendment No 2462 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard was withdrawn. I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 2560.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u239	We propose to transfer the credits from HADOPI, to allow the creation of an online public media library. This will allow us to defend our cultural sovereignty through an online legal offer platform of music, films and cultural content.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u240	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u241	Your amendment withdraws the public subsidy to HADOPI to create a legal offer platform. The issue of copyright is fundamental: artists must be guaranteed that their work is well remunerated. In addition, platforms need to be more monitored to ensure that these copyrights are respected. I am surprised to see France unsuspectingly defending the same positions as YouTube or Facebook. Finally, the new task entrusted to HADOPI by the draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law is a step in this direction welcomed by many artists. Unfavorable notice in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u242	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u243	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u244	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u245	Madam Special Rapporteur, I assure you, I am an ardent defender of copyright, at least as much as you. I was in agreement with the amendment which was not defended by Mr Masséglia, which also raises the question of HADOPI. We are many on these benches, and not only in France, to question ourselves: when we see the results of HADOPI, we can wonder whether it is appropriate to maintain this device.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u246	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 2175.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u247	The Solidarity Fund is a very important tool for cultural industries. Unfortunately, cultural-related companies cannot benefit from it. For example, communications companies in charge of the promotion of cinema films are now being reduced or stopped due to the increasing deprogramming and closure of cinemas. We propose to create a new programme entitled "Extension of Access to the Solidarity Fund for Related Enterprises in the Cultural Sector". Our intention is, of course, not to reduce the funds allocated to support the press, but to draw the Government's attention to the possibility of extending the solidarity fund to enterprises which are not considered to be cultural industries but which depend on it. It should be recalled that the evolution of the system can only take place in a regulatory way.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u249	Your amendment proposes to create a 50 million programme to make communication companies eligible for the Solidarity Fund. The mission "Emergency plan in the face of the economic and health crisis" is administered by the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. As far as the cultural sector is concerned, it is therefore not financed by funds from the "Culture" or "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" missions. Unfavorable notice in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u251	I confirm that arts, literary and communication agencies specializing in the promotion of cinema films can benefit from the strengthening of the solidarity fund. They are, in fact, considered to be distribution undertakings. If there is regulatory ambiguity, it will be removed. The position of the Government is perfectly clear. Your amendment is useless, Mrs Dumas. It was useful, however, for me to lift the ambiguity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u252	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u253	This amendment – in fact an appeal amendment – was not useless, since it allowed us to obtain that clarification. A number of companies still feel that they are not eligible for this scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u254	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2541.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u255	This amendment tabled on the initiative of my colleague Sylvie Tolmont and co-signed by the members of the Socialist and Related Group calls for additional resources to extend the support fund for community-based social information media adopted under the LF3. I will not repeat the very convincing arguments put forward by Florence Provenier and several other colleagues on the essential role of local television and radio. Jobs lost as a result of the crisis have not been replaced and the sector is struggling to regain momentum. The concerns of the actors are great. Sylvie Tolmont told us about the radio stations in her constituency in the Sarthe, whose turnover has fallen sharply. Everyone has seen this phenomenon in their territory. With this amendment, we call for the continuation, beyond LFR 3, of support for local social information media and radio broadcasting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u256	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u257	Local radio and television have suffered a great deal from the loss of advertising revenues and their demands have immediately been taken into account. LFR 3 has opened up EUR 30 million for the costs of broadcasting local independent radio and television. The decree determining the conditions for granting aid will be published in January 2021. The aid will be granted at that time. I would like to let the minister clarify the terms and conditions for a possible carry-over of these appropriations. I invite you to withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u258	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u259	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u260	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u261	This amendment deserves support and I will vote for it. If nothing is done, local radio stations could lose up to 27000 euros each and 700 jobs. The recent increase in programme 180 of the 2021 finance bill does not take into account the impact of the health crisis on this sector and will not make it possible to change the situation. These additional and limited appropriations are intended to strengthen the support fund for local radio expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u262	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2538.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u263	It also concerns radios. Could you explain to us how the appropriations provided for in the future decree are to be carried over? The world of associative radios is very diverse, since it includes commercial radios and associative radios. The latter are currently experiencing significant difficulties. I was contacted recently by the radio officers of the social centre of my municipality. They do a remarkable job and are now very worried. Radios gathered within the Syndicat des radios indépendants – SIRTI – occupy a dominant position, but the other radios operate according to a different model and demand that a small part of the 30 million fund supporting radio broadcasting FM and DAB+ be chosen in their favour. At present, they are unable to benefit from this fund and are pressing for us in the territories. Local and associative radios are very useful; We want to make sure that they will not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u264	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u265	Unfavorable notice in a personal capacity, for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u266	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u267	I have already spoken on this subject. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u268	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 2540.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u269	It aims to support bookstores through a budgetary effort of $11 million to offset the 9% discount on book purchases for libraries. The French network of bookstores has nearly 3500 structures. They lost 96% of their turnover during confinement. The return to normal conditions would imply a 12% monthly increase in turnover until the end of the year. That is to say, after the epidemic rebounds, it is impossible mission. We can therefore expect the sector to face serious structural difficulties. We cannot accept such a situation, minister. Culture, our citizens and our territories need the library network to nurture proximity, foster access to culture and provide reading advice to each and every one of us. Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u270	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u271	The Book Price Act, known as the Lang Act, sets a maximum discount for purchases of non-school books from local authorities. The library market today remains profitable for bookstores of all sizes, although this profitability is lower than that of sales to individuals. As part of the recovery plan, communities will be accompanied to significantly enrich library collections and receive $5 million per year for two years. These purchases will benefit bookstores mechanically. For these various reasons, the opinion is unfavourable in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u273	Clearly, this legislation does not fall within the scope of a finance act, as it challenges the Lang Act. This argument alone is sufficient to give an unfavourable opinion, in addition to the substantive arguments put forward by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u274	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u275	I have heard the arguments of the Special Rapporteur and the Minister, to which I am sensitive. The sincerity of your support for bookstores is no doubt, and you convinced me. We will remain vigilant in the future, but we will withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u276	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2593.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u277	You have responded to this appeal amendment in a perfect way! I just want to go back to the situation of small publishers, who would also deserve help to compensate for the postal price of sending the book. When you order a book from the publisher Jean-François Jeunet, for example, a publisher specializing in cinema books, you receive his book carefully packed in a nice kraft paper. However, the shipment cost more than 50% of the price of the book. Of course, this publisher is not a bookseller and some of his books are also sold on Amazon and Fnac. But it is important that small publishers, who do quality work, also receive assistance to compensate for the postal price of sending the book. Thank you for what you can do for them, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u278	So you're withdrawing the amendment, Mrs Victory?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u279	But yes, it is not applicable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u280	I would still like to hear the minister's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u281	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u282	Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u283	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u284	I have already answered about the state taking over postal tariffs. The shipping price will now be around 1 cent euro, the same as that enjoyed by the large direct competing platforms of the booksellers. We also negotiated with La Poste the delivery rates within an intercommunality and employment pool. [[Ms. Danielle Brulebois applauds]] You ask that small publishers benefit from this measure, but they have quite a different cost structure. Their margins allow them to pay postal rates at a level other than those of the booksellers. The emergency measure we are taking will cost no less than 10 to 20 million a month, I would like to report it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u285	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2636.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u286	It also addresses the assistance we could provide to booksellers and proposes a funding solution to offset the postal rate and shipping rate. The aim is to raise 1.6 million from the 180 "Press and Media" programme, specifically from action 07 "International Radio and Television Company", in order to create an aid for the postal transport of the book. We are very interested in this subject and we believe that we have an interesting lead here. I also discussed this with the actors in the sector during the hearings I conducted as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education on the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission. This solution would help the book industry and correct what appears to be a distortion of competition between independent bookstores and large platforms. I would add that it would help to combat territorial inequalities in access to books. The minister has provided us with specific explanations on this subject, but I conclude by calling for a reflection on post-confinement. This temporary emergency solution could provide a basis, probably to be developed, to accompany booksellers in the long term.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u288	Given the clarifications made by the Minister a few moments ago and to the extent that this amendment is an appeal amendment, I invite you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u290	Postal tariffs are at the heart of a recurring demand for booksellers. For the time being, we are responding to this as part of an emergency plan, but we will then consider making the system sustainable, encrypting it and integrating it into our overall assistance to bookstores and independent booksellers. For the time being, the proposed measure is premature. It is too early to sustain the aid to compensate for the postal price of sending the book. Today we are acting urgently and vigorously to remedy the situation created by confinement. However, I would like to return to the situation of bookshops with regard to health measures in connection with this amendment. Some wonder why they are subject to special provisions, different from those applied in large areas. We go to a supermarket to buy pasta and yoghurt as we go to a bookstore to buy books. Precisely, there are different measures because it is a bookshop. A bookshop is a place of conviviality. The musicologist Alain Duault, who, like me, you like a lot, wrote in an excellent editorial that buying a book in a bookstore is not a purchase: it is handling the books, flipping them, moving the batteries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u291	We do the same with yogurt!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u292	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Knowing that the SARS-CoV-2 is nine hours long on an inert surface, one can always think about ways to ensure health security in these stores, but it will be necessary to go beyond the hydro-alcoholic gel at the entrance, gauges or receiving customers by appointment. In any case, we discuss with the booksellers of all these subjects: they are very lucid, fully aware of the health risk. It is necessary to ensure the safety of people; But, I repeat, a bookshop is no more an ordinary business than a book is a yogurt or a packet of pasta.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u293	On the credits of the mission "Media, books and cultural industries", I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2542.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u294	The aim of this amendment is to support direct-line cinemas to the tune of EUR 10 million. In medium-sized municipalities, in places where culture is not always easy to access, cinemas are essential, and the crisis has obviously hit them. The president of the CNC, the National Centre for Cinema and Animated Image, had told us that he was ready to help, eventually, those who would find themselves in serious difficulty, but that they could benefit from other support. As such, we could help the municipalities, which are already actively supporting their theatres and cinemas, to propose or extend interesting devices themselves. Directly controlled cinemas, which are heavily affected, must be able to resume their activities as soon as circumstances permit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u295	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u296	Cinemas in municipal governance participate in the public service of culture. You are right about the importance of their role: I am also sensitive to it. However, their financing is much less dependent on ticketing than on private rooms, which often have higher rates. In addition, support for art and test rooms and small independent rooms will be a major focus of the recovery plan: the CNC plans to spend more than 30 million euros on this. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u297	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u298	I will only add to the special rapporteur's excellent arguments, particularly on the difference in cost structures, that about 400 rooms out of 6000 already benefit from cross-cutting measures. Nevertheless, the CNC indicated that if rooms were really in great difficulty, if they risked closure, it could work to help them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u299	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 2564.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u300	The purpose of this amendment is to create a support fund for artists and authors. The health crisis exacerbates the difficulties faced by creative professionals. The Ministry of Culture has tried to help them through its public operators: the National Book Centre – CNL –, the CNC, the National Plastic Arts Centre – CNAP – and the National Music Centre – CNM. This approach was ultimately counterproductive. On the one hand, it has resulted in silos support, by broadcasting sector, instead of global and direct support for artists-authors; On the other hand, the dispersal of the devices has condemned the latter to seek emergency aid at random from the counters, moreover unequally equipped and open to some but not others. This amendment is therefore intended to support the creative sector in our country by considering artists-authors as a professional category in their own right. It is in line with my bill to create a national centre for artists-authors, which I have presented to you, Madam Minister, on the occasion of the review of the appropriations for the mission "Culture".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u301	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u302	I'll be brief, because I attended your exchanges this morning. In terms of form, support for artists, authors and creators falls under program 131, "Creation", of the "Culture" mission. On the other hand, I have nothing to add to what the Special Rapporteur and the Minister have said to you this morning. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u303	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u304	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u305	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u306	Michel Larive's amendment aims to support creation in its diversity. I therefore wanted to ask you a question, Madam Minister: on May 24, 2017, Ms.Dolphine Ernotte signed in person a letter addressed to the company of Nagui and securing over three years the services of animator of the latter for France Télévisions. This document provides for a remuneration of EUR 100 million; its clauses would appear to be questionable and would reveal a distortion of usage. In order to avoid any slippage, it is expressly provided that contracts in excess of 10 million must be submitted for validation to the sub-committee on commitments, issued by the board of directors of France Télévisions. In this case, this procedure may not have been followed. Is it not for the Supreme Council of Audiovisual, the CSA, to give itself the means to verify it? As the minister responsible for public broadcasting, who is the guarantor of its good governance, can you assure us that there is concrete evidence of the validation of this so-called "confidential" agreement by the sub-committee on commitments, such as an agenda and minutes? Do you think that a mere statement by the leaders, without a written record, can suffice? In the current context, Minister, a specific answer from you is essential, and very much expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u307	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u308	This is a case in point: I do not have the elements that would allow me to answer you immediately. Of course, I pledge to the national representation to provide you with all necessary information. If you don't mind, this question will ask me for some thought, especially since the facts date back to 2017, that is to say, at a time when – I don't regret it – I was not a Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u309	I put to the vote the credits of the mission "Media, Book and Cultural Industries".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u310	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 92 Number of votes cast 84 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 74 Against 10
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u311	I now call the amendments to the Additional Article after Article 55, attached to the "Media, Book and Cultural Industries" mission. I call Mr Pascal Bois to support Amendment No. 1191.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u312	This amendment due to Raphaël Gérard aims to ensure that the CNC, in return for the strong support of the State, is strongly committed to the creation and production of content that promotes the representation of French diversity. The social movements that sparked our streets following the shock wave triggered by the murder of George Floyd in the United States this spring recalled the visceral attachment of French and French people to the fight against racism, because every act of hatred is a stabbing at the heart of the Republic. They invite us today to have a special thought for the Asian community, which, in the context of the coronavirus epidemic, is faced with a decomplexed racism: this is evidenced by the lynching of young Kevin, molested by high school students chanting "Chinese Sale! At every blow. Because of its mission to promote social cohesion, because of its influence on the French cultural model, the audiovisual sector has a role to play in this field. The fight against racism requires the evolution of attitudes and the promotion of positive visibility, in order to break the chains of mind. Currently, the account is not there: according to the latest diversity barometer published by the CSA, only 3% of the people viewed on the screen are from the popular suburbs, and the share of those perceived as "non-white" declines in 2019. It would therefore be interesting for the CNC to be able to adopt a system of aid enhancement, similar to the one already introduced to promote parity, in order to promote the emergence of faces or signatures from diversity. If we want to reconcile ourselves in the spirit of republican universalism, it is important to build an inclusive house, proud of its diversity and united in its values.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u313	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u314	The aim of this appeal amendment is to make the CNC's appropriations subject to specific commitments to support diversity, particularly in its ultramarine dimension. In essence, progress is needed in terms of the presence of diversity in audiovisual fiction, whether on television or in cinema. On the form, the notion of "specific commitments" is somewhat blurred: the CNC has already committed itself in 2019, with a charter for parity, equality and diversity in French cinema and audiovisual. It also provides selective support for cinematographic works of interest to overseas cultures. In addition, we have seen the effects on the public audiovisual sector of the Overseas Visibility Pact. Perhaps it is difficult to reproduce in the field of creation what works in the field of information. In any event, I understand that you are waiting for answers from the minister, more than from me. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u315	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u316	I agree, of course, with the spirit of this amendment and with you, Mr Bois, on the importance of diversity and mutual respect. I continue to work with the CNC: this is a matter of particular concern to me. As the Special Rapporteur has just pointed out, the CNC has made a strong commitment through the support of the "Images of Diversity" fund, specific support for films and short films of interest to overseas cultures. "Specific commitments" have already been made: if we want to make state subsidies conditional on the subscription of other commitments, we should introduce quotas, in violation of freedom of creation. Progress must be made, commitments made must be honoured. I request the withdrawal of this amendment; Otherwise, I would not want to reject it, given the philosophy behind it, but from an operational point of view, it would nevertheless be the only solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u317	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor to support Amendment No. 2173.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u318	This is a request for a report on a regulatory provision that applies to cultural industries, including related industries such as communication agencies responsible for film promotion. On 5 August, the tourism sector was able to benefit from a "PGE – State-guaranteed loan – season", allowing a company that accounts for 80% of its turnover over three months to increase its PGE ceiling from 25% to 80% of its turnover in the last financial year closed. It is important to act quickly and provide those who participate in our cultural life with an efficient economic tool. We therefore want a similar measure for the cultural sector, except that the ceiling would be raised, not from 25 % to 80 %, but from 25 % to 50 % of turnover. There is a seasonal aspect in the release of the films, which is more in the spring or autumn, with summer being more reserved for American films, and was therefore greatly affected by the health crisis. Our proposal for a report aims to address this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u320	Your amendment aims to raise the EMP ceiling for cultural actors. The strength of the EMP lies precisely in the fact that it is a cross-cutting mechanism which benefits all economic sectors; Moreover, it is managed by the Ministry of Economy, so that we cannot comment here on its enlargement. Personally, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u321	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u322	It is also unfavourable, for the same reasons. Nevertheless, we would move quickly on these issues if necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u323	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u324	I would like to make two points. First, I did not say, Madam Minister, that you were competent to intervene directly on this subject, which does not fall within your scope; I just wanted you to support our request. As to whether an increase in the EMP ceiling is necessary, it seems to me that the question does not even arise. We know that because of the confinement of the spring, then the cancellations of releases this summer, and finally the present confinement, the companies could not promote films that have not been released. The urgency is therefore absolute.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u325	I call the appropriations of the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector", entered in statement D. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 2535.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u326	This one, I will not withdraw, Madam Minister! It simply aims to restore France Télévisions' credits to the same level as in the Finance Act for 2020. The austerity cure imposed on the public audiovisual industry has lasted quite long; She has to stop. The audiovisual sector cannot function properly by experiencing, on the one hand, a decrease in its advertising revenues, estimated at 55 million euros, on the other hand, a 3% reduction each year since 2019 in public support, while assuming an increase in its spending to finance security measures linked to the crisis. This situation is no longer tenable. However, the Government is certainly aware of the role played by the public audiovisual sector. France Télévisions is in particular France 4, an educational tool for young people, particularly useful during periods of confinement. France Télévisions is also France Ô, the channel of territories, proximity and inclusion. France Télévisions is still supporting French creation: it is public action for the audiovisual sector. Governments must restore the economic balance necessary to carry out their mission. That is why, through this amendment, we are asking for EUR 60 million for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u327	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u328	I would like to recall what was said in the opening remarks: the recovery plan compensates for the loss of advertising revenues. An amount of €45 million is foreseen for France Télévisions in 2021, thus reducing the decline in public funding. France 4, which you refer to, met with success during the confinement of spring, which is why its diffusion is maintained until 2021. Its possible abolition in 2021 – we will have the opportunity to talk about it on the occasion of the following amendments – would not prevent France Télévisions from continuing the deployment of its strategy with regard to youth. As for France Ô, its removal did not constitute damage to the overseas countries. On the contrary, the first assessments of the Overseas Visibility Pact show a better exposure of ultramarine territories on public audiovisual channels. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u329	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u330	Unfavorable opinion, for the reasons excellently set out by the Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u331	I have before me two amendments, Nos 2536 and 2537, which can be presented together. Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u332	These two amendments have a similar purpose. The first concerns Radio France. I understand that we do not share the same vision of things, but Radio France is doing a remarkable job and seeing its audience grow. I will not go back to the arguments we have already developed to convince you. The second amendment concerns Arte France. I would also like to highlight the remarkable work that she is doing in choosing to give an important place to authors and directors, and in ensuring the production and distribution of quality films. Arte has truly become a mark, a landmark. It also works for young people by contributing to the unification and pacification of Europe, on which it is open. So I find his action exciting. For all these reasons, we will have to reconsider the means we wish to provide to Radio France and Arte France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u333	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u334	On Amendment No 2536, I would like to point out, as you have said, that Radio France has demonstrated its ability to modernise while reducing its costs. His channel audiences have never been so high. You evoke the departure plan; signed by the majority of trade unions, it will also allow to recruit new skills and develop a digital offer, with podcasts for example. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion. On the other hand, as I said to the Radio France trade unions that I have heard, as I wrote in my report and as I indicated in the Finance Committee and in my opening remarks today, I will be vigilant in the coming months about the social climate and the implementation of the reforms. If malaise is expressed, it should be taken into account. As for Arte France, which is the subject of Amendment No 2537, it seems to me important to stress that it receives an exceptional allocation of EUR 2 million under the recovery plan, which cancels the reduction in subsidies and will help to preserve investment expenditure in creation while consolidating the support of the actors in the audiovisual sector. Arte's role is very important in this sector, as you pointed out. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u335	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u336	The two amendments are also unfavourable, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u337	Amendment No 2588 by Mrs Elsa Faucillon is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u338	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 2559.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u339	The austerity cure imposed on the entire public audiovisual industry continues this year, while its advertising revenues are falling free and it faces additional costs associated with the covid -19 epidemic. The PLF 2021 does not provide for any response to the sector's warning cry, which is why we have tabled this appeal amendment, which aims to denounce the policy of destroying the public audiovisual service implemented by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u340	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u341	We had this debate in the Finance Committee. The public audiovisual sector is fully committed to promoting French creation, to disseminating local information as close as possible to the territories, to developing programmes for young people and to adapting to the new uses of French people by offering a high-quality digital offer. It is this public audio-visual that we support and that I want to defend today. Your amendment seems unfair to me in view of the commitments made by the public audiovisual industry and the results of the hearings, which demonstrate its ability to adapt and meet the expectations of the French. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u342	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u343	I welcome the humor of the author of the amendment: creating a plan with 100 euros is very nice! I am, however, unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u344	Your opinion makes the author of the amendment react, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u345	Ah, I was wrong to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u346	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u347	[[Smile]] You're right, Minister. I thank you for your remark because, in my opinion, the one with humor is also endowed with intelligence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u348	You have to say good of yourself, you're right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u349	Since they don't throw flowers at me, I have to use myself! Madam Special Rapporteur, you say that the public audiovisual sector works for proximity and youth, but this majority will close France Ô and France 4! Don't you think there's a contradiction here?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u350	From the appropriations of the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector", I am seized by the group La République en marche of a request for public voting. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Céline Calvez, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to support Amendment No. 2645.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u351	The role of France 4 has just been mentioned, its mobilization to participate in educational continuity during confinement has been emphasized. His offer must not hide the rest of the public audiovisual offer: the numerous podcasts of Radio France intended for young people, such as "Les Odyssées" and "Une histoire et... Oli", the programmes "Le monde est nous" on RFI and "Le journal junior" sur Arte, the animated series broadcast on TV5 Monde or the programmes of the INA – Institut national de l'audiovisuel – to reconcile children with nostalgia. The offer of public audiovisual services to young people is rich. This amendment proposes to allocate $50 million from all these companies to create a new budget programme dedicated to public audiovisual policy for young people. The aim is to sanctify some of the funds allocated to youth programmes in a common line with all public audiovisual societies, in order to strengthen the synergies that already exist between these societies. The Lumni platform is a good example of these synergies, but it should be better accompanied. The aim is thus to value the youth offer, whether linear or delineated, and, more broadly, to invite reflection on the distribution of CAP – a contribution to the public audiovisual sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u352	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u353	It is of course possible to deepen synergies in programmes for young people, notably through the successful Okoo and Lumni platforms. I would like to make it clear that the synergies between the operators will in any case be strengthened: in 2021, all public audiovisual companies are called upon to rework their contract of objectives and performance in this direction. The fact that their contracts for objectives and resources – COM – cover the same period will facilitate this search for synergies. Finally, I would like to point out that youth is a priority of the action of France Télévisions, which is included in Article 13 of its specifications. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u354	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u355	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We rightly welcomed the effort made by France 4 during confinement, but the public service cannot have a chain of containment that, hopefully, would serve less and less – or never more! I wanted to extend the existence of France 4 to give us time for reflection. What objective are we pursuing? It is not a question of maintaining France 4, but of questioning the needs of our children and our youth. Do they need an educational channel? What levels of education should such a channel target and how should its programmes be structured? Do we need a youth channel offering a good cultural level of programming? Do we need an animation channel? It is to all these questions that we must answer. Our role is not to maintain a structure that could be useless. Needs must be derived, quantified and analysed. That's why I gave you some time to think about it. Of course, I call on Members, especially Members, to initiate and structure this reflection. Clearly, the idea of continuing to broadcast France 4 because it served during confinement is, in a way, absurd. We have maintained an effort of EUR 10 million. Let us consider the future by placing our children at the heart of our thinking. Request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u356	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u357	Do you withdraw the amendment, Mrs Calvez?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u358	I invite you to leave the prism that leads to consider France Télévisions as the only provider of youth offer. Of course, its channels offer many very interesting programmes, but I would like to stress once again that the other public audiovisual entities are also able to offer interesting programmes whose visibility needs to be increased. Besides, why not do it on France 4? I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u359	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor to support Amendment No. 2644.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u360	This amendment is intended to support the Francophonie. A real challenge and asset of soft power, it is indeed one of the keys to the influence of French culture around the world. It must be the subject of an ambitious policy, which this amendment proposes to underline in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u361	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u362	TV5 Monde is the only channel whose endowment was stabilized in 2021. It will thus accelerate its digital transition planned for 2020, with the enrichment of the TV5MONDEplus programme. Unfavorable notice in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u363	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u364	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I express an opinion against this amendment, but I thank Mrs Mette for having tabled it. Indeed, the defence of la francophonie should not be reserved for a single channel, but should be entrusted to all the channels of the public service and, why not, to the private audiovisual sector. In front of the florilege of Anglo-Saxon expressions that invade the French media, in particular the news channels, I call for an ardent defence of the Francophonie – which does not need any money.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u365	I put to the vote the appropriations of the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u366	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 91 Number of votes cast 83 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 73 [[The appropriations of the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector" shall be adopted.(Applause from the LaREM and Dem groups]] Against 10
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u367	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor to support Amendment No. 2612, which adds an additional rule after Rule 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u368	The purpose of this amendment is to draw up a report assessing the expenditure on youth, education or animation of France Télévisions in the first half of 2021. France 4 is the main channel in the public service broadcasting programmes aimed primarily at young people and is expected to stop broadcasting in August 2021 in favour of the non-linear Okoo platform. However, throughout the first confinement, France 4 showed all its educational interest by taking a large part in the "National Apprentice" scheme and it also achieved very good audience results. It also informed young people about the existence and interest of the Okoo and Lumni platforms. Maintaining a public service channel for youth is a response to the persistent digital divide that could prevent a part of the public from accessing such content if it does not have a satisfactory Internet connection or sufficient digital skills. This report will therefore make it possible to start a reflection on the desirability of maintaining France 4 by comparing the expenditure incurred for the programmes intended for young people with the results of the hearings of France 4 and Okoo. It will also have to take into account France Télévisions' ability to address a young audience and the possible impact of the closure of France 4 on the animation sector. Finally, it would enable Parliament to have an informed opinion on the decision to close or maintain this chain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u369	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u370	A great deal of information already exists on France Télévisions' youth policy, including the CSA's performance report on the specifications and the performance report on the objectives and resources contract. I understand your concern about the future of France 4 and, more broadly, about programmes for young people on the public audiovisual sector, and several of us have already highlighted, over the past three years, the challenge of developing an offer for young people on digital technology and extending the digital coverage of the territory, an issue that also relates to the issue of the accessibility of young people to "youth" programmes on digital media – Céline Calvez's amendment, which we discussed a few moments ago, expressed the same concern. For my part, I believe that it is up to Parliament to take up this matter, to evaluate it and to make proposals. That is why I wish this amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u371	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u372	With this amendment, you are prolonging the debate on the future of France 4...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u373	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u374	Ah, sorry, did the Chairman of the Committee on Cultural Affairs have the floor?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u375	No, you have it, Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u376	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't want to rise above my condition... The reflection on the importance of youth programmes on France Télévisions is absolutely indispensable and must itself lead us to another reflection, which I wish, on the best way to structure the educational offer "youth" within the public audiovisual sector. Having said that, I do not think you need a government report on this. First of all, it is Mrs Ernotte's responsibility to provide the expected clarifications, and I will gladly be your ambassador to ask her for structured information – I will not go so far as to talk about a report – in this area. Of course, I will participate actively and proactively in the reflection you want to engage, and I will be available whenever you wish to audition me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u377	Do you maintain your amendment, Mrs Piron?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u378	I would ask President Studer whether there can be any reflection in Parliament on the future of youth programmes in the event of a closure of France 4. In the immediate future, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the examination of the appropriations of the mission "Media, books and cultural industries" and of the financial assistance account "Advances to the public audiovisual sector".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u380	We are dealing with the examination of the appropriations relating to the cohesion of the territories (No 3399, Annexes 8 and 9 ; No 3488, Volume V; No 3400, Volumes IV and V; No 3398, Volume IX). I welcome Mrs Emmanuelle Wargon, Minister Delegate to the Minister for Ecological Transition, responsible for housing, and Mr Joël Giraud, Secretary of State to the Minister for Cohesion of the Territories and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, responsible for rural development. Mr François Jolivet, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u381	As Special Rapporteur for part of the "Cohesion of the Territories" mission, I examine the appropriations for the three "Housing", "Urbanism" and "Support for access to housing". I shall begin by referring to the budget for housing assistance. The contemporaneity of the aid, which will be accompanied by the reform of the LPA, will finally be in place in January 2021, after being postponed successively to July 2019, January 2020 and April 2020. As early as December 2018, your rapporteur had told you his doubts about its effectiveness, and the covid-19 eventually postponed the reform to January 2021, by decision of the minister. This structural reform is particularly relevant in times of crisis. The benefit paid will adapt more quickly to a change in the situation of the beneficiaries. Again this year, an article in the PLF provides for a contribution of €1 billion from Housing Action to the National Housing Assistance Fund – FNAL. This contribution takes the form of a performance measure that is said to precede a major reform. I am worried about this new job, Housing Action being one of the main financers of social housing. Whatever the reform envisaged, it should in my view have taken place before this contribution, which risks undermining the economic model of social housing, because I am among those who believe that, if social housing can be self-supporting, it can only do so with the resources of the participation of enterprises in the construction effort. The year 2021 will also be for us the fourth year of implementation of the rent reduction of solidarity – RLS. Social housing organizations have managed to absorb this budgetary effort without jeopardising their economic balance. However, the health crisis and the late installation of municipal councils may lead to fewer applications for approval, and caution should be exercised in the coming months. The budget for emergency accommodation in 2021 increased by 10% to EUR 2.2 billion. In 2017, the Government launched an unprecedented five-year plan for access to housing for homeless people, which shows that this effort is continuing. Last year, I drew the Government's attention to the need to support the development of adequate housing. It has taken into account my recommendations since, in particular for family pensions, it increases the price to be paid to managers by 13%. On your behalf, last spring, I welcomed the mobilization of all actors to ensure appropriate care for homeless people. Additional seats were opened, cheques were handed over, and masks were distributed: in total, PLFR 4 recorded EUR 250 million in appropriations on this subject. However, I would like to express my concern for 2021: if it is important, the increase in resources seems insufficient, because I fear that the health crisis will not be behind us in 2021. The programme on housing finance and land-use planning includes some of the funds dedicated to MaPrimeRénov'. This premium, which will completely replace the energy transition tax credit – ISCED – as of January 1, 2021, was paid to low-income households this year, and the target of 200000 actions is expected to be achieved. The Government has decided, as part of the recovery plan, to temporarily transform MaPrimeRenov' to open it to the ninth and tenth deciles, as well as to condominiums and landlords. This bonus will speed up the disappearance of thermal colanders, which seems a good thing to me. However, we must not forget the other trades of the National Agency for Habitat Improvement – ANAH. The Habiter Better Serenity program allows very modest people to be accompanied by a master's degree, but this massification effort should not eliminate other devices. I want to tell you that 500 million euros are also spent on the renovation of the social park, plus 300 million euros to create a "Friches" fund to make polluted land buildable. Like last year, I want to stress the need to reflect on the future of Book A. I hope that the Caisse des dépôts, which lends to HLM organizations, will be able to preserve its principle of universal rates. Finally, I hope that we will learn a lot from this health crisis and that we will be able to draw right conclusions from it. Emigration to rural areas in times of containment is a hope for rural areas. Urban density is a fragility factor in the health crisis. Let us find the worst in the best of this crisis to allow harmonious development of the territory. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] There are enough housing in our country, but it is obviously impossible to put them on wheels to take them to where the most important needs are... In 2021, the year that will precede that of the presidential election, I think it is necessary to reflect on this. For the time being, of course, I call on the National Assembly to vote on the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u382	Mr Mohamed Laqhila, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u383	I will not talk to you about figures – you will find them in my report – but about models of society, action and tomorrow's France. Territorial policy must be a priority of our action. She's our priority. In times of crisis, everyone agrees that it is our priority neighbourhoods of city politics – QPV – our rural territories, our villages, our medium-sized cities, our ultramarine territories that suffer the first and suffer the most. Our priority is to enable them to go through the crisis, but even more so to ensure that the recovery is the opportunity to revitalize our city centres, to attract new investors to our industrial territories and to revive employment in our neighbourhoods. I would like to thank the Government, and in particular the Deputy Minister for the City, Nadia Hai, for her presence in the field, which clearly shows its support for the fabric of associations and neighbourhoods. I know that you too, the Minister Delegate and the Secretary of State, are present. The Recovery Plan foresees a major effort to support the Territorial Cohesion Action of Programme 364. Thus, a set of programmes led by the National Agency for the Cohesion of Territories – ANCT – will be supported: Action crédit de ville, Petites villes demain, Territoires d'industries, or Fabriques de territoire. However, I would like to draw your attention: we must make sure that these programmes will be operational quickly, and that they will be effective on a sustainable basis. I say it in all sincerity: we have no more time to waste. Let's remove the many remaining brakes! All too often, structural programmes have lost their meaning, owing to bureaucracy and lack of local political portage. Some people take months or even years to get out of the ground. Take the example of the New National Urban Renewal Program, the NPNRU, under Program 147 "City Policy": it has already accumulated enough delay, between the lack of local political will, confinement and the postponement of municipal elections! Let's go into more detail about programs 112 "Impulsion and coordination of land use policy", 162 "State Territorial Interventions" and 147 "City Policy", which I discuss in my report. Since we are talking about the budget, I have to give you a few figures: the budget of 2021 is up 3.7%, to reach 787 million euros. This increase is mainly due to programme 147, whose budget is growing by EUR 20 million. [[Mr. François Jolivet, Special Rapporteur, applauds]] Program 147 covers in particular the Adult-Relay system, which develops social mediation in neighbourhoods, and in which I believe a lot. Now, dare we say, it has been systematically under-executed in the past. If his recruitment conditions are complex, let's lighten them! In addition, I welcome the rise in the power of another scheme under programme 147, the Educational Cities. The terrible events of the last few days have reminded us: the school is a source of emancipation; It is the keystone of the fight against deadly ideologies. With regard to programme 162, which includes the interministerial appropriations known as PITE – the State Territorial Intervention Programme – note that the commitments of the President of the Republic relating to the action plan against chlordecone pollution in Guadeloupe and Martinique are being fulfilled. It would appear that the additional appropriations of EUR 2 million, granted in 2020, were not consumed, while they were intended to develop tests with the populations of Martinique and Guadeloupe. However, they should be postponed to 2021. As for programme 112 "Impulsion and coordination of land-use policy", it shows a significant reduction in its budgets: it is due to the transfer of appropriations from the State-region plan contracts, which were included in the recovery plan. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister for agreeing to extend the zoned tax arrangements of the urban free zones – ZFU – and the rural revitalization zones – ZRR. I have tabled several amendments to that effect. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I was saying, in the preamble, that I want to talk about a model of society. I persist and sign: since the beginning of the legislature, in 2017, I call for the politics of the city to be governed by common law. I dream of the day when the priority areas of city politics will no longer be separate territories, but territories in their own right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u384	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1064.u385	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Further to the review of the appropriations for the "Cohesion of Territories" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
