ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill ratifying Order No. 2019-950 of 11 September 2019, which is part of the legislation of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code (No. 2367, 3637).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u3	"In front of the child, the judicial decision is valid only if it expresses an act of solidarity and friendship. These words of Jean Chazal, taken from L'Enfance delinquente, largely reflect the spirit of the September 11, 2019 order submitted for ratification of our assembly. As we approach the discussion of this text in open session, the Dem Group is part of a measurement and accountability approach to the issues of juvenile criminal justice. Behind the young offenders, there are life paths of abused, broken, disinherited children, but there are also victims who are hit hard by the distress and violence of some of these minors, victims who do not understand and who need to quickly turn the page to rebuild and move forward. We must not leave each other in uncertainty about their future, nor should we leave society as a whole beyond them. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, as you said in the Law Commission, "a punishment without education is a recidivism machine." I want to add that a criminal conviction without civil reparation to the extent of the suffering of the victims is a machine of despair, a machine of losing confidence in the institution of justice. We must therefore put the juvenile criminal justice cursor in the right place, balancing prevention, punishment sometimes, education always, reparation and reintegration. Our legislative work will result in a new look and action of justice for generations of minors. That is why the Dem Group welcomes the rich and dense work carried out prior to the publication of the Ordinance. It is a continuation of several reports, such as the one of the Varinard Commission of 2008 – you mentioned it, Mr. the Keeper of the Seals – or the one of the information mission led by our colleagues Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier at the beginning of 2019, whose remarkable work and conclusions, both formal and remarkable, I welcome. The cardinal principles of the Ordinance of 2 February 1945 on juvenile delinquents were questioned. Their letter has thus evolved over the course of the thirty-nine amendments to the text since 1945, resulting in a tendency to tighten our criminal policy towards minors. Judicial practice has also evolved, with some of these principles being largely inadequate for the development of juvenile delinquency. In the face of a complex and illegible juvenile justice system, the Ordinance of 11 September 2019 undeniably represents a substantial modernization of juvenile criminal law. In particular, we welcome the reduction in the average processing time from 18 months to one year. A judgement on guilt shall be handed down within a maximum of three months. This hearing will allow minors to benefit from an educational measure without time lag between the commission of the offence and the response given; It is essential for the minor to become aware of the seriousness of the acts against him or her and, in many cases, for him or her to renounce any passage in the act – for we obviously hope that his or her life will resume a normal course. The accelerated response given at the end of this hearing will also benefit victims, who can be compensated more quickly. The establishment of a presumption of discernment at the age of 13 was intended to improve the protection afforded to children, which had not been sufficiently stated by the opponents of the text. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, we fully agree with you on the advisability of creating this presumption and giving it a simple character, since the casuistic assessment in specie must prevail in any situation. However, the presumption to the contrary, that of non-discernment before the age of 13, also seems to us to be paramount. Our group suggested in committee that it should be made irreflagable so that no young child could be held criminally liable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u5	At the end of the dialogue on this subject, we were convinced by some of your arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u6	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u7	However, such a measure would bring France into line with its international commitments, while the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has already noted on several occasions our shortcomings in this regard. Another central point of reform deserves our attention. The codification of juvenile criminal justice will improve the readability of the various applicable rules and, as a result, promote access to and effectiveness of the law; We look forward to it. However, like the Defender of Rights, the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights and UNICEF – the United Nations Children's Fund – we consider it necessary to go further and create a children's code that brings together all the civil, criminal and administrative rules applicable to children and adolescents. Indeed, it is from a cross-cutting approach that we can provide minors with more effective and individualised protection, taking into account the different aspects of their lives. We also need to strengthen synergies between the various actors in children. For example, situations of school violence that degenerate are more related to a lack of coordination between the various actors in national education, social services or justice than to the need to create new care arrangements. Colleagues, we are going to turn together the page of the order of 2 February 1945, a text signed by General de Gaulle in a context of an end of war that had thrown thousands of children and adolescents on the street. In parental disinherence, they needed an answer, a support from society, to regain the path of a more serene future. As counsel Dominique Attias explained, the 1945 order "emphasized education, even though it was felt that education could go as far as incarceration." With this text, we are therefore far from the hardening announced here or there.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u8	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u9	From the 1945 order, we believe that the primacy of education over repression must be maintained,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u10	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u11	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] ...and I think that this is the path we are taking and the objective we are going to achieve by voting on this text, in a few days' time. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, we are fully and broadly committed to this reform of juvenile justice, and we thank you for your commitment to a more responsive, effective and readable criminal response. Better justice for children: we owe it to our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u12	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u13	In an interview, in 2015, Pierre Joxe had rightly described the reality of juvenile justice: "many judges, exhausted educators, too long delays between arrest, trial and its application, insufficient and constantly decreasing means". We share this observation, which, during the same period, led Christiane Taubira, then keepers of seals, supported by the majority of the time, to plan to codify the ordinance of 1945. I will make two regrets, two concerns and a few observations. My first regret is that we are debating the ratification of an order, not a bill. In 2018, the sudden public announcement of the use of an order to reform juvenile justice caused anger and disappointment. While the Ministry of Justice has since made a great deal of efforts to revive the parliamentary debate, the initial decision of the executive continues to weigh and leaves the idea that, by using an order, it wanted to keep its hand in codifying the 1945 order by going as far as possible. A working group has been set up at the Ministry, with the administration of the Chancery, which I salute; However, for having participated, I can say that this does not replace the discussion with a minister, that one can more easily convince that his administration – between political figures, it seems to be easier. Let us disregard the deleterious effects of the orders: apart from the fact that Parliament is divested, the texts are not adopted more quickly. Therefore, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, it was particularly important for you to be present during the examination of the text by the Law Commission. Second regret: perhaps a code of civil and criminal justice for children and adolescents should have been debated. The issue of the treatment of delinquent children has emerged since the beginning of the twentieth century as an indissociable part of the protection of children at risk. The 1945 Ordinance, which specifically addresses the treatment of delinquent children, does not exclude this approach. As part of the above-mentioned fact-finding mission, we have seen the links between the treatment of child offenders and the protection of children at risk, and the public concerned may also be the same. The judicial protection of young people is still competent in civil matters, the 1975 Decree has not been repealed, but no funding is allocated to the ESA – the social assistance for children. We believe that it is essential to clarify this point and to organise care under ESA and under criminal law in a more legible way, especially when criminal responsibility is set at 13 years. I come to both of my concerns. It was at the beginning of the last century that the idea that the child would be a miniature adult was abandoned, so to be subject to the same rules as the adult. Under the impetus of foreign legislation, France, in the 1945 Ordinance, took the step with the enactment of the main principles of juvenile justice and adolescence: primacy of education, mitigation of criminal responsibility, specialized jurisdiction. I believe that the preamble to this order should be included on the front page of the new Code of Criminal Justice for Minors, as well as the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is true that the preliminary article of the Code recalls these principles and, in my opinion, its text tends to implement them. It is on the issue of means that there is the greatest concern among all professionals. Everything has to go faster, and everyone is afraid of having neither the time nor the means to set up an educational care. Will the material means be at the rendezvous? Let us take the example of the promise of the opening of twenty CEFs – closed educational centres – a strong campaign commitment of the President of the Republic. These operations are difficult to carry out. In my department, the only structure of this kind has been removed, at the initiative of a mayor and for bad reasons. Since then, nothing... The magistrates tell me, however, that a CEF is missing in the most populous department of the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region, rich of two judicial courts. Will the work of the judge be facilitated by the establishment of a tool enabling him to know, after the guilty hearing, what material and human capacities he has to pronounce the various educational measures and to identify the different places of reception he might need? I will now make a number of substantive comments based on the work of the fact-finding mission. First, juvenile justice is working well, given the recidivism rate: 65 per cent of children before the judge never return. We owe it to the exceptional commitment of professionals such as children's judges, clerks, educators and lawyers. The latter do not count their time to accompany the children throughout the procedure, notwithstanding the low remuneration, it must be said. This synergy of efforts means that a criminal response is provided in 95% of cases, at the cost of exhausting daily stress. The time limit within which the criminal response is given is not satisfactory: 45 per cent of the penalties and penalties would be imposed after the age of 18, you said, Mr. This situation cannot be ignored, nor the state of abandonment in which juvenile courts are left. As such, this bill is not a waiver. [[Mr. Keeper of the Seals Acquiesce]] I then observe that juvenile delinquency has not increased in our country in the last ten years, the fact-finding mission has confirmed this stability. There was also a rise in violence and the fact that younger and younger minors were often used as small hands by organized crime. Third, French legislation is one of the most repressive in Europe. Almost half of the penalties imposed on minors were penalties, while educational measures, taking into account international principles, should be the majority. With the exception of Great Britain, France is the European country that incarcerates minors the most. Let us recall the words of Robert Badinter, according to which imprisonment itself is "a evil rather than a remedy". This negative finding of a valid excessive imprisonment, all the more so the objective, as I share, of the 2019 law of programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice, which aims to limit it. However, this observation does not mean that our group systematically takes a negative view of places of deprivation of liberty. These include the juvenile section of the Varennes-le-Grand prison, which works well, thanks to an adapted structure and prison supervisors carrying out a remarkable work of accompaniment, worthy of praise. Fourth, the text contains important recommendations contained in our information report, such as the procedure for establishing an educational measure as close as possible to the commission of facts and the establishment of criminal responsibility at the age of 13. As for the question of discernment, we will have an opportunity to discuss it. On the other hand, other expectations remain. The specialisation of the prosecution service, which requires the strengthening of the training of judges, must be absolutely guaranteed. The custody of the seals has referred to this, the juvenile judge or the juvenile court does not have to pronounce or extend the pretrial detention of a child or adolescent; It is up to the judge of liberty and detention to do so. Of course, the latter is not specialized in child justice, but minors cannot have less rights than adults, and this double view is important. If the single hearing constitutes a speedy and appreciated procedure of the public prosecutor's offices, recourse to it must remain exceptional. Amendments will be proposed to reinforce this exceptional character, especially since we found, in the context of the fact-finding mission, that no statistics were available to assess the scope of the single hearing or its effects from the point of view of the requirements of the 1945 Order. The professionals we have met are concerned about the reform, as you know, because they fear the lack of flexibility in the procedure. Judges, like lawyers, want to monitor the work undertaken with the minors they know, and they fear that they will no longer be able to preserve this support, because of the flow of cases. In realism and in view of the new means to be put in place, we propose to postpone the date of entry into force of the new code to 30 June 2021 – and not to 1 October anymore. This gesture is expected by the professionals, all agreeing that they do not have the necessary means to implement this umpteenth reform of the justice system. It seems to me a good policy to allow them to be reassured on this point, giving them time to see the human resources and the material and computer resources announced arrive; agree with them on the implementation of a reform does not seem excessive. In conclusion, I will recall what we all know: juvenile justice is not just a code. Although the legislative work we are doing is essential, juvenile justice is primarily based on the commitment of professionals, to whom our society must express its recognition. Juvenile justice is just as a matter of course, which involves caring for the child in many different directions and areas, in particular, as I said in the Committee on Laws, Education and School Drop-out. In conclusion, I will quote Jacques Toubon, a former defender of rights, who held a speech of responsibility: "To want to charge justice with all that society is not able to do otherwise, is to ensure both the failure of society and that of justice. This is especially the case when it comes to juvenile criminal justice. I agree with him and it is in this state of mind that the Socialist and related groups will debate a text that they do not consider, I repeat, to be a renunciation of the spirit of the 1945 Order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u14	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u15	First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues Jean Terlier and Cécile Untermaier for their excellent work, done more than a year ago and already welcomed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Their information report provided a clear and accurate picture of juvenile criminal justice and its needs. Beyond the financial means, we are looking at an important bill to codify juvenile criminal justice, which meets the expectations of society and actors on the ground. Paul Auster wrote: "Needing children is destroying us ourselves. We exist in the present only to the extent that we put our faith in the future. The future of the country lies in our ability to deal with youth, especially when it is wrong. Used and unable to provide a consistent judicial response within a reasonable period of time, the order of 2 February 1945 did its time. The Group of the European People's Party wishes to take advantage of the general discussion to break the criticism of this reform of the 1945 Order, on the pretext that it would focus solely on the repressive dimension. On the contrary, the reading of the devices clearly demonstrates that the educational option has been given priority. First of all, let us remember that fundamental elements of the 1945 Ordinance will in no way be called into question: the criminal majority at the age of 18; the principle of mitigation of liability; the specialisation of juvenile justice, which allows the juvenile judge to retain his dual competence for educational assistance and trial of juvenile offenders; the priority given to action and educational responses, expressed by the fact that a sentence is imposed only by way of exception, if the educational measure proves to be insufficient. These fundamentals undeniably prove that the educational aspect is not cut short by the reform. Secondly, it should be noted that the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code adds a battery of educational measures. For example, instead of the multiplicity of mechanisms created by successive reforms of the 1945 Ordinance, a single judicial educational measure is put in place. Decomposed into modules, it will help to frame the modalities of educational work: integration with schooling; placement, whether in a home, foster home or boarding school; health; reparation for the offence committed. The force of the text is that it proposes an appropriate judgement on the punishment: it is decided on the basis of the minor's personality, his evolution and the repetition of the offences. In concrete terms, the judgement can see the minor's integration by a declaration of educational success. The new criminal procedure architecture for minors significantly improves the treatment of the victim. Indeed, from the time of the examination of guilt, the victim will be heard and will be decided on his or her constitution as a civil party as well as on his or her prejudice. The victim will therefore be able to have his or her claim decided within three months of the referral to the court, compared with an average of 18 months currently. The topic of the simple presumption of irresponsibility of minors under 13 years of age is a subject of debate in our institution and society. At the same time, the child can be charged with an offence and found to be criminally irresponsible. Behind this apparent contradiction, there is a rigorous and philosophically modern definition of childhood: it refers to the time when the individual learns to become autonomous and takes on responsibility. This time must be protected, in particular in the event of a journey accident. To put it simply, nothing that is done in this period of time must be totally irremediable; juvenile delinquency is curable, and the door of a new chance should be left open to grassy perfection. Finally, the Law Commission made several adjustments, always in the direction of better protection of the rights of juvenile offenders, but also of society. In particular, we are thinking of making it compulsory to issue an educational interim measure for the juvenile to be placed in pretrial detention, and not only upon his release. This will ensure that educational work starts as early as possible, as soon as the minor is placed in pre-trial detention. The latter will be provided with a non-dry but accompanied release, based on a planned exit with which he will have been closely associated. We are also thinking of making it compulsory for the minor to be assisted by a lawyer, including a free hearing, in order to guarantee the best interests of the child. As you know, the Working Together Group is particularly committed to the search for measures to refocus the courts on their core mission and to improve the criminal response. In this regard, we can only welcome, on the one hand, the fact that the juvenile judge can issue educational sentences without the need to convene the Children's Court, and, on the other hand, the fact that the punishment takes place within a maximum of twelve months – three months for the judgement on guilt and a maximum of nine months for the educational test. Currently, procedures in this area last on average almost 18 months, which is far too long. The bill provides for the introduction of a new procedure in two stages: the admission of guilt of the young person, which must take place within weeks of the offence; the imposition of the penalty, which may be postponed in time. The conviction by a judge will thus take place in a time much closer to the time of the offence; The minor, supervised by educators, will then be put to the test a few months, and it is only after this period that the judge will pass the sentence, taking into account his behaviour. In keeping with what we had defended in one of our niches in Parliament, we particularly support article L. 13-4 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, under which, in accordance with article 10-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the victim and the offender may resort to restorative justice in any proceedings involving a minor. [[Applause on a few LaREM benches]] In conclusion, it is illusory to think that justice – which often discovers young offenders at the age of 14 or 15 – can solve problems without the support of parents, schools, businesses, training centres and even the army. It is society as a whole that must mobilize on the subject without giving in to passions. A juvenile offender is first and foremost a juvenile in distress; If society does not have to pay the price of this distress, however, every effort must be made to give these young people better prospects than the courts. Consequently, the Group of the European People's Party will of course vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u16	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u17	"Children have ways of seeing, thinking, feeling that are their own; Nothing makes any less sense than wanting to replace ours. This quote by Jean-Jacques Rousseau reflects, in our view, the spirit that must guide the writing of a code of juvenile criminal justice. Following the adoption of the amendment to the previous seal guard introduced on the 2018-2022 programming bill, a working group was set up, at the request of our group. It was essential for parliamentarians to be able to participate in the drafting of the order, on such a crucial subject. I would therefore like, in the preamble, to welcome Mrs Nicole Belloubet, who has completed this dialogue; Our group is pleased to have been able to push this method of work, which, with regard to orders, at least allows Parliament to be involved, rather than totally excluding it. It is rare for the ratification of an order to be debated; It is an experience to be renewed – even if, of course, we would have preferred to avoid the use of a prescription. We did not vote against the government amendment and we proposed this method because we were aware of the need for reform of juvenile criminal justice, which is already too often postponed, so that the texts could be clarified, modernised and readable. In view of these objectives, we welcome the desire for a clearer procedure, a single educational measure and the determination of an age threshold. But a reform of the 1945 Ordinance cannot be limited to that. What we do with juvenile criminal justice is deeply philosophical; It is also the legal translation of political convictions. Thus, historically, the 1945 Ordinance is the result of the gradual consideration of the need to assign a specific status to child offenders. Therefore, the choice was made to give priority to education over repression, a principle which has acquired constitutional value. This choice is not a matter of naivety or angelism, but of the certainty that the child offender is an adult and an emerging citizen, it is essential to try to show him a better way. On the basis of these beliefs, however, juvenile criminal justice is not more lax: 93 per cent of cases receive a criminal response. Far from the potential agitation of the debates, it is therefore up to us collectively to question the possible responses to these minors. We must leave aside the clichés so as not to reduce the discussion to a frontal opposition between the supporters of education and those of repression. Far from mediating the feeling of insecurity, we must bear in mind that education takes time. In this sense, the caesure procedure seems to us to be a good thing, the three proposed phases of guilt, education and, if necessary, punishment, make sense in a progressive criminal response centered on the educational modules. With regard to the age limit below which a child has a presumption of non-discernment, we also believe that the text provides some clarification. On the other hand, on the merits, there will be no real difference with the provisions of article 122-8 of the Criminal Code; Indeed, the judge remains in final decision-making. Personally, I believe that this presumption should be irrefutable, as it would constitute a real additional protection for children. As far as penalties are concerned, we must also bear in mind that pre-trial detention and prison must be the last resort, since their educational contribution is obviously very moderate. In the end, the greatest novelty of the text is that of the place of the prosecutor's office, which replaces compulsory education. This process still needs to be proven, always in the best interests of the child. All these elements, of course, must be considered in accordance with the guiding principles governing juvenile criminal justice. However, in order to be fully respected, the principles must not suffer too many exceptions. However, if they are constantly reaffirmed in theory, they suffer a procedural and practical hazard due to lack of resources. Even more so than for the justice of the majors, we cannot be content with palliation because of the lack of resources. And this is where it hurts with this reform. Indeed, if, in essence, it seems satisfactory, the major challenge will be in its implementation, on an almost constant basis. We have heard, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, what you are proposing, but you know very well that this will be insufficient: the lack of parquet floors forces you to foresee cases in which they may not be specialized; the lack of resources allocated to the PJJ – the judicial protection of young people – makes us very much afraid of the failure of the time of educational césure; you are considering the use of video-audience devices, etc. The issue of timeliness is also a matter of concern. All the actors in the field are concerned about it, by the way. In a world where justice would not suffer from a chronic lack of resources, the procedure you propose, in a shorter time frame, would be very positive for minors; Nevertheless, in the world you impose on us, there is room for doubt. In addition, there are still many flaws. I am thinking of the health field: in 2009, I drafted an information report on the health, psychological and psychiatric care of minors; The situation was then deplorable and since then nothing has changed. I would also like to stress one point which seems to us to be a real gap in this order: nothing specific is foreseen for repeaters or repeat offenders. However, we believe that, overall, juvenile criminal justice is working rather well. Indeed, almost 80 per cent of minors who pass before a judge never see him again. On the other hand, for the others, the difficulties are crystallized: a multitude of offences of various gravity, replies too delayed, passage of the minor from judge to judge without any further reference and entanglement, as and when, in crime. In this specific case, the answer must be much faster and more priority, or even pronounced by a specialized chamber: this more prompt judicial reaction would make it possible to propose a pedagogy and accompaniment with meaning in relation to the act committed, in order to avoid its repetition. Finally, it seems very important to stress that, if we deal here with the consequences, we must not neglect the causes. Indeed, trying to curb juvenile delinquency requires a thorough reflection on its origins: the failure of the traditional institutions of school or family, the rise in power of what lawyer Denis Salas called "exclusion crime" or the lack of adequate care for minors in difficulty are all complex and structural problems on which society as a whole must question. Finally, I would like to refer to New Caledonia, which is characterized by a high level of involvement of young people in crime: a quarter of those involved are under the age of 18, and this rate has steadily increased in recent years. In the context of the preparation of the present reform, our colleagues Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès stressed the need to take into account the local, social and cultural specificities of New Caledonia, in particular the special role of custom, a prerequisite for better apprehension and treatment of juvenile delinquency in that territory. They therefore welcomed the introduction in the text of two measures advocated by the Congress of New Caledonia in its opinion on the draft ordinance: the participation of persons from the customary sphere in the various stages of criminal proceedings for minors and the guarantee of representation of the minor, even in the absence of a lawyer. As with the establishment of community-interest sentences for institutions of customary law in New Caledonia, these new provisions demonstrate the value of State consideration of recommendations made at the local level in the area of justice. In conclusion, we regret that this debate begins on a Thursday, either interspersed with the examination of several texts and undermined by health conditions – it would have deserved a little more consideration. However, beyond these organizational arrangements, far from examining a technical text, we are starting a discussion that engages future generations and obliges us because it touches on the foundations of our common values.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u18	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u19	Like many here, I would like to stress that reforming juvenile criminal law by order clearly poses a democratic problem. If, at the end of the Second World War, the use of ordinances could be explained, I see nothing today that justifies this way, which has become systematic, of writing the law. I very much acknowledge, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that you have nothing to do with it, and that the former lawyer you are certainly would have preferred a bill in good form to discuss this fundamental subject for the future of the country, because we are talking about youth, for the preservation of the safety of our fellow citizens, because we are talking about criminal law, and even for the defence of our civilization, because we are talking about education. I also recognize that the rewriting of criminal law concerning minors, in order to give it more clarity and to simplify the procedures, the aim being to judge juvenile offenders faster and to hope for their return to the right path as quickly as possible, is rather in the right direction,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u20	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u21	... as well as the measure of fixing the presumption of discernment at 13 years. Another reason, and not least, should have allowed us to welcome this work on juvenile criminal law: the obvious failure of policies in this field for decades, especially in the last decade or so. As all statistics show and, more importantly, as many of our fellow citizens are experiencing, juvenile delinquency continues to increase in volume and intensity, and more seriously, recidivism is also on the rise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u22	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u23	However, juvenile delinquency is a scourge that demoralizes our compatriots and our law enforcement forces. How to not understand it when, very often, hardly the aggression, theft or degradation committed, they can find its perpetrator at the corner of the street and sometimes even in the process of taunting them. On this point, I do not have too many illusions, the penal code, whether it concerns minors or adults, remains a toolbox that can be done what we want, including not using it, as is unfortunately often the case. The essential thing is not so much in the text as in the political choice almost assumed to render the provisions concerned ineffective by lack of instruction. However, I fear that at almost all levels, from the custody of seals to the direction of the judicial protection of young people, to the judges for children, the anti-penal culture or even the excuse is still the norm;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u24	There are even people who refuse to appear before the judge when they are summoned: you for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u25	... this culture has shown for years its limits and even a dangerousness whose first victims are the young offenders themselves. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Juvenile delinquency seems to become a kind of initial training before integrating adult delinquency, since criminal quasi-impunity is too often analysed as moral impunity, with the transition to the age of 18 resetting the counters to zero. But this culture has become so ideological that you will not be able to get out of it; For example, the concept of punishment should be included in the juvenile penal code. A violation of the law deserves a sanction, which is obviously adapted to the author's age. Work of general interest must become possible from the age of 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u26	The youth camps: Maréchal, here we are!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u27	Yesterday, at the age of 13, our parents began their active life;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u28	We're not in the 19th century anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u29	...also, I believe that offenders can fully support TIGs. Another proposal which, along with others, will undoubtedly drive our debates: it has become necessary to lower the criminal majority to 16 years. Indeed, it is urgent that those who commit acts of particular gravity at the age of 16 be judged as adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u30	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, They're still children!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u31	It is time to bring out children's courts, young people who are no longer involved, these minors who are sometimes dangerous and, for some, enkysted in crime. Yes, these young people symbolize all the failures – educational, societal, political, family – but honest people, especially those living in working-class neighbourhoods, do not have to suffer the consequences on a daily basis. Of course, for minors between the ages of 16 and 18, the judge may still, by a reasoned decision, decide to apply the Juvenile Penal Code. For those over the age of 16, it may already exceptionally derogate from the excuse of a minority; We therefore simply propose to reverse the logic. Since time is short, I cannot speak of two fundamental subjects, little or no dealt with by this ordinance: the empowerment of parents...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u32	We're sometimes her father's daughter...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u33	... and, of course, the case of isolated minors. In conclusion, I am not one of those who wanted to sacrifice the 1945 order and I consider it normal for minors to have the right to a more flexible, diversified and educationalist-oriented regime, while allowing the judge to be repressive if the facts and personality of the author so require. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We shall therefore vote in favour of this text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u34	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u35	... while knowing that without a radical change in political orientation, this toolbox will take the dust, which, alas, could worsen the delinquency of minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u36	We're not in Fréjus anymore...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u37	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u38	I hear the answer, briefly, to each of you. Mr. Bernalicis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u39	Present!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u40	...you were the first to intervene in the general discussion. The provision on discernment, for me, is better than an age limit, better than a dry limit. You can have more discernment at 12 years of age than at 14. What you omit in your reasoning – and that is frankly a pity because otherwise we could agree – is that sometimes a 12-year-old needs justice, often, by the way, because he came out, as you recalled, of an educationally cared environment. Perhaps this 12-year-old needs a judge to stop for a moment and have an officer of the PJJ accompany him. I do not understand your reasoning on this subject, but we will be able to debate it at length. [[Smile on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to take this opportunity to thank each other for pointing out how much, despite the procedure chosen, we have been able to discuss in committee. I therefore thank all those who have thanked me;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u41	We're in the theater, actually!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u42	[[Same movements]] ...it always feels good to hear – a little stealthy caress on a fragile ego without a doubt... Mrs Buffet, again, but what a shame! One of our privileged witnesses, Mr Balanant, pointed out that we had repeatedly agreed in the Committee on Laws. Why then do we separate at this moment? Why does everyone return for reasons of ideological, political posture?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u43	Oh! What posture? Stop with that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u44	On a number of points, however, I am certain that we will reach an agreement. Your group, this morning, defended a motion of rejection that was rejected. Of the two concerns that you have brought to our attention, which I consider to be legitimate, I will try to reassure you. First of all, this reform is the result of consultation with more than 1,000 stakeholders: ministers, parliamentarians, child protection specialists – I have already mentioned it and I regret not having convinced you. As the second warning point, the fundamental principles of criminal justice are not only respected but reaffirmed in the preliminary article: they therefore remain our only compass. On such matters, Mr Savignat, we can agree. We have differences, of course, and that is quite normal – this is the privileged place to express them, in the context of the democratic debate. The subject before us calls on all of us to assume political responsibility. The Republican Group is responding to this call and I welcome it. [[Smile]] I have little to say to you, Mr. Balanant, because you agree with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u45	Thank you, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u46	This leads me to shorten my speech, and I assume you will be grateful for it. However, I recognize the importance of the educational component. Mrs Untermaier, juvenile delinquency has not increased – I will repeat it to the last speaker in a moment. This crime has changed – perhaps just like the whole society. I will try to tell you again, during the discussion, what new means we have made available to the judicial institution to ensure that this reform comes into force without difficulty. Mr Houbron, as you know, there is consistency between the PPL improving the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response, which we have defended and which was voted on here at first reading, and this text. We want systematic justice, we want prompt justice, we want proportionate justice. Mr Zumkeller, you say that there is no provision for repeat offenders and repeaters. The new procedure allows for a closer criminal response: it will reduce the share of repeaters, which currently amounts to 16 per cent. Mrs. Le Pen,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u47	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u48	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM group]] ...what a privilege for me to finally hear you. I have been keeping the seals for almost six months, and I have seen you for a few minutes at every question-and-answer session in the Government. You said this morning, to criticize the Government's health policy, that you did not understand the decisions taken for winter sports, as we spend days side by side in Parliament – actually I didn't see you very much. That was the morning lie. I also note that you have sweetened your speech of Fréjus against me, the one in which you devoted me twenty minutes by comparing me to "Christiane Taubira at worst".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u49	Without poetry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u50	[[Smile. – Mr Erwan Balanant and Mr Jimmy Pahun applaud]] So when I received Mrs. Taubira at the Chancery, I called her Mrs. Dupond-Moretti better. I know you're saving me a few banana skins, like the ones you've once thrown at his feet, you and yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u51	That's right! Shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u52	There is the morning lie and there are those of this afternoon: you put them on like pearls. On the numbers, you're lying. You can gine numbers of recidivism, and your voters may be attentive and greedy, but you lie, madame: they are not the right ones, nor are they the ones relating to delinquency. We know it here, and you would know it if you had been here this morning, where they have been mentioned many times. [[Rires on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your program, basically modo, is 7-77-year-old prison. But now I don't know how weak you are, you'd agree with us. Frankly, I congratulate you, for this law is a good law. The repression, whatever you do, for the kids, it doesn't work; education, as well as rapid responses, are needed to ensure that victims are immediately taken into account. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] You have tabled an amendment that I am saddened by. I said we don't see each other very much; We saw each other more at the courthouse in Paris. I was a lawyer, you keep reminding him, but you, too, forgot him; We were both lawyers and it's not a disgrace, it's not mine anyway. This significant amendment, which I shall be talking about for a moment, is eating away. I'm going to call on one of my memories and then I'm going to sit down. A single woman in difficulty raises three children; Her husband's gone. Two of his children are educated and of no problem, but one of them is delinquent, which can happen to others – I said this morning that we were talking about children, about our children. You wish, ma'am, that this woman would be deprived of her social benefits. So I'll tell you, we're what we say and sometimes we say what we are.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u53	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u54	I have before me two amendments, Nos 129 and 83, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u55	The preliminary article refers to the principles of the Code. The principles are very important; I have mentioned this in the general discussion because I trust that these are included in the code, not the exceptions to these principles, which are included in a preliminary article to please each other. The principles, I believe! That is why, whenever the keeper of the seals uses the principles to respond to amendments from the right or the far right, I agree; But it is necessary to complete the drafting of this preliminary article and then draw all the consequences. We therefore propose, by this amendment, to add in the preliminary article a reference to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 20 November 1989, which has been celebrated recently every thirty years, and to recall what the 1945 Ordinance says – this is already the case in the article as drafted at this stage, but it is necessary to be precise, so that everything is clear for the future. I take the opportunity of this first amendment to point out to you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that an irrefragable presumption at 14 does not mean that the 12-year-old cannot see a judge. It's not knowing the justice of children! By whom is educational assistance pronounced if it is not by a judge? This is even the main part of his activity! There will also be an irrefutable presumption tomorrow! It is simply that we absolutely impose that criminal sanctions should not be imposed below a certain age. This does not mean that there is nothing, only that penalties and sanctions should not be used, as in other countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u56	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u57	It seeks to amend the preliminary article of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code in order to recall the need for it to retain its specificity and to give priority to education. We propose a new wording of this article in order to make explicit reference to the preamble to the Ordinance of 2 February 1945, to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 20 November 1989 and to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular Article 24 thereof, on the rights of the child. We believe that a reform of the criminal law of delinquent children must remain faithful to the humanist and pragmatic principles of these various founding texts. These texts also emphasize that children have the right to protection. Every child in conflict with the law is a child at risk, and juvenile criminal justice should be considered only in a continuum with child protection. This amendment, making explicit reference to the founding texts of the rights of the child, aims to reaffirm that the child offender must remain a child and that a balanced and educational response must be provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u58	Mr. Jean Terlier, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u59	We have already discussed this in committee. We agree, Mr Bernalicis, that we all believe in principles, and that is precisely why we recall them in the preliminary article: the principles of the 1945 Ordinance, the primacy of education over repression, the mitigation of sentences for a minor, specialization. I believe that we must stick to these great principles. You would like to add a reference to the preamble of the order, which is not normative in nature and which I find difficult to add in the opening article. Similarly, you would like to add a reference to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Your idea, if I understand correctly, is actually to assert the best interests of the child; later, like many groups, we will present an amendment introducing this concept into the preliminary article. At this stage of our discussions, I therefore give an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u61	The rapporteur has said everything and we are on exactly the same line in this respect; I won't say any more because I'd probably say less than he would. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u62	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u63	As the rapporteur said, the preliminary article does not necessarily have a normative scope. If he had one, the police court could impose sanctions on minors, since it was a derogation from the principle of speciality. So you see why we are also committed to principles and their subsequent declination. By opening the code, the preliminary article is the first thing to fall on. Any student or student magistrate, anyone interested in juvenile criminal justice will read this first article. That is why I believe it is important to recall both the principles in question and the historical construction journey – 1945, 1989, the fundamental laws of the Republic – and to put it in perspective, to recall its meaning. The legislator would thus do useful work for everyone, for all citizens. I am really in favour of the principles being listed, not just referring to the "best interests of the child"; In fact, the preliminary article is very long. Often the manner in which the law is drafted means that the meaning and historical trajectory of the law are forgotten. The wording we propose is not optimal because we could have replaced the word "minors" with the word "children", as our communist colleagues suggest, or not to speak of "child delinquency" but of childhood in conflict with the law... There would be a way to improve the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u64	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 127.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u65	We wish to replace the word "minors" with the word "children" and to add that the measures have a meaning of "protection, assistance, supervision and education" in order to clarify their objective. Perhaps we have reached a consensus on the word "children", the keeper of the seals having said his attachment to this term in his opening remarks. This would be consistent with the current judicial structures since we have a juvenile judge, a juvenile court, perhaps, one day next, a juvenile police court, who knows... Having a code of child justice – "childhood" would have been even better – seems to me to be moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u66	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u67	We have already had in committee the debate on the term "minors" and its replacement with the term "children". The first seems to be more legally appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u68	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u69	It is found in many places, whether in the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and even the Code of Social Action, where it is referred to as "minors in danger". So we must not get out of it. Furthermore, it is recalled that this does not degrade the protection of the minor rather than describe him as such rather than as a "child". The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u70	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u71	Since we are writing the law, we must choose the most appropriate term. You want "children", "adolescents" and "pre-adolescents". But how do we distinguish the child from the adolescent and the pre-adolescent? While there is the Children's Court, "minors" is the most appropriate term, as is mentioned here. We are not going to fight for semantic questions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u72	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u73	... especially since it is not because we say "minors" that we do not think "children".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u74	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u75	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u76	You yourself stress that there is confusion, Mr. Keeper of Seals. Depending on the circumstances, you say, we choose the most appropriate term – "children" or "minors" – but what is the most appropriate term? Since the word "minors" seems to you the most appropriate in legal terms, why don't you propose to rename the juvenile court as "juvenile court"? If, in the preliminary article of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, which has no normative scope, we are not able to write the word "children", then we can stop right there! It seems to me that it is precisely here in the text that the term must appear. As for the word "adolescents", you may have noted that we have deleted it from our amendments since the work in committee. We admit, in fact, that it would oblige us to enter into the definition of different ages and that the word "children" seems to be the clearest, in particular because it is the one used in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[Exclaims on various benches]] Finally, Mr rapporteur, let me make one point clear so that this debate does not go wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u77	It's going very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u78	When you give the opinion of the commission, do not start systematically with: "We have already discussed it in committee", implying that we are drinking you, that you will not answer at length and that we will proceed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u79	You could respect the rapporteur a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u80	I'm starting to have a little experience with this shop.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u81	We know you too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u82	Parliament is not a shop! We'll have heard everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u83	Believe me, we won't have a good debate if you do that! All the more so as you are mistaken: we have not already discussed the subject in committee since I have amended the amendment, precisely to delete the word "adolescents". You didn't even notice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u84	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr Bernalicis, let me remind you that we are not here in any place. The National Assembly cannot be described as a shop.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u85	I have before me five amendments, Nos 128, 18, 96, 344 and 402, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 96, 344 and 402 are identical. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 128.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u86	By this amendment, we propose to clarify, from the preliminary article of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors, in accordance with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, that a child is defined as any human being under the age of 18 – it goes better by saying so – and that the best interests of the child are a primary consideration in any act or decision affecting him. I understand, according to the rapporteur, that some of the amendments to this joint debate have been considered by the committee in a good way. I imagine that they also relate to the concept of the best interests of the child, to which we are very attached, which we have explained in committee to a great extent. We would therefore be pleased if this concept were included in the preliminary article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u87	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u88	You will have noticed, Mr Bernalicis, that after reminding us that we had already dealt with the subject in committee, I took care to answer you before I sat down; So it was not a dry answer! Beyond the choice between the terms 'children' or'minors' – of which we have, for the time being, widely debated – Amendments Nos 96, 344 and 402, which we are going to consider in a moment, address the issue of the best interests of the child. That is why, Mr Bernalicis, I invite you to withdraw your amendment for their benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u89	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u90	It seems to me that I have already answered: unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u91	Are you withdrawing your amendment, Mr Bernalicis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u92	I don't understand, Madam President. Was it not a joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u93	Yes, but I made a mistake. I propose that we conclude the discussion of this amendment and then resume the joint discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u94	All right. I maintain my amendment because it has two dimensions, one of which is not included in the following identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u95	You'll have the opportunity to come back, I guess...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u97	We therefore resume the joint discussion. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 18 and Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u98	Its purpose is to include in the preliminary article the main principle of juvenile justice, enshrined in international law and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child: the best interests of the child. The following sentence would be added: "In all decisions, the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration. » As for Amendment No 96, he took up Alexandra Louis' proposal to insert the words "in their best interests" in the preliminary article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u99	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor to support Amendment No. 344.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u100	We come back to a very important subject: the best interests of the child. Like many other groups – which we welcome – ours is very committed to this principle, which we have discussed at length in the Committee on Laws, with the aim of finding the most appropriate wording. I would point out that the preliminary article of a code is very important: it is of course the first one to read, but above all the one that allows to remove a doubt or to shed light in case of difficulty in interpreting a provision; He sets the tone of the whole code. It is for this reason that it is our heart that the best interests of the child appear alongside the main principles referred to in the preliminary article: the primacy of education over repression, the reduction of criminal responsibility according to age and the specialization of juvenile courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u101	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 402 and to give the committee's opinion on the others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u102	It is the same as the two previous ones, which Mrs Untermaier and Louis defended very well. I am against Amendment No 18 and in favour of Amendments Nos 96 and 344, identical to my own.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u103	What is the Government's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u104	I call for Amendment No 18 to be withdrawn – failing which the opinion will be unfavourable – in favour of identical Amendments Nos 96, 344 and 402, to which the Government is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u105	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u106	I am obviously pleased that these three identical amendments have received a favourable opinion from the rapporteur and the guardian of the seals, and that the concept of the best interests of the child is incorporated into the preliminary article, but you know what I am talking about. I regret that a different approach prevailed last week when we considered the bill to reform the adoption. I am well aware that this text was part of the Civil Code, while we are now discussing juvenile criminal justice, but harmonization would have been welcome between the two texts. It would have been good last week to mention the best interests of the child, which the Government unfortunately did not want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u107	I have before me two amendments, Nos 238 and 53, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 238.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u108	It was tabled on the initiative of Fabien Di Filippo and it is defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u109	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u110	Filed by the Republicans Group, it aims to clarify that the removal of the minority apology can be decided for a minor over 16 years of age, depending on the seriousness of the facts he has committed and his personality. The judge will thus enjoy a free assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u112	On Amendment No 238, the opinion is unfavourable. As for number 53, I think he is satisfied. Mr Pauget, I refer you to the provisions of article L. 121-7 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, according to which it is possible, on an exceptional basis, to exclude the reduction of the sentence for a minor over the age of 16. Therefore, the proposed clarification does not appear necessary. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u114	My position is identical, for exactly the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u115	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u116	It has already been discussed by the Law Committee, but I wanted it to be discussed again in a public meeting. It seems to me important to clarify that juvenile justice requires a specialized court and that the juvenile judge is competent in civil and criminal matters. In committee, you chose not to mention it in the preliminary article. I have no doubt that you will maintain this position, which I regret. In any event, I would like to hear a reaffirmation in the parliamentary debate in open session that it is essential that juvenile justice requires a specialized court and that the juvenile judge is competent in both civil and criminal matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u118	We agree: the juvenile judge is competent in civil and criminal matters. However, the draft law on the criminal justice of minors, it would not be appropriate to include this clarification in the text: request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u120	The Government shares this position. The Juvenile Criminal Justice Code does not, as you know, call into question the juvenile protection office in danger of the judge. The Code provides for the possibility for the public prosecutor to refer the case to the juvenile judge for educational assistance, regardless of whether criminal proceedings are instituted. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory, Mrs Untermaier, and the Government is against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u121	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 277.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u122	It aims to recall the primacy of education over repression and the fact that there can be no sanctions or penalties without educational measures being tried in advance. It is important to write it black on white so that there is never the shadow of a doubt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u124	I would like to reassure you, Mr Bernalicis: there is no doubt that the preliminary article gives precedence to education over repression. Recall the terms of article L. 11-3 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code: "Minors convicted of a criminal offence may be subject to educational measures and, if circumstances and their personality so require, to be punished. Since the subsidiary nature of the sentence is clear, I believe that your amendment is satisfactory and I invite you to withdraw it; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u126	[[Smile]] Must I piss you off, Mr. Bernalicis, what I really don't want,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u127	I'm gonna get pissed off on my own!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u128	... I would like to recall that we have already dealt with this essential issue in committee. Articles L. 11-2 and L. 11-3 should reassure you completely. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u129	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u130	I'm not completely reassured...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u131	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u132	...because the words "may be the subject of educational measures" and "if circumstances and their personality so require" leave the field open for interpretation. The rapporteur said that the penalty was subsidiary, but the text did not explicitly specify it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u133	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u134	In practice, that was the case, which was to be welcomed, but the code would not expressly prohibit the imposition of penalties if educational measures had not been tried. In fact, many exceptions are provided for in the Code, enabling the prosecution to proceed directly to the sentence in a single hearing, since the court for children may be brought before the court. I probably get into the technique, but that's the reality. The police court has taken a lot of care of us in committee, as you know, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. However, in the police court, there is no primacy of education over repression.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u136	That's an exception! This is better by saying it and writing it: the primacy of education over repression must underpin the entire code. Obviously, that is not your political objective. I therefore understand that you are against the amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u137	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u138	I'm so eager to convince you that I'm coming back for two seconds and then... I don't have the taste for useless effort either! With regard to detention, liberty is the rule and pre-trial detention is the exception. This does not prevent a JLD – a judge of liberty and detention – from detaining someone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u139	I agree with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u140	[[Smile]] Here, primacy is educative, but it does not prohibit sanctions in certain exceptional circumstances, on an exceptional basis – I repeat – or exceptionally, if you prefer adverb! You don't want to hear it because you want to make us dreadful liberticides who absolutely want to lock up kids, kids, teenagers in jail. It's caricature! Read the text objectively!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u141	That's all I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u142	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u143	It's funny that you took as an example the fact that the JLDs can pronounce pre-trial detention on an exceptional basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u144	I'm gonna throw myself out the window!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u145	It turns out that remand centres have a significant proportion of people in pre-trial detention, which is a fundamental problem! We see how an exception becomes a central problem in prison management. Let's put this aside because, in the end, your argument is more in my mind. Let us return to this amendment, which creates an irrefutable presumption of criminal irresponsibility before the age of 14 and leaves the possibility of an assessment of discernment beyond that age. In fact, we accept the ability to discern while excluding the possibility of a sentence for minors under 14 years of age. In doing so, we align ourselves with the practices of a number of our European partners. You say you have undertaken a codification that no one had wanted to do for thirty years, to have worked, to have met many people. But the best signal to show that things are progressing and that the existing one is improving would be to include in the legislation this irrefragable presumption of criminal irresponsibility before the age of 14. As you yourself indicated in your reply to the general discussion, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, this does not mean that nothing can be done when a minor is under the age of 14, but it means that, in this case, only civil measures of educational assistance can be taken in an open or strengthened environment. These measures, which are not anodized or cosmetic, constitute the bulk of the activity of children's judges. In classical educational assistance, a professional visits the family's home once a month to accompany the parents and the child. I will come back to the other measures later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u146	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u147	First of a long series,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u148	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u149	...this amendment relates to the important issue of the age of criminal responsibility of the minor. In this case, you want that age to be set at 14 years and that an irreflagable presumption of criminal irresponsibility prevails before. Under the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, we are planning, as you know, a presumption of non-discrimination for minors under the age of 13 and, on the contrary, a presumption of discernment for older minors. For my part, I am convinced that the irrefutable presumption of criminal irresponsibility is a good thing in juvenile criminal justice. The juvenile judge must be able to assess the situation of a minor of 12, 13 or 14 years of age, which constitutes a somewhat grey area in which children of the same age may have different levels of maturity. However, as you see it here, the irrefragable presumption of criminal irresponsibility would be counterproductive in relation to the intended purpose. It seems to me appropriate to have an adversarial debate on the discernment of the minor concerned and, at the same time, the judge's assessment of the degree of maturity of the minor and a possible lifting of the irrefragable presumption of criminal irresponsibility. Let us trust this specialized justice. Let the children's judges make hand-sewn in these situations and finely appreciate that such a child under the age of 13 is discerning and that another 14 is not. We must keep this very important flexibility in terms of simple presumption. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u150	[[At 4:20 p.m., Sylvain Waserman replaced Annie Genevard in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u152	Mr Bernalicis, I do not know how many amendments to come relate to the same issue, the wording of which is sometimes different from a word or a comma. I'll try to answer you once and for all. We have chosen a presumption of non-discernment for minors under 13 years of age, without anything irrefragable. Why? For this would be contrary to what governs the evolution of a child. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis laughs]] Please remember, if you will – the imperative is forbidden to me when I speak to you – that it is not the code that knows the child, but the judge! It's not the text, it's the judge! Some 12-year-olds can't be left on the side of the road and need justice, I repeat! On the other hand, we're going to agree that some 14-year-olds don't have the discernment of 11, 12 or 13-year-olds! You have to leave it to the judge to appreciate! You can't rigidize everything! What is this ultra-tight, ultra-rigid administrative design? We're talking about kids, about kids! [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] Laugh if you want to, as much as you want! It's not justice with texts and tampons! I mean, this concept is extraordinary! It's the judge and not the code that knows the child, I'm telling you! I am against this amendment and against all those you have tabled in the same direction!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u153	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u154	Actually, I'm laughing because, basically, I'm sad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u155	You're hiding it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u156	You're gonna make me cry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u157	Yes! You repeat your arguments and I will repeat mine as long as it takes because I never despair. A 12-year-old needs justice, you say. The irrefragable presumption of criminal irresponsibility will not prevent him from going to the judge; The only difference is that it will only be able to be applied civil measures. By having the capacity to assess the discernment of a child under the age of 14, enjoying an irreflagable presumption of criminal irresponsibility, the judge will adjust the educational measure according to the situation. It may issue a simple or reinforced educational measure, provide for a professional to come to the family's home once a month or once a week, decide to involve several professionals, etc. Actually, that's what he's already doing. I'm not making up anything, but I'm saying one thing: you don't have to switch to the penal block. You can say that I have a dogmatic or ideological position on the subject. I prefer ideological because it means I have ideas. But yes, I am pursuing an idea: a child under the age of 14 must not be subject to any criminal measures. It's no more complicated than that. You can say it's rigid, strict, etc. Why did it make me laugh? Because you yourself have created a rigid, strict, bureaucratic time frame, with a stamp: the guilt hearing will have to take place within three months – not three months and a day or three months and two days but three months. I'll keep my other arguments for later.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u158	I have before me three amendments, Nos 138, 109 and 300, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 109 and 300 are identical. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u159	This appeal amendment, which sets the criminal majority at 16, will not fail to make you react, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, but, please, let me put aside the cartoons and let me explain. In fact, we could reverse all your answers to Mr. Bernalicis. Why wouldn't what you think is possible for those under the age of 13 be possible for those over the age of 16?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u160	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u161	In the general discussion, one of the speakers – I no longer know which one – lamented that judges were not trusted in this text. As for you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have come to say that the judge should be left to assess the situation. Minors under the age of 13 are presumed to be incapable of discernment, but in some cases this presumption may be ruled out by the judge. I would not have found it stupid or uninteresting, in a certain parallelism of forms, to be able to envisage that a minor under the age of 16 would not benefit from the minority excuse in certain cases, given certain circumstances, the offence, the offence or the crime committed and, of course, the personality of the minor concerned. If I insist, I have heard you well, in committee and again this morning in the sitting, reiterate your commitment to the fact that a minor remains a minor and that he is, if necessary, judged as such. In discussing with children's judges, I was struck by the fact that they were all attached to the idea of judging a minor as such – saying that, I agree with you. However, they also admitted that, in exceptional cases, some minors did not behave as children and that their cases would deserve to be examined on a case-by-case basis by the judges concerned. As for you, Mr. Rapporteur, you said that the magistrate had to evaluate the situation of a minor. What one can appreciate in a fine way for those under the age of 13, it seems to me to be equally fine for those over the age of 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u162	I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u163	This amendment by my colleague Eric Ciotti finally aims to take account of the construction of the adult. The child is not the same at 10, 11, 13, 16 or 18, the age at which the French citizen finally acquires the fullness of his rights. It is a question of considering that criminal responsibility is gradually being built: before 13 years, the presumption of irresponsibility applies; between 13 and 16 years of age, a criminal minority is in some way recognized and it is the juvenile judge who decides; From the age of 16, the case is passed to the criminal majority, but the case remains under consideration by the juvenile judge; After the age of 18, there is a full criminal majority. The process is gradual, as is the responsibility of individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u164	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 300.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u165	Mr. Keeper of the Seals,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u166	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u167	...I am sorry to have deprived you yesterday of my presence during your hateful and rather surprising eructation, it must be said, on the part of a minister belonging to a Government that has made the fight against hatred a priority. Let me point out to you that if you spent as much time working to improve justice as talking about me obsessively or following up on the amendments that were declared inadmissible, our compatriots would surely feel much safer. Finally, allow me to remind you – because you are a young minister or at least a recent minister – that I do not have to answer to you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u168	Neither do I!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u169	Give the judges an account, Mrs. Le Pen, they're looking for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u170	... neither on my presence nor on my absences in this Chamber. I will even teach you something incredible, taken directly from the Constitution: it is not up to me to be accountable here in this House, but it is up to you, minister, to be accountable to this House!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u171	I don't applaud, but you have to admit that she's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u172	Let's go to my amendment. I believe that the criminal majority must be set at 16 years of age. Of course, the court may, on the one hand, always take into account the age of the perpetrator, and, on the other hand, use the provisions of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, including for persons between 16 and 18 years of age, in specific and motivated cases. You said the company has changed; Of course, we must adapt our law accordingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u173	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u174	He'll be unfavorable. Mrs Ménard, I wanted to thank you for the positioning of your amendment. Your proposal does not suit us, but I would like to convince you that we can otherwise achieve the goal you are pursuing. You want, as a matter of principle, a 16-year-old to be judged as an adult.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u175	He's not the same judge!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u176	For our part, we want a 16-year-old to be considered a minor, but by allowing the judge a freedom of assessment as to the rules for mitigating sentences. In this regard, I refer to article 121-7 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code: "If the minor is over sixteen years of age, the Police Court, the Juvenile Court and the Juvenile Assize Court may, on an exceptional basis and taking into account the circumstances of the case and the personality of the minor as well as his or her situation, decide that the rules for mitigating the penalties should not be applied". In very specific cases, depending on the personality of the minor and the case at hand, the judge may already deprive a 16-year-old minor of the benefit of minority mitigation, this is already possible. What is very disturbing in these amendments is that you wanted to make an exception, a principle. As a matter of principle, a minor of 16 years of age cannot be considered and judged as a minor. However, it is possible to derogate from the rule in very specific cases, after a very fine assessment by the judge. In fact, you amendments seem to me to be satisfied with the current provisions of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u178	[[Smile]] The "young minister" will address the national representation...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u179	Drum rolls!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u180	...to remind you that when you're 16, you're not an adult. You wouldn't want a 16-year-old boy to vote, would you? Then why would you want him treated like an adult?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u182	There is a debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u183	I have heard your comments, Mrs Le Pen: you do not accept that I publicly say here, where our debates are probably broadcasted, that I never see you in the National Assembly. It is true, however, that for six months since I was a minister, I have seen you five minutes a week, during the question-and-answer sessions in the Government, and then you disappear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u184	You're not the keeper of the seals, you're the keeper!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u185	You're right to say that you don't have to answer to me, no more than I have to answer to you. So I say what I want, freely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u186	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Where are your deputies?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u187	We're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u188	As for the rest, your fear is easily explained: you know that, knowing a little bit about criminal matters, I can say that your programme in this area is zero! These are still the old stories, such as those we heard again yesterday afternoon. You have nothing to offer us, ma'am, except the dream and the baton – and the dream with the baton. And we should be convinced that if, what God does not like, you ever came to power, there would be no more delinquency in our country! Let's stop these chicayas: I said what I had to tell you. I will still make you notice, very kindly and respectfully, that it was you who started, by devoting twenty minutes of your speech to Fréjus – it was obviously much simpler, since I was not there. You must have missed me a lot! Now that I'm here, we can talk. Our personal dissension, however, has little interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u189	School Court Disputes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u190	[[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte applauds]] Mrs Ménard, we have already raised this issue in committee – because you, for the time being, are still present in the National Assembly, and I know the work you are doing there: there are some differences between them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u191	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u192	Firstly, the advocates of these amendments rely on the idea that juvenile delinquency would increase, which is not proven.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u193	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u194	Next, 16-year-olds are told that they have an obligation of education or training up to the age of 18, because individuals between the ages of 16 and 18 are still under construction and therefore have to be treated as minors, not as adults. All the laws we have been voting for years are aimed precisely at extending education and training as long as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and LaREM groups. – Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] These amendments therefore go against the evolution of society. I strongly oppose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u195	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u196	Some, at the beginning of our debates, criticized this text for being too repressive. We are now told that he would be too lax, which makes me think that we have probably found a balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u197	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u198	As usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u199	Let's talk about the criminal majority at 16. Who are we at this age? We're not an adult. However, as a matter of principle, you explain that a minor of 16 years of age should be tried as an adult. However, many experts explain over time that young people are becoming mature more and more later, contrary to what you claim, and that the fact that they are committing more offences – which remains to be demonstrated, since no figures have been put forward in our House to prove this assertion – does not mean that they should be answered by applying adult justice. I do not believe in such a solution, which seems illusory to me. What's the idea behind it? That we should punish and lock up more. It should be remembered, however, that the juvenile judge has all the necessary tools to punish a minor when necessary, systematically adding an educational component. You want to deprive children of educational measures, while they allow them to be reintegrated and put back on the right track! Such a measure would be counterproductive and would run counter to your objectives to combat recidivism. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Let's fight recidivism by educating and punishing our children when necessary: so we will respect our principles while being effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u200	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u201	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u202	I delight in the way Mrs. Louis, and perhaps a little bit of the seal guard, manipulates the art of caricature. I won't pretend to take that right away from them. Our amendment, however, is not as caricatural as they say: it is not intended to apply brutally to minors over 16 years of age a justice identical to that prevailing for adults, but to introduce an intermediate phase during which the minor incurs the same responsibility as a major, while continuing to report to the juvenile judge. The transition takes place gradually. I fully agree that at 16, we are not yet an adult. But we're not quite a child either.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u203	It's true, we're a minor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u204	Amendment No 111 by Mr Eric Ciotti is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u205	It is rather baroque to see Mr Ciotti table an amendment identical to that of Mr Taché, even if he was not supported. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u206	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u207	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u208	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u209	I am against this amendment because, as you know, I advocate the creation of an irrefragable presumption of criminal irresponsibility. I explained why earlier. It is very interesting to see you take part Mrs.Le Pen, the keeper of the seals – I might even find it nice – but we understand very well why you do it. If I were you, I'd be embarrassed too...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u210	I'm glad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u211	...that Mrs Le Pen supports my text and says it in the gallery: I would also like to overdo the disagreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u212	It's okay now!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u213	Because you never overdo your disagreements, do you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u214	Finally, it is with greed that I remember that you announced the day before yesterday a secret convergence between the National Rally and La France insoumée.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u215	The proof!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u216	And to say that some talk about useful idiots...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u217	Forgive me for telling you that convergence breaks out precisely before our eyes! Even when Mrs Le Pen tabled amendments calling for minors over the age of 16 to be judged as adults, instead of saying "no, no and three times no", you would reply that this is already possible in some cases. And you're happy about it? That's your point of view. I don't share it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u218	You weren't born that I was already against the National Front!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u219	It seems to me that you should come back to the bottom of the debate and take your positions to the end, with due respect for national representation. You're not here to give us lessons,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u220	I'm not ready to receive any from you either!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u221	...but to account for us. We will remind you as many times as you need, at the risk of being unpleasant. With regard to the presumption of criminal irresponsibility, as has been said,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u222	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u223	... researchers consider that childhood lasts up to a very advanced age. Some even go so far as to say that the brain becomes mature only after 30 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u224	Thank you, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u225	You see it: even for me, it can be complicated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u226	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u227	I would like to reply to the assertion that the increase in juvenile delinquency to which we intend to respond through these amendments would not be real. I will not discuss whether the feeling of an increase in delinquency is justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u228	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u229	Simply put, you know that we can get pretty much what we want to say about the numbers and that a drop in convictions is not necessarily synonymous with a drop in delinquency. If the judicialization of minors has not led to more convictions, it is also because, in recent times, the judiciary has increasingly developed and used alternatives to prosecution. Perhaps this clarification is such that everyone agrees: we can interpret the figures to deduce an increase, a decrease or a stability of delinquency, but there is a very logical explanation for this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u230	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u231	Mrs Ménard, the statistics to which you refer are not my figures: these are the figures. Mr Bernalicis, I probably have no lesson to teach you, but neither do I have any to learn from you. You're not the arbiter of elegance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u232	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u233	You weren't born that I was already opposing the National Front!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u234	So you're a dinosaur of politics!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u235	I have before me three amendments, Nos 54, 6 and 85, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u236	Written by members of the Republicans Group, it is intended to include in the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code that "the minority apology may be ruled out by the judge for minors over sixteen years of age, on an exceptional basis and taking into account the circumstances of the case and the personality of the minor and his or her situation". The free assessment of each case would thus be left to the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u237	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u238	I am surprised that these amendments, whose aims are completely opposed, are brought together in a joint debate. At the risk of irritating you, Mr Keeper of the Seals – I apologize in advance – I come back to the question of the irrefragable presumption of criminal irresponsibility that we wish, through this amendment, to set at 13 years. Of course, we trust the children's judge and we too are on the intelligence side: it is obviously essential that the sanction be left to the judge's discretion whenever possible. Simply put, the possibility of committing criminal responsibility only from a certain age has been introduced into several foreign legislations: Belgians, Portuguese and Dutch, who are as intelligent as we are and trust collective intelligence as well, have raised the question of the irrefragable presumption of criminal irresponsibility. Moreover, if I join you concerning discernment, Jacques Toubon, then Defender of Rights, explained in 2018 to the mission of information on juvenile justice, in a long study on this question, "that below a certain age, a child, if he may have understood and wanted his act," – the judge can decide on this, I agree – "has, on the other hand, hardly such an understanding of the criminal procedure in which he finds himself involved". This latter finding probably applies to some majors. This understanding is an essential aspect of discernment and appreciation. That is why I am basing myself on the opinion of the Defender of Rights: I understand the need to tell the child that he has done something wrong and that he must be summoned before the judge for that reason, but this does not seem to me incompatible with the irrefragable nature of the presumption of irresponsibility. The latter will simplify the work of the judge, who will rule in civil matters, will be able to mobilise the funds of the ESA and will take educational measures. The current situation is characterized by a lack of clarity and legibility, while the consequences of an irrefragable presumption of criminal irresponsibility would ultimately not be so serious and should not scare us: the situation of the minor concerned will always be subject to judicial treatment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u239	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u240	We also defend the irrefutable presumption of criminal irresponsibility. The way in which Mrs Ménard used your arguments in favour of the simple presumption to defend the lowering of the criminal majority to 16 years of age I am still a little more concerned and reinforces me in the idea of tabling this amendment. In committee, the rapporteur justified his preference for the simple presumption by pointing out that, as the Directorate for the Judicial Protection of Young People had indicated to him, "the hypothesis of an irrefragable presumption would have resulted in an impossibility of principle to provide a criminal response to acts committed by a minor under 13 years of age". Should we recall that the absence of a criminal prosecution does not mean an absence of response from the institution? This, I believe, is the heart of discord: we believe that an institutional response is necessary, but that it does not go through criminal channels. Moreover, if, as you can assure, the ambition of the text is to remain faithful to the 1945 order, that is to say, to the principle that the response of justice must always give priority to education, the creation of an irrefragable presumption of irresponsibility will encourage judges to propose educational measures that are ever more innovative, and not simply for children under the age of 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u241	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u242	I will repeat what I have said in committee. It is on this point that our opinions diverge – although not fundamentally, in reality. Understanding that some minors have committed a criminal offence and that a sanction is taken may be of interest to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u243	It's pedagogy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u244	Exactly! And we must speak of discernment, because it leads to criminal responsibility. Putting words on situations with clarity can be useful for a minor. The problem posed by the irrefragable presumption in relation to the simple presumption is that it removes all flexibility and any possibility of a concrete assessment of the situation of the minor, whether he is 10, 12 or 14 years old. Conversely, the simple presumption allows the judge to make a decision on the basis of well-defined criteria. For example, if a minor under the age of 13 is to be held criminally liable, he or she will have to justify his or her decision, which implies that he or she has the arguments to consider, from the evidence in his or her possession, that the minor is in a position to understand, capable of discernment. In fact, the simple presumption, which is more in line with the protection of minors under the age of 13, provides flexibility. It therefore seems irrelevant to me to make the presumption of non-discernment irrefragable. The amendment tabled by Mr Pauget seems to me to be satisfactory. Once again, I would ask you to refer to Article L. 121-7 of this Code on the issue of mitigation of sanctions – and not to the minority apology, as it is inappropriately stated in the amendment. It does not therefore seem relevant to me to include in this article the sentence that you propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u245	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u246	Unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u248	It is unfavorable for the reasons just mentioned by the rapporteur. We will be able to come back to the matter at a later stage. I was talking earlier about dogmatism. What scares you, in fact, is the word "criminal", which you think would cover the worst horrors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u249	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u250	We just want clarification!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u251	When an eight-year-old makes a mistake, mom or dad tell him why you don't have to do this. That's the educational response. But they also deprive him of television. That's what we call the criminal response. As the word indicates, it is a matter of giving a penalty. The whole thing is to know which one! In my opinion, as long as a kid is able to understand a sanction, that he is " discerning" as they say today, well he can receive it and, sometimes, she can even be useful to him. As I said earlier, it is not the penal code that knows the child, but the judge. Some judges will decide not to impose a criminal sanction because the child is not capable of discernment, others will judge in their soul and awareness that it is useful. As a lawyer, I have often been involved in juvenile courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u252	And I wasn't without a doubt born back then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u253	I've been doing this since 1984.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u254	I confirm it to you, I wasn't born! But Marie-George was!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u255	Mrs Untermaier, it cannot be said that these places are not nestled with benevolence: you can at least grant it to me. Within the justice system of our country, the one who cares for children is generally – and even, I should say, if I believe my memories of it – benevolent. You mustn't be afraid of words. I do not want us to move forward on this issue by taking ideological postures that would make us say, "My God! Penalties for children under the age of 13, what a heresy! No, not at all. It can be useful. A child who needs it would be, I allow myself to say – forgive my familiarity – next to the plaque. What guides us is the interests of the child. But sometimes this one passes through a criminal sanction: saying it does not make the keepers of seals that I am an ultra-repressive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u256	But then it won't change much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u257	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I am trying to find, on these issues, a way of balance and which is favourable to the children we have the responsibility for when they pass before the justice of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u258	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u259	I understand that Amendment No 54 is ultimately satisfied if we refer to the provisions to which you referred. However, since we set out in this article the main principles of the text and the law must be intelligible, it does not seem pointless to us to recall that, in a well-defined framework, as an exception to the general principle, a minor over the age of 16 can see the rule of mitigation of sentences lifted. It would indeed be a strong message to protect all these young minors who, because they want to imitate the older ones, follow leaders and often find themselves exploited, obviously for criminal purposes because those who use them know that they are under the jurisdiction of minors. In our view, it would be good to put this principle at the beginning of the text without trying to generalise it, since, unless I am mistaken, this amendment has been drafted with all the necessary caution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u260	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u261	[[Minister protested]] In the course of our discussions I come to question, I confess, the relevance of the simple presumption since you keep telling us that the judge's discernment is the only one that is worth it. It is for this reason that we wish to make the presumption irrefragable. You have kept repeating for a while that the judge had to decide and that it would be very good that way. You have told us about flexibility, Mr rapporteur. I believe in the one that can be demonstrated when choosing one answer or another. I believe a little less in the flexibility of principles – which, by the way, are not postures for me. The great principles, and I think you will agree with me, minister, are those that are believed; from which, sometimes, a certain rigidity. Here, we don't judge people. I am not here to judge your sincerity or your commitment. We are making the law, that is to say, we are looking at the situation by asking ourselves how to ensure that tomorrow our citizens are judged in good conditions. Yes, we sometimes have disagreements, and still happy! That's normal. But when we speak, it is not to judge anyone. We're in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u263	Who did I judge? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u264	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u265	We are not committed by dogmatism. This is an important question that has been asked. I am very pleased that you have provided for a simple presumption. It was not easy to get that choice accepted because, as we are well aware, this type of measure, in politics, immediately arouses an upsurge on the part of some, who cry out for impunity because they do not know the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u266	There's already progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u267	The announcement of the measure has, moreover, provoked attacks – which I myself have tried to challenge – on the part of the right, who considered that it opened the way to the reign of impunity. So we can't talk about dogmatism. Whether the presumption is simple or irrefragable, it does not change much. The thresholds have in any case been set in the Code: educational measures for all minors from 10 years of age, prison from 13 years of age. Whether the judge considers that the minor is capable of discernment or not, he will always have to apply this scale of sanctions. What will change, with this criminal conviction handed down by the judge, is that the punishment or educational measure will be entered in the juvenile's criminal record.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u268	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u269	Not necessarily!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u270	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] For this reason, for the sake of clarity, it should be made clear that for minors under the age of 13, the decision falls under the jurisdiction of the juvenile court judge, in civil cases, while beyond the age of 13 it falls under the jurisdiction of the criminal court – and so much so for the exceptions, as it is not always possible to provide for derogations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u271	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u272	This debate about the simple presumption and the irrefragable presumption, which we have already had in committee, is very interesting because it amounts to questioning – without judgment on my part, of course – the confidence that we give to our magistrates. First of all, it is important to say that, in general, irrefragable presumptions do not agree with criminal matters. Indeed, behind any criminal case, there are people.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u273	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u274	However, when there is a human being, the automaticity is very inadequate. The judge must therefore be given an opportunity to assess. Above all, I want to reiterate the concern expressed by my colleague Cécile Untermaier. In practice, the passage before a judge is lived differently by a minor, even 12 and a half years old – I have sometimes accompanied him – when the magistrate wears his criminal cap. This can even have an educational virtue. Who is best placed to know what is good for the minor, if not the judge? It seems to me important to remember that the judge knows the minor, that he has followed him, that he also relies on the information transmitted by the educators, sometimes even on expertise. Finally, it should not be forgotten that the simple presumption constitutes real progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u275	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u276	But they don't want to hear it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u277	So far, the question of non-discernment has been raised very little. Most of the time, these 12-year-olds were tried, and their criminal liability could be incurred. From now on, it will be up to the prosecutor to demonstrate that the minor is capable of discernment, not the other way around. I will go further: the debate on discernment will arise more often about children aged 13 and a half years. Perhaps, for some young people of this age, lack of discernment will be invoked by the lawyer and then the approach will be different. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As I have often said in committee, I will remind you that the idea behind the simple presumption is the need to trust the judges who do good work and who know these minors well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u278	Why set a three-month deadline, then? You don't trust the magistrates?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u279	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u280	I am listening to this debate with interest. From the beginning, I preferred that the presumption of non-discernment for minors under the age of 13 be made irrefragable. However, as Mrs Untermaier has just said, this is not going to change much, in reality. What is important is that the vote we are going to take is real progress. Mr Bernalicis, stop taking your head into your hands, you're ridiculous. While there is no threshold so far, one has been set at 13 years, which seems to me to be a balanced solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u281	Is this going to change, or is it not?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u282	As Alexandra Louis has said, who knows the matter well because she has been a lawyer with young people, the judge and the lawyer will be able to carry out a real educational work. While I am still in favour of an irrefragable presumption, I would like to stress that the principle of non-discernment for minors under 13 years of age is a great step forward. That is the reality, and that is what we must remember. If, whenever progress is made, it is said that we are not making progress on the pretext that we could have gone further, well, indeed, we will never make progress. Political responsibility consists, for the majority, in highlighting the progress made and for the opposition, sometimes admitting, when it is the case, that a decision has made it possible to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u283	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u284	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u285	Mrs Faucillon, I do not think I have been discourteous or incorrect towards you. I have simply allowed myself to say that, in my opinion, you were adopting a dogmatic posture, and I hope that you will grant me the freedom to express such words in our discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u286	Perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u287	I will give you an example of the perverse effect that the irrefragable presumption can have. In our streets, there are 12-year-olds who commit theft. They are recruited because of their criminal irresponsibility. It's terrible, but we can't stop it. What's even worse is that 12-year-olds arrive at the judge's house with words that I can't repeat here – but you can imagine – because they know that no punishment will be imposed on them. If you see this as progress, vote what you are proposing; But for me, it's a step backwards. The words spoken by these kids, I'll tell you because I remember. These are words that shock us and disturb us, because they mean that 12-year-olds have integrated the idea that, thanks to their impunity, everything was allowed to them. I think it is not desirable to put in their heads the idea that they can fly without fear of being punished – neither for us nor for them. That is why I prefer a pragmatic solution to a dogmatic solution. You mustn't be afraid of words. As I have already said, your colleague Alexandra Louis knows; and many others among you, including Naïma Mouthou, have been lawyers and know this justice dedicated to children,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u288	It's not just lawyers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u289	... as many magistrates know it: it is not a justice where one feels malice, quite the contrary! I really think the children's judges are watching the kids with great kindness. But, I tell you with great courtesy, Member, if you think it is good that a 12-year-old is convinced that he will not be subject to any punishment after committing offences, vote what you want to vote for: it is your choice, and I do not dispute it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u290	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u291	Setting an age, in this case 13 years, for the recognition of criminal responsibility is, of course, a step forward...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u292	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u293	... since no threshold was set until then in France. But you have nevertheless felt the need, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to recognize a presumption, but only simple, of non-discernment before 13 years. I take the example of the minister, that of this 12-year-old child that some – sometimes his own parents – use for criminal purposes: if we foresee an irrefutable presumption of irresponsibility before the age of 13, that child will still be followed. There is no criminality on the one hand and, on the other hand, nothing, absolute vacuum! You yourself, Minister, have stressed the importance of the educational process, and this applies all the more to a child manipulated by his or her parents or others. So your example is not very convincing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u294	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u295	Disadvantaged, for the reasons just explained.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u296	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u297	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u298	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u299	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I am worried about the turn of the debate: it is, you say, the child embezzled by a gang – or by anyone else who knows it with impunity – who should be punished, not the one who manipulated it... It's still crazy as a reason, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u300	But no, that's not what was said, let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u301	It's even very funny!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u302	Cartoon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u303	If one considers that a minor does not have all the elements to understand the real, especially if he is under the age of 13 – what you do with a presumption of non-discernment – then one must draw all the consequences. In other words, education and civil society must take precedence over law enforcement, thus over criminal law enforcement. Far from us, moreover, the idea of saying that criminality is absolute evil: I have no problem with the principle of punishment. In addition, to deliver the speech that is mine, minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to be a lawyer, a magistrate, a parent or a 65-year-old – I do not know your age, minister, personally I have 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u304	I'm not 65...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u305	He's got a lot less!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u306	[[Smile]] Personally!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u307	No need for all of this, I said: it is enough to have convictions and ideas. Whatever their age, all parliamentarians are legitimate to vote on these matters because of their function. I would like to remind you of this because I see, in the course of the speeches, that there are legitimate trials, which is not acceptable in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u308	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u309	I found it very interesting what Marie-George Buffet said. Criminal law is, of course, the penalty, but at the level of a society, it goes beyond the notion of punishment because it is also what defines prohibitions. And defining the ban for young people is not completely stupid to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u310	Not just for young people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u311	[[Smiles and exclamations]] The definition of the prohibition may be decorated with the penalty, in particular in certain cases. You have also worked, my dear colleague, on the issue of school harassment, and you are well placed to understand that I am in favour of criminalizing these acts... But since I am also for the irrefragability of the presumption before 13 years, I let you imagine the twist that is taking place in my brain, yet already not very balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u312	[[Smile]] Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u313	I knew, Mr. Schellenberger, that you would agree, with your usual assurance. But more seriously, Mrs Buffet, the definition of prohibition in a society seems important to me, because that is what protects it. Presumption, even simple, is already a step forward and should allow a child to say: "What you have done is forbidden by society. » It's not about sending it to Cayenne,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u314	The Devil's Island is over!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u315	Why not for terrorists?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u316	...but to propose to him educational measures that will allow him to evolve and not to start again. The question is therefore just as interesting as it is delicate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u317	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u318	Previously, Mr. Chairman, I want to make a comment on the organization of the discussion. I do not understand that Amendment No 54 by our colleagues LR and Amendment No 6 by Mrs Untermaier, which has nothing to do with each other, have been put together in a joint debate, while Amendment No 153, which has exactly the same purpose as Amendment No 84 by Mrs Buffet, is being discussed separately from him. If they had been debated in a single discussion, the minister would not have had to rise again to say "unfavorable": the discussion could have been common, it would have been preferable for everyone. It is incomprehensible and a little in the image, unfortunately, of the whole of our debates, which interrupt such a day and resume such another. It really doesn't grow our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u319	It's intermittent justice! The debates are really drunk!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u320	My amendment therefore has exactly the same purpose as the previous one. The judge must be able to decide since it is his profession, I hear well; But I recall that he is not the only one in this case: we must also listen to psychiatrists, psychologists – there are already many – in short, everyone who tells us that before the age of 13, a criminal conviction is useless. They too deserve to be listened to. I was neither a judge nor a lawyer, but in 2009 – I think you were born, Mr Bernalicis – I committed a report on the psychiatric follow-up of minors in the hands of justice, in which I stressed the absence of such follow-up because the 1945 order did not provide for such follow-up. Unfortunately, that is not the case in your text, Mr Minister. You only consider the judge and not the psychiatric aspect – and God knows, however, how important it is. This is not annoyance because, under the age of 13, these are children: I think we all agree on this. The judge will, no matter what, have every opportunity to make an appropriate decision, but it cannot be a criminal sanction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u321	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u322	We have already had this debate in committee, but I will make two points: the judge will not be alone in deciding, contrary to what you say, since he will rely on documents – socio-educational collections or even medical expertise, if necessary – which will enable him to assess the concept of discernment in practice and finely, including after an adversarial debate. He will of course not be the only one to decide.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u323	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u324	Deputy Zumkeller had come forward with the Government's response, and he was right: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u325	That's not acceptable! Why is the minister content with saying "unfavorable" again? Check the way the debates are organised, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u326	Mr Zumkeller, I would like to remind you that the presentation of amendments in a joint debate is determined by the place of the text they are intended to amend and by the fact that they are mutually exclusive – in other words, the adoption of one of the others. If there is a particular problem here, we will be able to talk about it again, but so far I have never seen any aberrations in this legistic engineering, which the service of the sitting is doing very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u327	My amendment has exactly the same purpose as Mrs Buffet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u328	There are fifty shades of amendments on the subject of age: these amendments are sequenced in the appropriate order. So I'll put yours to the vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u329	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u330	Would you like to speak on the amendment? We're not going to tell the envier about the point you've just raised...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u331	No, Mr. Chairman, but if I can't speak, I'll ask for a suspension of the sitting, and I don't think anyone has to win. I just wanted to say that my amendment is exactly the same as Mrs Buffet's No 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u332	I take note of this: we will discuss it again with rested heads.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u333	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendments Nos 239, 23 and 24, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u334	I will indeed defend Amendment No 239 by my colleague Di Filippo and the two of whom I am the author: all three tend to establish criminal responsibility from the age of 16, while keeping the principle of discernment below. It is a question of changing the subject we are discussing. Two topics are of interest to our society, the lowering of the minimum age for voting rights below 18 years and the driving licence from 16 years of age. Therefore, there is no reason to evacuate the issue of criminal liability from the age of 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u335	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 230.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u336	The aim of this withdrawal amendment is to remove the minority excuse in cases where the minor had a leading role in committing an offence or a crime, for example "when he initiated a crime or an offence carried out by one or more adults". This does not mean that he would be judged as an adult – he would still be judged by a juvenile judge, with all the kindness that this implies – but that the penalty would be the same as for an adult. In the specific case I am aiming at, it seems to me that the minority excuse could fall.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u338	That is not the case, for the reasons already set out on your previous amendment, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u339	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 133.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u340	It is intended to clarify the wording of article L. 11-2 of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors, several of which seem clumsy, even unfortunate, and which appears to be incomplete. It evacuates, for example, the notion of punishment – while it is the legitimate counterpart of intentional misconduct – as well as the notion of reparation of damage to society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u341	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u342	The writing of article L. 11-2 is maintained at this stage. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u343	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u344	It's all found in article L. 11-2. With regard to the reference to damage to society, any offence is an injury to society. That is why it is often said that the prosecutor represents society. So your proposal is super-fetish. For the rest, article L. 11-2 states that "decisions taken with respect to minors are directed towards the prevention of recidivism and the protection of the interests of victims". Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u345	I have before me two amendments, Nos 134 and 86, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 134.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u346	Article L. 11-2 states that juvenile justice is in particular done with the objective of protecting the interests of victims, which we propose to delete, not that we intend to set aside this aspect but because it is addressed in other places in the text, and that is very well so. I refer you to the quote I made from the Defender of Rights, which, in the last opinion she gave ten days ago, pointed out that the treatment of minors was increasingly aligned with that of adults. Her remarks relate specifically to article L. 11-2, on which she writes: "While the Defender of Rights welcomes the drafting of the preliminary article which recalls the fundamental principles of juvenile criminal justice, she observes that, in the drafting of article L. 11-2, the educational objective is immediately tempered by those of combating recidivism and protecting the interests of victims. These objectives are legitimate," I also think, "but it is regrettable, again, that the message is ambivalent and does not fully affirm the primacy of the educational objective. » It will not have escaped you that, on this and on many others, I share the opinion of the Defender of Rights. There must be no confusion in this matter, and things must be disjointed. The best interests of the child cannot be tempered by the interests of the victim or by any other consideration. Both should be considered separately and should therefore not be included in the same article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u347	Amendment No 86 by Mrs Marie-George Buffet is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u348	Unfavorable opinion on these two amendments. It is extremely important to include the protection of the interests of victims in this article, which is the subject of educational measures and, in particular, of the reparation module. The minor's awareness of the victim's interest is part of his/her construction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u349	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u350	[[Smile]] It's hard for me to understand you. On the one hand, there are sometimes minor victims; On the other hand, how do you want to explain to a kid the merits of the legal proceedings against him, without making him understand that the facts he committed may have caused damage to the victims? Frankly, sometimes I despair – and unfavorably.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u351	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u352	Since you have praised the nuance so many times, Minister, let me make it clear that we are talking here about protecting the victim's interest and not about the child's interest in understanding the damage that he or she has done to him or her and which justifies reparation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u353	That goes hand in hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u354	These are two different things...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u355	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u356	I agree, of course, that reparation measures are useful for the victim, but above all for the child. It is a postulate, or even a principle to which I am attached. You're talking about minor victims. All right. In this case, however, we are talking about the decisions taken against the minors in question, except in civil matters – where they cannot be formally mentioned – which are excluded from this debate and which is thus seen as poverty, since it is unfortunately confined to criminal matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u357	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u358	It is important to recall that when we talk about the primacy of education and the best interests of the child, it is not exclusive to the protection of the victim's interest, and I do not think that these two concepts should be opposed; I even think they're complementary. On the other hand, in many cases, victims are minors, and it is very important that they are considered and taken into account. One of the advances contained in this draft code is that the victim has a real place in a judicial procedure that, for many, is often a journey of the combatant. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Much progress has been made in this direction in recent years, and it is important that this code confirms that educational measures and the protection of victims work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u359	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 299.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u360	You have mentioned – and it is to your honour, Mr. Keeper of the Seals – the situation of these children who are sometimes only 12 years old but who explain to the judge to whom they are presented that they completely ignore his opinion since they risk nothing. That is why we believe it is absolutely necessary that, in addition to deterrence, protection of the interests of victims and rehabilitation of minors, the article explicitly states that measures taken against minors are also intended to punish them. In line with your own comments, we therefore propose to add punishment as one of the objectives of criminal decisions taken against minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u361	It already exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u362	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u363	What you're proposing is redundant. Decisions may concern educational measures, but also, of course, penalties. It is not useful to clarify this. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u364	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u365	It is obviously redundant: what is a criminal decision that would not be a sanction? By definition, a criminal decision is a sanction. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u366	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u367	The word "penalty" appears thirty-eight times in this draft Code, and it cannot be ignored that sanctions are provided for. The children's judge has a toolbox, which includes civil or criminal tools, i.e. educational measures and real sentences, a distinction and gradation being established by the code. However, all decisions of the judge, including sanctions, must be taken in the idea that education takes precedence over repression. That is why I do not understand that article L. 11-2 mentions the interests of the victims, who do not always converge with the interests of the minor. I am not opposed to defending the interests of the victims, of course, I suggest that you simply deal with it separately. Victims are also taken into account in other articles, particularly as regards their ability to act, at particular stages of the proceedings. But if you want to, you just have to make a code dedicated to the care of the victims!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u368	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 110 and 301. I call Mr Schellenberger to support Amendment No. 110.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u369	Article L. 11-3 of the future Juvenile Criminal Justice Code provides that a minor convicted of a criminal offence may be subject to educational measures and, subject to the double cumulative condition of circumstances and personality that would require it, to be punished. This cumulative double condition will greatly reduce the possibilities of the judge. Educational measures must of course be a priority, but if circumstances so require, why add the condition of personality, and vice versa? We believe that there is a need to leave more freedom of assessment to the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u370	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 301.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u371	Since the rapporteur and the keeper of the seals are so attached to redacting the text of the superfetative elements, it seems to me that the terms "if circumstances and their personality so require" are, in this case, totally superfetative, since in any judicial decision taken against any person, these two elements are taken into account. I therefore propose the deletion of these words.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u372	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u373	We have a real fundamental disagreement, Mr Schellenberger. Mr Ciotti's amendment, which you have defended, wants the repression to take precedence over education. This is contrary to the primacy of education over repression reaffirmed in the preliminary article. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u374	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u375	You are wrong to consider that there is redundancy in this article. In its decision of 29 August 2002, the Constitutional Council, and that is not nothing, established as a fundamental principle, recognized by the laws of the Republic, "the need to seek the educational and moral rehabilitation of child offenders through measures appropriate to their age and personality".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u376	So what? Is that in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u377	If it's not a reference for you, it's no big deal; For the Government, the Constitutional Council is a reference.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u378	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u379	The criminal law must be clear and precise, especially when dealing with minors. When we come to repeat words several times in contradictory contexts, which complicate their understanding, we make a chatty law. If the previous articles already say things clearly, there is no need to repeat them in a less clear way. I do not agree with your interpretation of Mr Ciotti's amendment, and there are no restrictions on the measures the judge may take against a juvenile offender.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u380	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u381	I am in favour of including in this code all aspects of its operation, in order to avoid references to the Code of Criminal Procedure, even if it is redundant and if the procedures are identical: this will allow for an overall apprehension of the mechanisms specific to juvenile justice. This must be written black and white, even if it already appears in the basic law of the Republic. This will allow the reader of the code, who does not have all the constitutional decisions in mind, to be able to easily implement and implement it. That being said, and it rips off my mouth to say it, but you are right to Marine Le Pen, minister, because this is the judge's job, and you could have added this sentence to all the sauces: "Trust the judges! » That is why I proposed to make it clear that there was a primacy of educational measures over repressive measures, rather than that reference to circumstances. As drafted, the drafting of the article does not establish any gradation, and if, in fact, this gradation exists, it is due to the jurisprudence, and in particular to that of the Constitutional Council; But this has never been clearly stated in the law. I regret that you did not accept this proposal, because you would not be in the trouble you are currently in.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u382	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u383	I consider the argument of the keeper of seals totally inoperative because, by definition, the constitutional principle prevails over the law. There is therefore no point in re-enacting this principle in the law, especially since, while no one is supposed to ignore the law, no one is supposed to ignore the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u384	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendments Nos 123, 124 and 125, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u385	Amendment No 123 seeks to clarify that the seriousness of the offence is taken into account, so that the sentence imposed is fair. Indeed, the only terms of "circumstances" and "personality" of the minor are not sufficient. Amendment No 124 is a little different. We have recalled that no sentence may be imposed on a minor under 13 years of age. While the duty of the legislator is to ensure that delinquent or criminal children can have a future and are obviously rehabilitated, it is also to provide for mechanisms to protect the society from dangerous persons, including when it comes to children, even very young children. The purpose of Amendment No 125 is to revert to the principle of exclusion of any penalty for minors under the age of 13, in the case of the commission of a crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u386	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u387	Amendment No 123 seeks to clarify Article L. 11-3 of the new Code by inserting the words "the seriousness of the infringement". This addition would be overabundant, as the article refers to "circumstances." As the seriousness of the infringement is one of the circumstances that could lead to a penalty, the amendment is, in my view, satisfactory. I therefore ask you to withdraw it, otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable. I am very opposed to Amendment No 124: no penalty should be imposed on a minor under the age of 13. You recalled that an answer was given to the offences, in the form of an educational measure. We don't leave any offences unanswered. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 125, we have already answered in a lengthy debate whether it is possible to consider the minor to be discerning. The opinion is therefore also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u388	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u389	The first of these three amendments is bold. The seriousness of the offence is, of course, one of the elements taken into account in sentencing, since justice existed. I hear a "Ah! » which may be circumspect; But for a crime or a low-intensity crime committed by a child, the penalty is obviously not the same as for a serious offence. There is a gradation of sentences related to the seriousness of the facts, which is one of the first elements taken into account. Age, personality and recidivism are also at stake. Everyone knows that, and I am against Amendment No 123, which I think is a little out of the ground. As for the following amendments, we shall repeat: the impossibility of imposing a sentence on a minor under the age of 13 must remain an absolute principle, in accordance with the constitutional principle of mitigating the criminal responsibility of minors on the basis of age, the provisions of the 1945 Ordinance referred to here, the impossibility of placing a minor under the age of 13 in pre-trial detention and the presumption of non-discretion of young children established by the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code. A minor under the age of 13 may, if found guilty and discerning, be sentenced to an educational measure, which is a punishment. Things are clear! I am therefore against these amendments. Mr Bernalicis, if you have identified thirty-nine occurrences of the word "penalty" in the text, know that you have counted one too many.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u390	I said thirty-eight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u391	... and, above all, that the word "educational" or "educational" appears between one hundred and sixty-six and one hundred and sixty-eight times.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u392	I was gonna say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u393	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] If we base ourselves, as you do, on a quantitative criterion, it is concluded that priority is education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u394	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u395	I ask myself only the question of the proportionality of the answer to the act committed. I want minors who commit crimes to be rare, but that happens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u396	This can happen, yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u397	Let's imagine – we've been in the imagination for a while now: you rely on cases, it's up to me to call one – a child under the age of 13 who would have committed a crime, let's say a murder – that can happen. Will there be a proportionality between the act committed and the educational measure? That's my question! In order for the child – everyone will agree that a minor under the age of 13 is a child – to become aware of his or her act, should it not be a little more than an educational measure?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u398	What do you need, Mrs. Ménard? Prison?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u399	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u400	You forgot me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u401	You will have the floor again, I apologize if I have forgotten you. Don't worry, I'm sure we'll hear you again. I have before me two amendments, Nos 137 and 315, which may be submitted to a joint debate. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 137.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u402	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Mr President, you do not grant me any privileges, you do not give me any flowers by giving me the floor: you simply apply our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u403	Not quite, Mr. Bernalicis...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u404	[[Same movements]] Why do you say, "I'm sure we'll hear you again"? Let's not take this path while everything is going well so far!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u405	Go ahead, Mr. Bernalicis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u406	I have the rules next to me, he's ready, but I haven't used it yet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u407	We are listening to you, Mr Bernalicis, if you want to defend the amendment to which Mrs Obono is the first signatory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u408	We propose to prohibit the sentencing of minors under 15 years of age and not more than 13 years of age as at present. The principle of gradation, which is used by the keeper of seals without inserting it in his code, is essential. In the criminal field, there are three floors for minors: educational measures, educational sanctions and penalties. The more the minor advances in age, the more the justice can use repressive tools, since the age is a priori accompanied – I say "a priori" by a greater maturity: not a complete maturity, but a higher maturity. It is possible to retain the concept of discernment, provided that it is favourable to the child who is accused of acts. Mr Minister, I spoke about sanctions, not to say that they were not, not enough or too many, but to point out that they existed, whereas Mrs Le Pen had stated, in the general debate, that there were none, which is not true, since the word appears thirty-eight times – I had already said thirty-eight, but it is not serious. As for education, you need to add the "educational" and "educational" occurrences to get the right total, which is a little higher than the one you indicated. But that's not the problem. The text recognizes the primacy of education,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u409	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u410	...but the exceptions too. And I am here to pursue exceptions in the name of respect for the great principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u411	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 315.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u412	It goes in the same direction as the previous one, but it replaces the age of 13 with the age of 14, in order to bring us in line with international standards, which recommend, beyond the debate we have just had, that we take into account emotional, mental and intellectual maturity in determining the threshold of criminal responsibility. It should not be too low to ensure that the child can bear the moral and psychological consequences of this criminal responsibility. This is at the heart of the debate that we have had for an hour. We propose to increase the age below which it is impossible to impose a sentence of 13 to 14 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u413	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u414	Unfavorable opinion on these two amendments. We have already discussed this issue. Mrs Cariou, a minor can be sentenced if he or she is at least 13 years old: the whole of the code rightly retains this 13-year-old reference, which is consistent with the new definition of the age of criminal responsibility, which we adopted earlier. Article L. 11-3 provides that penalties may be imposed on a minor who is at least 13 years of age, but only "if the circumstances and personality of the minor so require". For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u415	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u416	We have already explained ourselves along, wide, across and squared on this issue. I am against these amendments. Mr President, I am asking for a ten-minute suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u417	We shall conclude the discussion of these two amendments before suspending the sitting. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u418	We support an irrefutable presumption for minors under 14 years of age; for those between the ages of 14 and 15, only educational measures must be taken; For minors over 15 years of age, penalties may be imposed. A scale of 14, 16 and 18 years could perhaps be used for the three graduation thresholds. This hierarchy, which is more coherent, would also be closer to that of our European neighbours, who favour education more than we do over repression and the best interests of the child. We will insist on this determining point as many times as it is necessary, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u419	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u420	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Otherwise, each would set out its point of view once; Then we'd look good-bye and you'd go back with your text. This is the temptation, I know it well: we are here in a recording chamber, and many people think, as I often say, that the debate in the National Assembly is a temporary pain in the ass: we have to do well, but if we could do without it, it would be better.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u421	It's a mirror effect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u422	It's not because you think that everyone thinks that! Stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u423	I totally reject this view, because we live in a rule of law and a democracy thanks to Parliament. So, let's respect him! Let us also respect the fact that Parliament, made up of the National Assembly and the Senate, is the place where we speak. This civilized way of drawing up disagreements and debating avoids coming to hands. I'm so we can talk as much as we can. This is a good thing, and sessions on this text are scheduled until next week, so that we can examine in depth all the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u424	You have to be interesting when you talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u425	Let us be calm, develop our arguments along, wide and across, and study every case: everyone will grow up.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u426	Instead of doing moral lessons, we should talk about the background!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u427	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u428	You cannot be content with the answers you give, minister. We may have already discussed this subject, but the debate will continue, because it concerns sensitive issues. Respect the Members who table amendments and want to discuss with you the substance of the amendments and do not just say that you have already given your opinion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u429	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u430	This is not a parliamentary debate. There are rejection amendments, cropping amendments and others that aim to refine the text, so each one has its own usefulness. Otherwise, we stop the discussion and adopt the articles as they are. Minister, we are going to discuss juvenile criminal justice again, because this is a very sensitive subject. Let us talk quietly, without sweeping the proposals contained in the amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u431	Could we work on the bottom?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u432	If you want to work on the substance, speak up rather than vocify in this way!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u433	Mr. Bernalicis, please. Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u434	I associate myself with the remarks of my colleagues Ugo Bernalicis and Émilie Cariou.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u435	Is this a point of order?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u436	The committee, composed of the parliamentarians who are members of the committee, examined the text. Then there's the public session. It should be noted that the committee did not sit very long in view of the number of amendments tabled. The time for discussion of the amendments is quite normal, minister, and even very brief for such an important subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u437	It's not a normal time, I'm telling you, it's always the same questions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u438	No, actually. First of all, you do not answer the same Members. I do not consult before the sitting with the Member opposite to see if he is going to table the same amendment as I am. I'm doing my work as a member of Parliament with my group. On this delicate subject, you choose not to answer. I understand the colleagues who regret that we do not discuss the substance, but that they take the floor and we will debate on the microphone, unless they prefer to speak with each other to note our statements as jurors. Everyone does as he pleases, but I don't like small out-of-micro interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u439	I agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u440	As for the answers which merely accuse us of asking the same questions, they reflect a problem with the parliamentary debate, which is worrying.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u441	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u442	I find Mrs Cariou's speech quite unpleasant. Mrs Cariou, I have risen and I think I have answered the substance of the debate on age – 13 or 14 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u443	We were talking about the minister's response!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u444	The rapporteur is of good quality!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u445	So you could have considered that the trial you're taking on the lack of a response was no longer appropriate. If you had been present at the beginning of the debate, you would have noticed that this subject has already been mentioned 15 times. I took the trouble of getting up to answer you, because I know you weren't there before, in order to give you a detailed answer on the merits. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Don't blame me for not doing it! I find this behavior quite special.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u446	This is the functioning of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u447	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u448	I have an infinite respect for Parliament, and I think I demonstrate it every day. I carry out consultations and consultations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u449	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u450	...I go to the Chamber and to committee, whenever necessary; My door is open; I sometimes go back to amendments that I had envisaged; I take into consideration what I am told, wherever it comes from. Besides that you are not the arbiter of elegance, if you ask me thirty times the same question, you will have thirty times the same answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u451	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u452	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u453	It has already been discussed at length in the Committee on Laws, and I have read the report. Nevertheless, we had considered informing the juvenile judge and the specialized prosecutor of the decisions of the police court concerning minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u454	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u455	The debate has indeed already taken place in committee, but I will answer the question concerning the police court. The violations of the first four classes do not really fall under the jurisdiction of the children's judge, who must instead intervene in more technical cases. It is better to keep the current procedure. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u456	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u457	Indeed, we have already mentioned this point in committee, but I am replying because I do not want to upset anyone. I had already had the honour of telling you that the police court is competent to try minor violations, while the children's judge examines fifth-class violations only. The procedure before the police court is appropriate and protective for the minor: it provides for the compulsory assistance of a lawyer, the presence of legal representatives, limited publicity and the possibility of appealing to the Special Chamber for Minors of the Court of Appeal. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u458	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u459	To avoid repeating the exchange that we had in committee, I had taken care to restrict my question. The word "continuity" is fashionable – for example, a security continuum. I believe that a continuity can be established between the first four classes, which are not anodized, and the continuation of the events on the child's unique personality record. It would be a matter of transmitting the decision of the police court to the juvenile judge, who together with the educators is a unique personality file – but perhaps it is a matter of regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u460	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u461	Many amendments concern the police court, as it is mentioned throughout the text. Unfortunately, as we have told you in committee, Minister, an amendment will not be enough to reform its role, since it would have to be one every time it is mentioned. In this area, I want to put arguments on the table. I share with many legal professionals the view that the educational virtue of a fine is almost null. The same is not true of the prospect of being received by a judge, including for a contravention. You said earlier that a justice response was necessary and that the kid had to be taken care of. The magistrate may issue an educational measure instead of a contravention. In our mind, these measures must be age-dependent, which is why we have also tabled many amendments on this subject. This approach would allow us to look at the overall course of the child in order to know why he or she committed the offence. Could it not be possible to envisage measures of educational assistance in connection with the family, in order to involve it? I repeat: the children's judge takes a global view and not only considers the facts – fortunately, by the way! It digs, takes the environment into account, seeks to change the situation. It is therefore essential that any offence, as soon as the first class offence is committed, falls within the jurisdiction of the juvenile judge. In addition, a fine raises the problem of who will pay it, since the child does not necessarily have money. Making parents pay for it raises other difficulties. It is much more interesting to put the case in the hands of the judge, both for the child and for the principles that are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u462	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 43, 347 and 400. Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u463	The specialisation of courts is one of the guiding principles of juvenile criminal law. In view of the important powers conferred on the judges of freedoms and detention, this amendment aims to specialise one of them in cases involving minors wherever possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u464	Mrs Naïma Moutchou, in support of Amendment No 347.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u465	Adopting the proposal set out in these identical amendments would be a good step forward for the functioning of juvenile criminal justice. Placing someone in pre-trial detention, i.e. depriving them of their liberty, is a serious decision, especially when it concerns minors. However, the number of minors in pre-trial detention had exploded in recent years. In order to make justice more effective, in the best interests of the child, we propose that minors be placed under the jurisdiction of a judge of liberty and specialized detention. He will intervene for detentions handed down prior to the conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u466	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 400.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u467	Mrs Buffet had tabled this amendment in committee and it had been rejected, because we had not yet taken into account all the questions posed by the impartiality of the juvenile judge with regard to pre-trial detention. As the text evolves in the direction of specialisation of the judge of freedoms and detention, I have tabled this identical amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u468	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u469	My opinion on this issue has changed a lot. I recall, for example, referring to the possibility for the Correctional Court to decide on detention when the case was referred to the defence, or because the case was not in a position to be tried. Nothing then precludes the court from deciding on the merits at a later stage. However, I am sensitive to your arguments. As the Government's position had evolved, its opinion would be in favour of those identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u470	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u471	The Socialist and Related Group will obviously support these amendments. However, I would like to ask a question, which I hope has nothing impertinent: in practice, there is a shortage of JLDs in the territories. How will it be possible to specialise some of them? I do not want to provoke controversy, but to know whether, in the context of the quotas you have envisaged, you intend to increase the number of quotas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u472	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u473	[[Smile]] I note that you are asking this question after I have given a favourable opinion on these identical amendments. If you had asked me before, my answer would have been the same: our services have obviously been warned of this problem. In addition, the heads of jurisdiction will provide authorizations, and specific training will be provided. I hope I have answered your legitimate question in a satisfactory way – I see some haggling heads that reassure me on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u474	We can therefore safely proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u475	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3 and 103. Amendment No 3 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended. Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u476	It goes in the same direction as those just adopted, since it concerns the training of magistrates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u477	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u478	We have already had this debate in the Law Committee; As Mrs Cariou does not sit there, I will nevertheless reply to her. Judges receive seven months of initial training in this field; twenty-one hours concern educational assistance, and twenty-four hours concern the criminal role of the juvenile judge. During their internship year, students must spend five weeks in a juvenile court and one week in immersion in a juvenile court. A magistrate who wishes to become a juvenile judge is trained for one month, consisting of two weeks of theoretical contributions and two weeks of internship. These identical amendments are satisfied, so I will ask for their withdrawal; Failing this, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u479	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u480	Same opinion. Training is, of course, already planned. The amendments are satisfactory, as the rapporteur has just explained.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u481	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u482	They are, of course, satisfied at the moment, but the amendments are intended to include the requirement for training in the law. The National School of Judicial Affairs program can change, such as regulations. Our proposal seeks to clarify that specialization is necessary and requires initial and continuing training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u483	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u484	I am surprised by the rapporteur's answer. In his information report with Ms. Untermaier, he regretted that the training provided was insufficient, particularly for prosecutors. He argues that it needs to be strengthened, especially in small courts, where permanent prosecutors are, by way of exception, required to take the place of prosecutors specializing in juvenile justice. I therefore support the inclusion in the law of training, in order to guarantee to the minor that the magistrate whom he has in front of him has all the necessary elements, in particular a good knowledge of the code under correction, in order to apply the principles which we define here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u485	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 139.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u486	I am sure that it will give rise to a favourable opinion, since it also aims at the specialization of magistrates, by deleting the words "the Attorney General or" in article L. 12-2 of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors. It is a matter of unburdening the Attorney General to focus on other, equally essential, missions. The specialization of these actors is better suited to juvenile justice. It is preferable that only a judge of the Public Prosecutor's Office specifically responsible for juvenile cases should perform the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office in cases concerning them. In fact, this is often the case in the courts, where a substitute is usually assigned to cases involving minors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u487	[[Smile]] We'll see if your certainty is justified. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u488	Unfortunately not, Mr. President. In my view, the Attorney General should be given the opportunity to intervene when circumstances so require. But in the vast majority of cases, it is true, it is many specialized magistrates who will carry out the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u489	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u490	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u491	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u492	I found the passage of Mr Terlier's and Mrs Untermaier's information report which I referred to: "There is also a specific prosecutor's office responsible for juvenile criminal justice matters; 54.8% of prosecutionable cases involving minors result in an alternative procedure to prosecution decided by the prosecutor. We note that this one occupies a special place! "The specialisation of the juvenile prosecutor's office therefore appears to be well justified and raises the question of the initial and continuing training of the magistrates in the juvenile prosecutor's office. If children's judges receive specific training, this is not the case for the judges in charge of these matters in the public prosecutor's offices. During the mission's hearing, Ms. Anaïs Vrain, National Secretary of the Judicature Union, regretted that there was no mandatory training for the juvenile prosecutor's office, the latter being often responsible for these matters. Freedom and detention judges and investigating judges who are required to deal with cases involving minors should also be given specific training. » [[The rapporteur smiles]] And the report to formulate this proposal: "Increase the specific training of juvenile prosecutors and consider specialisation of these judges on the model of children's judges". I'm just reading your report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u493	Identical Amendments Nos 19 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier and 104 by Mrs Émilie Cariou are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u494	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u495	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u496	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u497	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u498	I would like to hear from the rapporteur, if possible, about the fate of his own proposals. We have wondered, because it is on their basis that we have tabled similar amendments – ours are not placed in the same place of the text, for various and varied reasons... You tell us, Mr rapporteur, that initial training is sufficient...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u499	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u500	... but you said the opposite in this report, and you asked for specialization. I don't understand: what should be done? Unless you no longer agree with the content of your own report?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u501	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u502	Mr Bernalicis, sometimes, after hearings, proposals are made which are thought to be relevant because they appear to be justified at the time; later, other elements, other information change the state of our knowledge. It's not impossible to change your mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u503	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 141.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u504	The purpose of this amendment is to delete the reference to "participating in the choice of counsel". This formulation seems vague; We don't know the true meaning and scope. To write that the minor "makes the choice of his lawyer" would be clearer – and in no way prevents the minor from soliciting a third person, such as his legal representative, to assist him in this choice if he considers it necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u505	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u506	Assistance by a lawyer is compulsory: if the minor does not make the choice, he will in any case be assisted. Moreover, it is not always in a position to make this choice. Let us keep its flexibility in the text. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u507	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u508	What the rapporteur has just said seems to me to be the very logic. The Government therefore expressed an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u509	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u510	The text guarantees the presence of the lawyer at all stages of the proceedings. The minor "participates" in the choice of his or her lawyer; It is a choice which cannot be entrusted to the minor alone, because it also depends on his degree of maturity. One example: police officers told me that, during police custody, a minor had asked to be assisted by Jacques Vergès, because he had seen him on television. Of course, that was not possible, and a lawyer had to be appointed. What is important is that the minor is systematically involved in decisions affecting him or her, including the choice of his or her lawyer, and that the lawyer is always present. He may be appointed by the legal representatives or by the batonier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u511	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u512	You misunderstood me, I believe, rapporteur: I did not question the participation of the lawyer. "Making a choice" seems clearer to me than "participating in the choice". Madame Louis, this minor wanted to be defended by Mr.Vergès: was he asked the question? Maybe he would have agreed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u513	It would have been a bit difficult: he had died!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u514	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 140, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u515	The same lawyer should follow the different procedures. I heard what I was told in committee, and I discussed it again with lawyers defending minors. They tell me that it is not so easy to attach the files and that the text should go further, allowing the disclosure of the exhibits of the various files, so that the lawyer has a global vision. It is easier for everyone that the minor has only one lawyer for all proceedings that concern him, both in civil and criminal matters. Let us imagine a minor who would have a civil lawyer and two others in criminal proceedings, while the magistrate has a general apprehension since he has all the elements at his disposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u516	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u517	We had this debate in committee: your amendment is satisfied, since Article L. 12-4 of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors provides that "to the extent possible, the minor shall be assisted by the same lawyer at each stage of the proceedings". Since civil justice is not excluded, this possibility concerns both civil and criminal law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u518	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u519	Sometimes I get tired, Mr. Bernalicis...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u520	I know, I know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u521	Once again, you have come back to the question of the term "minor", "child", "adolescent". You have to believe that, if you haven't said 30 times one thing, you haven't said it at all... But let's move on. The choice of counsel for educational assistance is not included in a text on juvenile criminal justice. We can't always confuse everything! I certainly wouldn't dare say you're in bad faith, but still! Nothing prevents the minor from choosing the same lawyer in two separate proceedings. I am against this amendment, which confuses everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u522	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u523	We don't confuse everything; On the other hand, the rapporteur tells me that the amendment is satisfied, that it will be the same lawyer for civil and criminal matters; and the minister tells us that it has nothing to do with... For us, it would be good if there was continuity, and that goes better by saying it! We have not proposed the deletion of the expression "as far as possible": we know well how this is happening in the real world. Of course it is "as far as possible", not something imperative. But the current writing does not teach us much. When we codify, we try to write elements that we will hang on to – especially in criminal matters. With respect to the terms "child" and "adolescent", note, minister, that we have removed this second word. We've reworked all our amendments, it's a little bit of work anyway... just notice it. But I say it again so that you have it in mind: indeed, out of consistency, whenever the word "minor" appears, we will propose to write "child". And we could have made two amendments, if we really wanted to bother you... We're nice, because we put everything in the same one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u524	We only lend to the rich, what do you want!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u525	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u526	Article L. 12-4 recognizes the lawyer as a specialized actor, and lays down the principle of maintaining the same defender at each stage of the proceedings. We propose to go further by providing that "as far as possible and without prejudice to his or her free choice, the minor shall be assisted by the same lawyer if other proceedings take place at a later stage". Indeed, continuity is important not only for the same case, but also for understanding a minor's path when he or she is involved in different cases. In addition to its traditional role of defence, a minor's lawyer must take into account the child's fragility and adapt his/her practice accordingly. His relationship with his young client is therefore fundamental. That is why we believe that the continuity of the follow-up of the young offender by the same lawyer in the various cases that concern him would allow the defender to better understand him and to better understand his particularities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u527	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u528	The amendment is satisfied. The passage to the plural "procedures" seems to me to have no effect. Once there is a procedure, the lawyer will have to be the same. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u529	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u530	The amendment is satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u531	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u532	We are obviously all attached to these words: "as far as possible", and to respect for the lawyer's free choice, ideally the same throughout the proceedings. In practice, that is what happens: when a lawyer is appointed to defend a minor, he is appointed for all other cases. In judicial life, of course, one lawyer leaves a bar for another; This leads to a change of lawyer... Let's trust the practitioners, the courts, so that everything happens as best we can. But in the text, the principle of assistance by a lawyer and the principle that the lawyer normally remains the same are enshrined in the text. That seems a good thing to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u533	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u534	I proposed earlier to include the principle of the same lawyer for civil and criminal matters; I was told it wasn't the same thing. Here, the amendment proposes to put an end to "procedure" in the plural. It is not a legal subtlety: there are different stages in the same procedure – including the guilty hearing, and then the sentencing hearing – and what Article L. 12-4 provides for, it is the same lawyer throughout the same procedure. But ideally, in the famous "as far as possible" – we do not ask for the moon! – the lawyer should also be the same for all proceedings. You do not want to, you tell us that our amendments are satisfied: but if that is the case, then this article, as drafted, is of no use.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u535	We want to improve readability!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u536	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 150.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u537	It is intended to exclude, in all cases, without exception, the use of video conferencing in court proceedings concerning a child. I have already reiterated my opposition to its use in proceedings concerning a major person and I reiterate it, even more strongly, in the case of a minor. In this regard, I will take up the words that Mr. Custody of Seals delivered yesterday when the bill on the European Public Prosecutor's Office and on specialised criminal justice was discussed, when our colleagues on the right proposed an extension of the use of video conferencing. He indicated that it was appropriate to have the person in charge in front of him to see whether he was sweating, observing his hands or the position of his feet, how he behaved, in short, who he was, in order to better identify and consider him. For my part, I believe deeply in all this. I also believe that video conferencing has virtues. I practice it very often. However, in judicial matters, it is not appropriate for hearings or judgements. Of course, I have never been auditioned in such a framework and I touch wood...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u538	It won't be long!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u539	I don't know if it'll be long. I don't hope so! But, in any event, I believe that national representation would honour itself in sanctifying the prohibition of the use of video conferencing at least in court proceedings involving a child.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u540	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u541	We had this debate in committee and we assured you of your concern. We do not want video conferencing to be used wrongly and through. We had also voted for an amendment to exclude his appeal in the context of an extension of pre-trial detention. At this stage, the use of video conferencing in proceedings involving a minor is permitted only for an extension of police custody. And I think it would be useful if we could make use of it in this very specific case. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u542	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u543	The rapporteur has just answered you very precisely. In committee, we have referred to the assumptions in which this use is in fact entirely in favour of minors, as in the case of removal of the prosecutor to decide on the very particular case of the extension of police custody. I would also point out that the use of video conferencing is impossible in the rest of the procedure. So you don't have to be afraid of everything and fantasize about everything. I refer you to the provisions of article 706-71 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I repeat, video conferencing can be useful and often appears to be in favour of minors, especially in cases of removal from the prosecutor. It is therefore not necessary to tell us once again that, in the case of minors, justice must be done in the presence of the person in question. [[Mr. Remy Rebeyrotte smiles]] On the other hand, I note with great interest, and I am very flattered by that, that you have perfectly retained the words I spoke yesterday and that you made yours. Things are progressing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u544	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u545	Maybe I'm the one who listens to you with the most attention, minister! I never said that I disagreed completely, completely and permanently with you. On the contrary. I was even more in agreement with the speech you gave that you took up your duties at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u546	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u547	I hope that we will have the reform of the Prosecutor's Office as you wish. Of course, you have given only the outline and I expect the details of it, but my a priori is rather positive. So it's not a question of progress: my first impressions were already good and so much the better! As far as video conferencing is concerned, it seems to me that if the magistrate is unable to perform an act, freedom must be the norm and coercion the exception. Things work this way in many situations. I therefore believe that, if it is impossible to send a magistrate to decide on the extension of a child's custody, the norm must become freedom again and that it is preferable to the use of video conferencing – to which I am completely opposed in judicial matters. On the other hand, although it is true that we are not very numerous at this moment in the House – I do not blame anyone – all the Members present are not members of the Committee on Laws and therefore not necessarily attended the exchange of arguments that we have had. It is therefore possible that I convince some colleagues in the majority by my remarks, in the same way that I was able to be penetrated by those of the keeper of seals and make them mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u548	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to support Amendment No. 155.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u549	Article L. 13-2 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code, in its wording resulting from the Order of 11 September 2019, provides: "Unless otherwise provided in this Code, the competent court, the procedure applicable and the measures and penalties incurred shall be determined according to the age of the minor at the date of the act". The purpose of this amendment is to delete the words: "Unless otherwise provided in this Code", as there must be no exceptions to this provision. One cannot set a principle by constantly derogating from it. Indeed, it is always possible to mention good reasons. With regard to video conferencing, for example, someone said that it was useful when the prosecutor was two hours away from the person in question. I don't know where this idea comes from and I hope some French people don't live two hours away from a court! One could also mention covid -19 as an exception. You don't have to! When principles are laid down, such as the primacy of education over repression, the specialisation of judges, or the mitigating excuse of a minority, they should be followed to the end and declined. Otherwise, asserting in the preliminary title of the "general principles of juvenile criminal justice" is simply a matter of pleasure if these principles are then reduced to a cosmetic dimension. Moreover, it is this article that allows exceptions: otherwise, they would be impossible. The human rights defender stated that while the principles in the preliminary title were very positive, the text then only made exceptions. That is regrettable, because an exception still does not end up being used. As the Minister pointed out earlier, pre-trial detention, for example, which was to be used on an exceptional basis, has become one of the largest providers of persons in prisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u550	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u551	Article L. 13-2 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code states, Mr. Bernalicis, that "the measures and penalties incurred shall be determined according to the age of the minor at the date of the act". But it is true that certain exceptions should be made. In this case, there are only three of them. First, article L. 513-3 of the same Code provides for the possibility for the accused person, who is a minor at the time of the events and has become a major, to request a public hearing. The second derogation, contained in article L. 122-1, permits the pronouncement of hours of work of general interest against a minor aged between 16 and 18 years who was between 13 and 16 years of age at the time of the act. Finally, article L. 121-7 allows for the exception of age-related sentencing rules. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u552	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u553	I have nothing else to add. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u554	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u555	Let us recall this again at this stage of the debate, because it seems important to me: too rigid application of certain principles does not seem desirable. We are, of course, very committed to taking into account the age of the person at the time of the charges against him, but the exceptions to this principle are very limited. In addition, work of general interest is an interesting and appropriate sanction for some minors: removing this exception would deprive them of it. Moreover, and this is not a conviction but a reflection, the extension of the statute of limitations for certain offences and crimes will potentially lead the Children's Court to try persons who may be over 40 or 50 years of age and for whom the removal of the minority apology could be justified. In any event, if the principle is indispensable, it is always necessary to add exceptions to it so as to adapt to criminal practice, a matter which I do not think should be rigid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u556	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u557	The three exceptions listed by the rapporteur are not valid, the third being my greatest disapproval as it is to rule out the excuse of minority mitigation. We are well aware that where exceptions exist, they are invoked. And I don't understand that you don't see any problem in setting a principle while at the same time derogating from it. This text could have been an opportunity to reaffirm principles rather than to include exceptions that were already contained in the 1945 Order. In this case, we're not making any progress! The situation is the same with regard to the caesure of the trial, which you establish while providing for the possibility of contenting yourself with a single hearing. It will appear to the magistrate as a means of moving quickly in the management of the flow of cases instead of taking the time necessary to establish the sentence – and again, it is a three-month break between the sentence and the sentence, with the possibility of prolonging it once. Also, I don't want any exceptions! I hope that the principles will be embodied in the entire code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u558	I have before me three amendments, Nos 75, 161 and 142, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 75 and 161 are identical. Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 75.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u559	It is intended to impose a fine of EUR 15000 on the disclosure of the identity or image of a child who is accused or convicted in criminal proceedings. The aim here is to respect the founding principles of child justice, by considering the young offender as a person at once in danger and becoming one of them. Our intention is therefore to reaffirm the protectionist model of child delinquents by applying the principle of child protection at the time of the act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u560	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 161.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u561	The group La France insoumise also proposes to remind in the Code of the criminal justice of minors that the disclosure of the identity or image of the child is punishable by law. We have been told in committee that this provision is already included in the Penal Code. I will therefore give you back our view of what a complete code should be, which is sufficient for itself: references to other codes should be avoided as far as possible in a code, specifying all the relevant provisions. The principle is the same when we ask to include the possibility for a minor to choose his/her lawyer and, to the extent possible, to represent him/her in the various procedures that may affect him/her. It seems to me that the Penal Code already provides for such a provision, but, for the sake of intelligibility, it seems consistent to us to include it in the Code of Juvenile Criminal Justice. A code is a daily tool for many practitioners and future practitioners and must also be accessible to French people who want to understand its content. Finally, I would point out that this amendment is also intended to replace the word "minor" with the word "child".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u562	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u563	This amendment is important to me because it aims to ensure that the principle of the prohibition of disclosure of the secrecy of the investigation does not remain a dead letter: this offence must be accompanied by a sanction in order to ensure its effectiveness. Some media outlets are the experts in the disclosure of the secrecy of the investigation: this should really be stopped. In my view, this is done through appropriate sanctions. You know better than I do, the disclosure of such information can have very serious consequences. This issue also relates to the proper administration of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u564	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u565	He's unfavorable. Article L. 13-3 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code states that "under no circumstances may the identity or image of a minor involved in criminal proceedings be made public, directly or indirectly". As a result of this article, you wish to add the provisions on the applicable sanctions, which I do not think is relevant, because there are in fact several provisions, depending on the seriousness of the disclosure. Article L. 513-4 of the same Code provides for a fine of 15000 euros for the publication of the record of proceedings, any text or illustration concerning the identity and personality of juvenile offenders. Article L. 413-14 provides for a penalty of one year's imprisonment and a fine of 15,000 euros in the event of the broadcast of the audiovisual recording of a hearing. And article 35 ter of the 1881 Act also contains provisions applicable in the case of the image of a person accused in criminal proceedings. It is not always possible to recall all the penalties provided for by law. I believe that it is appropriate to recall the principle, and then to refer to the provisions applicable in the event of non-compliance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u566	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 174.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u567	It is intended to reintroduce the possibility for magistrates to hand over to parents. I've been re-explained to make sure I understand and, perhaps, convince you. Why should we reintroduce the remission to parents – I say that I do not propose to remove the judicial warning, however? Because it is the act, as symbolic as it may seem, of handing over the children to their parents. It is true that, in the context of the judicial warning, parents are also supposed to be present as legal representatives of the minor, but they are only the indirect recipients of the message sent by the magistrate, unlike the handing over to parents, which places the educational responsibility of the parents at the heart of the provision. It also makes it clear to the minor that the judge is not the only authority: neither can he do what he wants at home. This measure therefore puts everyone back in their place by returning justice and parents to their respective authority. One practical aspect must also be taken into account: after two warnings, if I do not do so, a step must be taken in the measures applied. Remission to parents could be tried, when others have failed or before, depending on the judge's assessment of the situation, an assessment that must be trusted. The alleged simplification of the judicial warning, which merges the two previously existing measures, is not one. This is actually a decrease in the judge's toolbox. It would not cost much – or anything at all – politically to reintroduce this measure,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u568	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u569	... which would be very useful for the daily practice of professionals, especially magistrates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u570	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u571	Unfavorable opinion, as in committee. You yourself have also explained the reasons why we are against it. We wanted to modernize the terms in the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code so that they could better understand their meaning. The judicial warning thus replaces admonishment and handing over to parents. I would remind you that the surrender to parents consists of a meeting of the magistrate with the parents, during which the judge reminds them of their educational role. From handing over to parents, a symbolic measure, we have moved on to a real judicial warning, which, in my view, is more comprehensive and is better understood by the minor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u572	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u573	The Juvenile Criminal Justice Code has a goal of simplification and readability for all – minors, victims, families, citizens. What are we talking about here? A penalty. The penalty is beautiful: "I give you to your parents. You're talking about a penalty! For parents, it's not very pleasant and for the kid either, because it's putting him back in his natural place. You who are sensitive to words – in one word, you make ten amendments – will understand that I prefer a sanction worded "judicial warning" to one called "remission to parents". It's clearer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u574	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u575	This is an educational measure, Mr. Keeper of the Seals; A criminal measure, of course, since it is a sanction, but an educational measure. I repeat, because words make sense. On the other hand, I do not see how to retain only the judicial warning allows for simplification or better readability. This does not change anything: before, there was admonishment and handing over to parents; Now there's the judicial warning. The parents are here, but we can't give them their child anymore. However, the role of the judge is also to assess the situation in order to understand the child's problem because, as you yourself said earlier, the family environment is often cared for. The fact of pointing out the reality in the context of the handover to parents makes it possible to put everyone back in their place. The magistrate reminds the parents: "You are the authority vis-à-vis the child", meaning to the child that the authority of the judge is not the only one who exercises over him, and that he cannot do what he wants the rest of the time. It's still pretty clear. If the magistrates who helped us draft these amendments have proposed them to us, it is because they see it as an interest in their daily practice and consider the removal of the handover of the juvenile criminal justice code to parents as a problem. Besides, what is admonishment? That's to say, "That's not right, what you did. If I am your reasoning, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, it's not really a penalty either, but it's a disgrace to the child judge and his ability to be heard. I therefore solemnly repeat that the handing over to parents would be a positive tool in the box of educational measures available to judges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u576	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 175.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u577	Defendant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u578	It aims to make the juvenile judge alone competent in court to issue a judicial warning, in the name of the principle of specialization in juvenile justice. Article L. 111-2 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code provides that the Juvenile Court and the Juvenile Assize Court may issue a judicial warning, but also that the warning may also be issued by a police court. But it must be remembered – we have done little so far – that the magistrates of the police court are not specialized magistrates. This poses a problem: specialized measures are planned, but the magistrates themselves are not. However, we have stressed in the Chamber the importance of having specialized judges who have received training. Educational measures must be accompanied by a whole system including consideration of the child's environment. However, these measures cannot be handed down by the police court as envisaged today. Moreover, we also propose that fines from the first to the fourth classes be handed down by the juvenile judge, which would resolve the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u579	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u580	Unfavorable opinion. If it is appropriate to allow the police court the possibility of issuing contraventions from the first to the fourth class, it would not be reasonable not to allow it to issue judicial warnings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u581	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u582	Mr Bernalicis, everything is in everything, and vice versa. We're having a hard time following you. Anyway, I'm losing my Latin. You want to remove the possibility for the police court to issue a judicial warning, i.e. to deprive it of the possibility of imposing an educational measure; you would therefore only allow him to impose a sentence, which is unfavourable for the minor. It's amazing. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u583	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u584	It is the beauty of the parliamentary debate: things that may seem staggering out of context take a completely different logic when they are explained. You may not have heard the defense of my amendment, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, but I suggest that the police court should also not be competent to impose fines from the first to the fourth category. The judicial warning, in order to have its full scope, must be pronounced by a specialized court, otherwise it does not serve anything – or else it is done wrong: but I am not for things to be done wrong. In consistency, therefore, I am against the fact that the police court can issue a violation from the first to the fourth class, as well as the fact that it can issue a judicial warning. You see, Mr. Keeper of Seals, when you make an effort, you understand logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u585	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u586	As the rapporteur and the guardian of the seals have said, the judicial warning is an interesting measure in many cases, as it is in favour of the minor. Regarding the police court – and we understand that you are very interested, Mr Bernalicis – I would like to remind you that a fourth-class violation is a fine of 135 euros. We need to know what we're talking about: if you drive a continuous line, your case will be handled by the police court. But it is not because one commits a violation that one has a foot in delinquency and that one must immediately trigger an educational follow-up! [[Nicole Dubré-Chirat and Catherine Kamowski applauded Mr. Rémi Rebeyrotte]] Let's make the difference between the different paths: juvenile justice is a tailor-made justice that allows us to adapt to each other, and it seems to me in the interest of all to remain in this distribution. We are committed to the specialisation of the courts – we have even tabled an amendment on this subject concerning the judge of freedoms and detention, on which we have all agreed – but we must be measured and even, let me say it, of common sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u587	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 415.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u588	I defend him for my colleague Agnes Chill; It is the same as that of our colleague Bernalicis. I find it difficult to follow the reasoning of Mrs Louis, who once explained to us that we must specialize in the courts, and the next day that we must no longer specialize in them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u589	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u590	We are not against the sanction in itself. We only believe that this is a particular justice and that it is up to the children's judge to apply it. It seems to me that we are quite logical.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u591	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u592	This is not exactly the same amendment as that of Mr Bernalicis. We share your concern, but there is an interest in maintaining the limited powers of the police court with regard to first- and fourth-class fines and judicial warning. As you know, the juvenile judge is currently encountering difficulties in securing certain devices; It must be given jurisdiction over cases that really require its intervention, otherwise the juvenile court will be slit. That's not what we're looking for. For the less complex offences, it is therefore desirable to maintain the jurisdiction of the police court. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u593	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u594	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u595	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u596	Say it clearly: it's a matter of means. We've been denouncing him from the beginning. You haven't been responsible for the state of justice for 20 years, but now you have to take charge. We had denounced the fact that Ms. Belloubet's bill was not sufficiently funded. If the children's judges had enough resources, we wouldn't be there. Recognize it and move on to the subject, instead of camouflaging the problem. We have the least financed justice in Europe; It would be time to get around the table to offer means to the French justice system, and mainly to juvenile justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u597	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor to support Amendment No. 306.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u598	It is intended to supplement article L. 111-2 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code concerning the judicial warning which may be issued by the juvenile judge, the juvenile court or the police court. I do have a question. The article as written makes it possible to issue five, six, ten judicial warnings; there is no limit to the number of warnings issued. Of course, education must take precedence over repression for minors, but when we come to five warnings, I think we need to move on. This is the purpose of the amendment, which proposes to add a paragraph as follows: "A minor may cumulate a maximum of five judicial warnings. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u599	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u600	Unfavorable opinion. Let us not indicate to the judge the maximum number of judicial warnings that he or she may issue, so as not to limit his or her ability to adjudicate on the basis of the evidence before him or her.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u601	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u602	Let us trust him: after giving one, two or even three judicial warnings – which, in reality, is never the case – he will move on, if I can say so. It does not seem relevant to me to restrict it in its action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u603	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u604	Mrs Goulet, even if I hear your concerns, I think the judge should be left to decide. You propose that, beyond five judicial warnings, it be mandatory to move to a higher penalty. But that would mean replacing the sixth judicial warning with a kind of floor sentence – although your proposal is a little different in nature. I feel sorry for the idea. I ask you to withdraw, to let the judge have the widest possible range of tools; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u605	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 145.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u606	Article L. 112-2 of the new Code of Criminal Justice for Minors introduces measures – which you call modules – for the individual support of the minor, in order to put him back in the right direction. Of these, one, in particular – the curfew applicable to minors – is of common sense. However, I propose to reduce its beginning from 22 hours to 20 hours. It is obvious that a minor should not be allowed to hang out in the street late at night. This measure will enable the minor's parents or legal guardians to supervise him/her. [[Smile]] My proposal is in perfect harmony with the curfew just announced by the Prime Minister, which will begin on 15 December. So it was a premonitory amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u607	So he's already satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u608	Yes, he's satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u609	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u610	Of course, it is by joke that I say that the amendment is already satisfied. More seriously, under the leadership of the Chair of the Law Committee, we have already increased the curfew start time from twenty-three hours to twenty-two hours; This seems to me to be sufficiently binding. I would remind you that this is an educational measure, not a house arrest. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u611	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u612	Indeed, Mrs Ménard, we are talking about educational measures. With your proposal, how would one do, for extracurricular activities? For the twenty-thirty-hour judo class? And then, important integration steps can also be planned at those times. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u613	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u614	These educational measures must also have the effect of sanctioning, at least a little. If the minor concerned is prohibited from attending the twenty-thirty-hour judo course, he may always go to another, on Wednesday or Saturday. The measure must keep meaning! Minister, when some mayors issued curfews for minors under the age of 13, do you know who rejoiced? Mothers, because sometimes they don't have a grip on their kids.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u615	If they don't have a grip, they don't have to make their child do judo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u616	When an administrative – or judicial – measure in this case helps them fulfil their role as a parent, they are delighted. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u617	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u618	I understand that such measures have been adopted in some cities, and that some mothers have been happy with them. However, Mrs Ménard, you must understand that juvenile justice is based on individualisation. So we cannot introduce the generalized curfew that you call of your wishes – if I understand correctly. I was talking about judo classes, but they can also be integration procedures: the situation depends on each kid. So let us not restrict the timetables yet, especially since we are talking about educational measures here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u619	Yes, it's not repression!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u620	I repeat, therefore, that I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u621	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 288.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u622	The La France insoumée group proposes the deletion of paragraphs 25 and 26 of Article 3, introduced in committee, which concern excavations. They allow "the staff of institutions in the public sector or authorized by the juvenile justice system" to inspect the children's chambers and control their personal belongings. For us, this provision goes back to the logic that must prevail in these institutions, where education must take precedence over repression. Following the adoption of the amendment introducing this provision in committee, we discussed it with the trade union organisations. They had obtained the withdrawal of a similar measure at the Ministerial Technical Committee – CTM. Although, of course, I believe that our debates and the law must take precedence over everything, such a withdrawal shows that the Government was at that time rather unfavourable to this measure. It was in committee that he changed his mind – as the minister then gave a favourable opinion on this measure. I'm surprised. By allowing such searches, we would grant educators in these institutions the powers of prison overseers. If I understand your logic, I am absolutely not in favour of it, since educational measures must remain the norm, and these excavations would upset the relationship between educators and children.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u623	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u624	I would gladly allow Antoine Savignat to reply, since this measure was introduced following the adoption of one of his amendments. Mr Bernalicis, I would like to remind you that the scheme takes up a request from educators who wish to avoid the introduction of weapons or narcotics into institutions. In addition, he will be surrounded by sufficient guarantees: the minor will be present; the control will only be visual – it is not search; Finally, the principles of necessity and proportionality will be recalled. This was a good amendment by our colleague Antoine Savignat. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u625	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u626	Help! Really, help! Mr. Bernalicis, when a kid enters a self, you don't want to allow educators to look at his effects, to make sure there's no knife, no weapon? First, this provision was requested by the educators themselves. I don't understand you. You're showing that you're completely out of the ground! What's bothering to look at a kid's bag, to know what's in it? I don't see. We probably don't live in the same world. After a while, it's hopeless!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u627	Let's hope, Minister. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u628	We agree, minister: we do not live in the same world. We have neither the same course nor the same age; We are very different, so that our representations of the world are as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u629	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u630	Not the same values, either!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u631	Besides, you're in the government while I'm in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u632	And it's better like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u633	However, this is not my opinion – which could be mocked, since I am not much – but that of the two most representative trade union organisations in the sector, since they are the majority of them. These excavations did not exist so far: however, did these establishments encounter major problems? Were they on fire and blood? No. By-laws already prohibit the objects you are aiming at; When educators fall on it, action is taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u634	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u635	Yes, of course I do. The only question, therefore, is whether prior searches should be carried out, or whether searches should be carried out a priori.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u636	It's not a search, it's a visual check!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u637	Either, "visual controls," if you want to be more precise. But I know you, next time, you'll propose searches, for the same reasons. From text to text, that's how it has been for three years!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u638	No trial of intent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u639	No, let's not open this door, because education must take precedence over repression, including in this matter. Point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u640	It's already written in all letters!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u641	And yes, in my world, it will be like that, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u642	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u643	Mr Bernalicis, I confess that I do not understand too much. You have a young child, I think; I have a 10-year-old daughter. Now that she's grown up a little bit, I sometimes go into her room to look at her stuff. It seems to me to be consistent with his age.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u644	It's different!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u645	[[Laughs]] No, it's the same thing – we're talking about children here, in centres, who can be led to commit nonsense. Educators must be able to conduct not a search, but an inspection. With a search, we imagine the police returning all the cases, we think about the searches – but you know what it is. I'm sorry to contradict you: when you inspect a child's room, it's still about education, not punishment. Be reasonable! In holiday camps too, educators can inspect children's affairs – it's normal, it's logical that they do something stupid. Why, then, make it a repressive measure, present us as dangerous dictators? Be measured! You discredit yourself, as you may be right, and I sometimes agree with you. We don't want to listen to you anymore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u646	I'm not forcing you to do anything, Mr. Balanant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u647	Yes, we have to listen to you, at least a little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u648	Mr Antoine Savignat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u649	This is in line with a demand from professionals to protect themselves and other minors in these closed centres. A bag can contain everything – a weapon, or narcotics. When a person takes a plane, or enters the Palais-Bourbon, his bag is checked.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u650	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u651	But no, that's not the case for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u652	I am not talking about the bags of Members of Parliament, but about the bags of visitors. The same applies when you enter a supermarket or shopping mall. In addition, the emphasis on education is also to make it clear to minors that in these centres there is an authority, a regulation, responsible adults who preserve the minors present by ensuring that no dangerous objects are introduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u653	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u654	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u655	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u656	Mr Savignat has just presented in an extremely fair way the value of the measure. When talking about juvenile criminal justice, we must stop opposing repression with education, since the sanction, when applied with measure, is part of an educational path. Moreover, and above all, it is a matter of protecting minors – sometimes on their own, since some can harm themselves – as well as the agents who work with them on a daily basis. It is up to us to give educators this opportunity to do their job well. This visual inspection is therefore not a punitive measure; It aims to ensure that everything is done in the best possible conditions. We have therefore been right to adopt this good proposal from Mr Savignant, and we should all agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u657	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u658	My services provide me with the following information – to the good hearer, hi: last week, after the disappearance of a large knife in the kitchen of a self, it took four days for the gendarmes to conduct a search.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u659	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u660	It's a long time, four days!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u661	We can do it, things, in four days!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u662	Amendment No 362 by the rapporteur is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u663	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, who supports Amendment No 176, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u664	It is proposed that the exemption from educational measures or the declaration of educational success cannot be entered in the B1 of the juvenile's criminal record. You explained to me in committee that these entries were positive for the minor, and that Bulletin No. 1 of the criminal record was reserved for magistrates. I believe that what is really positive for the minor is to have a virgin B1, not a supposedly positive inscription. What can be proposed most favourably, in the event of educational success, would therefore be to do nothing. I am defending this proposal with vigour again, especially since today a lot of things are written not only in the B1 but also in the TAJ, the file of judicial history processing, and that it is necessary to get up early to get their erasure. You will tell me that there are automatic erasures, but there have been many checks that have not taken place. As for the erasures on demand, either they take a certain time, or they do not end. We are dealing with minors: for certain matters, there must be limits to criminal record entry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u665	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u666	I hope to present my arguments with the same vigour as Mr Bernalicis. The removal of exemption measures or declarations of educational success is already provided for after three years by article L. 631-3 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code. We are only talking about Bulletin No. 1, that is to say, part of the criminal record reserved exclusively for magistrates and prison establishments. It is important that these persons have access to the juvenile's judicial history. Moreover, as you mentioned, it seems to me that a waiver or a declaration of success is more in favour of the minor. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u667	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u668	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u669	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u670	If I am not mistaken, in the cases concerned, the original version of the 1945 Order did not provide for inclusion in the B1. In other words, you're proposing to put something in it that wasn't. I repeat: the most favourable measure for the minor would be that nothing would be included in the B1. If one day he has to meet again with a magistrate, it gives the assurance that he will enjoy a neutral look.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u671	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u672	I don't understand your logic, Mr. Bernalicis. Let us imagine that an educational measure is pronounced and that the child concerned has behaved well: if no record of this success is kept in the B1, and that, unfortunately, a few months or years later, there is a recurrence, the judge will know that the child has previously been convicted without being informed that he or she has accepted the educational measures and the accompanying measures. He may then impose a more severe penalty if he is not convinced that the minor will accept his sentence and will be able to work on himself. By refusing to enrol in the B1, you ultimately reduce the chances of the child continuing to re-integrate and succeed in his or her career. That is a shame, and I confess that I find it difficult to understand the meaning of your amendment in the light of your philosophy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u673	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 76.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u674	[[Mr Erwan Balanant and Mr Bruno Questel applaud]] Before going to the amendment, Mr President, allow me to say to Mrs Ménard that when a child goes to a club, participates in a cultural activity, is in a place of socialisation in the presence of often volunteer mentors, it helps mothers a lot. They have to have time to do it. The amendment aims to reintroduce the obligation, deleted by the Ordinance of 11 September 2019, to summon the minor and his legal representatives, within a maximum period of five working days, to the Youth Judicial Protection Service designated for the implementation of the decision, as the minor who is the subject of an educational measure must be taken over as soon as possible. As the former president of the Bobigny Children's Court, Jean-Pierre Rosenczveig, notes, "The chancellery thus recognizes that the state is unable to deliver on its own commitments and thus renounces it. The Taubira project increased the delay from 5 to 15 days! The Belloubet text simply removes this obligation." "It is argued that the implementing decree would take over this legislative mechanism today," he adds, but in his view it would be a step backwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u675	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u676	Unfavorable opinion. I said in committee: the educational measures are enforceable and the minor does not leave the court without a summons. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory. A period of notice will be provided for in the regulatory part of the code. However, this time limit did not allow for a reduction in the time taken to take over. It is only through increased means that this difficulty can be resolved, and it seems to me that the Government has made significant efforts in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u677	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u678	Unfavorable opinion. The amendment seems to me to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u679	Amendment No 55 by Mr Antoine Savignat is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u680	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 177.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u681	It is intended to remove the prohibitions on the appearance and contact of the victim or co-authors or accomplices from the list of judicial educational measures, since in our view these prohibitions are tantamount to security measures that should be imposed only in the context of judicial review. Both spoke of multiple risks of confusion earlier: there is total confusion in this case when security measures are placed among educational measures, where they do not have to be found in any case. In any event, nothing prevents the magistrate, when discussing educational measures with a young person, from telling him that he does not want him to go here or there, or to meet such a person. This is already being done, and the judge only moves to a real measure of judicial control if his instructions are not followed. If you leave these kinds of provisions in a list of educational measures and violate them do not have consequences, you create confusion with true judicial control.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u682	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u683	Unfavorable opinion. The possibility of prohibiting the appearance or contact of the victim as part of an educational measure is relevant, since it allows the protection of victims without imposing a sentence or judicial review against the juvenile offender. My colleague, your amendment is counterproductive: it will encourage judicial checks or penalties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u684	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u685	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u686	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u687	That is exactly what I was saying, Mr rapporteur. You are moving in my direction: you are creating confusion between what is under judicial control, with all that this implies, and educational measures. I am opposed to this confusion. If you want a real ban, it is best to ask for a judicial review.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u688	You're against criminal justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u689	If there is still education, the magistrate can tell the child in the discussion during which he or she sets out his or her obligations. In any case, the magistrates explain to me that this is what they are doing today. Is this a major problem? No! If the instructions are not followed, the magistrate has elements for a graduated answer: he can move on to something that has nothing to do with judicial control, with everything he represents, but he must retain all his specific value.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u690	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u691	Prohibitions are also part of education. In the present case, they are also intended to protect possible victims and to prevent the minor from finding people who have a bad influence on him. With these measures, we are therefore at the heart of education, even if they can also be applied in the context of judicial review, but with other purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u692	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u693	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These prohibitions must be punished. This is part of the educational process. Mr Bernalicis, it is not enough for the judge to tell a minor who has taken a course of crime that it would be good if he did not go to such a place. In reality, it doesn't work like that. Sometimes it doesn't work if there's no sanction. We must not be afraid of punishment; It is part of the educational process.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u694	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 143.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u695	It is intended to prohibit minors under judicial educational measures not only from coming into contact with the victim, but also from taking any action whose purpose would result in contact with the victim. The aim is to sanction the attempt to come into contact on the same basis as the actual contact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u696	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 144.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u697	Depending on the offence and the damage caused to the victim, for the purpose of protecting the victim, it may be useful to provide for the persons responsible to be removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u698	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u699	Unfavorable opinion. You wish that the prohibition of contact with the victim or co-authors or accomplices for a period of not more than one year may apply to "one year or more". This would amount to setting no time limits, which would cause problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u700	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u701	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u702	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u703	The prohibition would in any event be limited by the duration of the sanction. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u704	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u705	Article L. 112-2 of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code provides for "a prohibition to appear for a period not exceeding one year in the place or places in which the offence was committed and designated by the court, with the exception of places in which the minor habitually resides". This prohibition cannot apply to minors under 10 years of age. It is not clear why, if it proves relevant. The same article provides for "the obligation to attend a civic training course, which may not exceed one month, with the aim of reminding the minor of the obligations resulting from the law". Similarly, the provision does not apply to minors under the age of 10. Again, depending on the seriousness of the fault, it seems to me quite possible to adapt the civic training course to the child's age. Internships must obviously have different objects depending on whether the child is 8 or 15 years old. It would be regrettable, in my view, to deprive ourselves of such a measure, especially if it is effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u706	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u707	Mrs Ménard, we are talking about minors under the age of 10. In any case, they would not be held criminally responsible. I'm not sure a child under the age of 10 can really understand what the ban on appearing can cover. My opinion is very unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u708	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u709	Madame Ménard, we mustn't exaggerate! Frankly, who are we talking about? Minors under the age of 10... I spoke to Mrs. Le Pen about people between the ages of 7 and 77. It makes you smile... There we are, within two years. Everything that is excessive is insignificant, you know it perfectly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u710	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u711	I'm talking about a civic training course, which can obviously be adapted to the child's age...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u712	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u713	Yes! I have no idea what a suitable sanction can be, but when I was in primary school, we kept – during recreation – the children who were making mistakes for cleaning the painting: it was perfectly suited to their age! If the family is failing, the justice system can adapt the educational measures, taking into account the age of the child, why not do so?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u714	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u715	Madame Ménard, you know you've been excessive, so you decide to tell us about a painting to erase... Forgive me, but your amendment concerns a ban on a 9-year-old child! It's not about erasing the chalk on a board!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u716	I'm talking about a civic training course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u717	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-12-10-O1115.u718	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the bill ratifying the Ordinance of 11 September 2019 on the legislative part of the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code. The meeting is adjourned.
