ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u1	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of Mrs Charlotte Lecocq's motion for a resolution calling for France to be one of the most successful countries in the field of occupational health (No. 3090).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u2	In the general debate, Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u3	Now is the time to focus our discussions on occupational health, which is often the poor parent of public policy. It is with this aim in mind that the Members of the Democratic and Related Groups, the Democratic Movement and Action Together, are proposing this resolution. The issues in the field of occupational health are immense. At a time when our world is constantly changing and is undergoing many upheavals, and technology is making a profound change in work, new risks are emerging. Pressure from an increasingly competitive business environment, coupled with consumer or user demands, increases psychosocial risks. Finally, the working population is ageing and, despite real improvements in working conditions, many workers are affected by work wear and tear, which weakens their opportunities to keep their jobs, especially at the end of their careers. However, having a professional activity preserves health better than unemployment, and we believe deeply in social empowerment through work. However, to be a real vehicle for emancipation, work must preserve the physical and mental health of everyone, whether they are workers, civil servants, managers, entrepreneurs, temporary workers, independent workers or farmers. This is a conviction that we share widely on all of these benches, as demonstrated by recent parliamentary work in both the National Assembly and the Senate. It is, it seems to me, also shared by the Government, which in recent years has commissioned several reports – I myself had the honour, Madam Minister of Labour, to respond to your request and that of the Prime Minister in this regard. This work has one thing in common: it reminds us that the human issues involved in occupational health are major and demonstrate that our responses to them are insufficient. In this respect, I will mention a single figure: only 4% of occupational health funding is dedicated to prevention, while the rest is dedicated to reparation. We must correct this trend. The health crisis that we are going through has also highlighted these repeated observations. While we are still unaware of the future developments of this crisis and the uncertainties about possible new risks are high, we must act. This motion for a resolution is a prerequisite for the drafting of a bill that we wish to present to the National Assembly by the end of the year. We wish to build this text in close conjunction with the negotiations reopened by the social partners on 15 June. We also want to involve widely the partners from all the benches of this assembly, as well as the first concerned: the actors on the ground. This bill will have three major ambitions. The first is to make occupational health a priority of public policy and to make the company a real prevention ground. We want companies to be encouraged to spread public health messages and implement actions that benefit the health of their employees. Like Alphonse Karr, we are convinced that "to work well, you have to be well". The second objective is to provide France with a more effective occupational health system. In this way, we want to break down occupational health and public health, and ensure that the occupational physician is truly integrated into the care path. We also advocate the creation of a nursing degree in advanced practices in the field of occupational health in order to respond to the shortage of doctors. Occupational health can rely on the skills and commitment of professionals. In this way, we wish to continue the deployment of multidisciplinary teams and promote the supervised development of telemedicine. The third objective is to better prevent professional wear and tear, by establishing a close link between exposure to risks and career paths. We call for work to be truly accessible to the most vulnerable of us, including people with disabilities or chronic conditions. No one should be excluded from the world of work because of cancer or a serious accident. The work must adapt and offer opportunities to all of us. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] We believe in the company focused on global performance, balancing human, economic and environmental issues – a company with meaning and future. That is why we propose this resolution and call for France to be one of the best performing countries in the field of occupational health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u4	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u5	I think I can say that there is a consensus on the issue that has been put on the agenda. We need to change our occupational health system, adjust it – the STIS, the inter-firm occupational health services themselves recognize it. So we say yes, clearly and unequivocally, to an occupational health reform, for which we are willing. I am all the more pleased to say that, as part of the flash mission I conducted a few weeks ago with a colleague from the La République group who is working on the application of labour and employment orders to deal with the economic, financial and social consequences of the spread of the covid epidemic -19, we felt on the part of some economic actors expressions of acrimony, probably unjustified, as regards the functioning of health at work during this period. It is therefore time to put the question on the table, so that we know where we are in practice. The resolution you are proposing to adopt calls for "to make France one of the best performing countries in the field of occupational health". To this end, you have three ambitions: to make this topic a priority of public policies, to equip France with a system of occupational health actors that is more efficient and geared towards the prevention of occupational risks, and to prevent occupational wear and tear. I repeat: we are in favour of it. In fact, the Gaullist I am – like many other colleagues in this room – can only be sensitive to the question of the place of man in society and the idea of the valorisation of human skills in the company, but what are, in concrete terms, beyond these great principles, your proposals? Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it is up to you to make concrete proposals,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u6	That's what we do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u7	... to propose devices and change the order of things, not just to mention broad guidelines or to express intentions. Ms.Lecocq, you tabled a report in August 2018 that was extensively commented on and in which you made 16 recommendations. There was no lack of audacity or scope in this report. Nearly two years later, however, in 2020, nothing happened, even though this issue is on the table and should be relevant. I have the feeling that the motion for a resolution before us today aims to make us wait and fill a kind of lack of will on the part of a majority who will not know how to deal with it. You do not even propose to us today the outline of an element of the reform that the country expects on such an issue. You invite us to welcome the Government's mobilization on the need to rethink the organization of work, to note that several reports have been tabled and to announce the Assembly's determination to legislate by the end of the legislature on the subject of a reorganization in this area. Forgive me for saying it, but we're not moving! I would have preferred that today's work should have focused on a piece of legislation rather than on a motion for a resolution that I think is very late in view of what you are talking about. I hope that you will be able to legislate, and I hope, Madam Minister, that the Government will not resort to this somewhat cavalier or abusive method of doing so by order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u8	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u9	From the Gaullist you are...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u10	On this subject, we want to discuss and debate, and I hope that the social partners are very much involved in this process. The explanatory memorandum refers to a desire for co-construction; I therefore ask that this debate not be confiscated. It is clear that the issue is topical, after a wave of epidemics and a health crisis that have had an impact on working conditions and with this new form of work that is telework, much of which has been discussed and which leads to new psychosocial risks. The need to reflect on how to protect the health of our compatriots at work. More generally, if we want to promote the value of work, put it in principle and define its meaning and scope, we need to address the issue of working conditions. The Republican Group will therefore abstain, as you will understand, in the vote on this motion for a resolution. Our abstention will be demanding, because we want the issue to be dealt with quickly and in its entirety. We hope that a universal occupational health service will also include self-employed workers, who, even if they are not salaried, deserve protection as well. We want occupational medicine to be connected as much as possible to city medicine, even if we are talking about various issues relating to the shared medical record. It is indeed a journey of life for us, a journey of care that must involve all the actors of health. Finally, we would like to see a review of the funding of the system, as it seems to us to be somewhat inequitable at the moment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The comments I have just made come from a position which is more demanding than refusing, in response to your speech, dear colleague, and to the resolution proposed to this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u11	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u12	The issue of occupational health has been the subject of several parliamentary work and reports since the beginning of the legislature, which have highlighted the urgent need to thoroughly review the organization of the occupational health system in order to make it more responsive to the contemporary realities of the world of work. While the French system is at the forefront in terms of the limitation of accidents at work and the compensation of occupational diseases, it presents imperfections in the fields of prevention, governance and coordination of the multiple institutional actors. Above all, the legislation is too rigid with regard to the national entrepreneurial fabric, which is made up of a vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises. These findings were well established in the report submitted to the Prime Minister by our colleague Charlotte Lecoq almost two years ago. The MODEM Group fully shares the desire expressed in this motion for a resolution to achieve a reform of the occupational health ecosystem in a spirit of co-construction with the social partners, who must take their full part in this reflection. It is necessary to leave the necessary space for interprofessional trade union discussion, since the question of the health of employees in the exercise of their professional activity falls directly within its sphere of competence. We therefore welcome the fact that, as stated in the text before us for approval, the social partners are prepared to work quickly on the opening of negotiations. The health crisis has also demonstrated the difficulties encountered by certain sectors in providing an appropriate response to occupational risks in the company. While the Government, through the work of the Ministry of Labour, has made it possible to establish effective protocols, it is now essential to develop appropriate tools and to build a decision-making strategy so that all employees in our country can be informed and protected in the same way, regardless of the size of their business and the specifics of their sector of activity. As such, the MODEM Group fully endorses the three axes presented in this text, with particular attention to prevention. Indeed, since the beginning of the legislature, our group has been deeply committed to a strengthened prevention policy in public health. It seems clear to us that prevention must be the cornerstone of our action in the area of occupational health. It is by using this lever that we can build a renewed approach to occupational health and enable employees to benefit from the clearest and most legible information on socio-occupational risks. In this context, it is essential to include occupational health in the various work on public health and the national health strategy. One cannot go without the other. Unfortunately, declarations of intent will not suffice, and significant financial and operational resources must be put in place by the public authorities to achieve this. Of course, in the current economic context, which is very degraded, this will not be easy, but we are counting on all the stakeholders – of which we are part – to find solutions that match the ambition set out in the motion for a resolution. We will also pay attention to the organisational reshaping of occupational health, which must emerge from sclerotic centralism and gain in simplification. This implies that actors on the ground in the regions are closely involved in the process of drafting the reform. Finally, if some of the levers we are talking about today can be exploited through inter-branch negotiation and regulation, it seems that we will also have to go through legislation. Will it be possible to legislate in this direction by the end of this Parliament, when the agenda of our Assembly is taking on more and more responsibility? This question requires a prompt response from the Government. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Take action together]] It is therefore in line with the various ambitions set out in this text and with the desire to see them completed as soon as possible that the MODEM Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u13	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u14	This motion for a resolution announces the will of the majority group to legislate by the end of the legislature on the issue of occupational health, which, as this text points out, is a major public health issue. We must indeed strengthen the protection of workers' health, particularly in terms of prevention, against both physical and psychosocial risks, such as burn-out or depression. However, the usefulness of a text that has no legislative scope and does not add any new elements can be questioned. The social partners have just resumed, on the basis of a letter of guidance from the Government – which some union leaders have regretted the lack of ambition – the discussions on health reform at work. These discussions are expected to last until November. Rather than looking at a particularly talkative motion for a resolution that merely announces that a law will come later, why not wait for the outcome of these negotiations? We must let the social partners work! On the other hand, while Ms. Lecocq's expertise, which had produced two reports on the issue of occupational health, was indisputable, it should be noted that the record of the Government and the parliamentary majority on those issues was not the most glorious. In particular, mention should be made of the disappearance of the CHSCTs, the health, safety and working conditions committees, to the benefit of the CSEs, the social and economic committees: by leading to the creation of a single body for the representation of employees, this reform has led to the relegation of occupational health issues in many companies. Today, with the health crisis, everyone can realize the value of having a separate body entirely dedicated to issues of safety, health and working conditions. As a result of centralisation within the SSCs, bodies without territorial networking or real proximity to workers, health warnings could not be heard in some large companies. This is the case for Amazon France, who was sentenced in summary by the Versailles Court of Appeal for failing to properly assess the risks to its employees caused by the covid-19 epidemic and not involving staff representatives in this assessment. Let us also recall the majority's refusal to move forward on the issue of burn-out. By 2018, however, our group – notably Régis Juanico and Boris Vallaud – had proposed, in a very pragmatic way, to experiment with the reduction of the partial permanent disability rate from 25% to 10% so that the files of psychological disorders could be declared admissible and examined by the regional committees for the recognition of occupational diseases. Finally, let us recall the pension record and the removal in 2017 of the consideration of the four factors of penitibility – painful postures, mechanical vibrations, manual handling of loads, contact with dangerous chemical agents – and, more recently, the attempt to eliminate early departures for the most painful occupations in the public service as part of the bill establishing a universal retirement system. We will not vote for this motion for a resolution with no obvious added value.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u15	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u16	Our group, and especially my colleague Francis Vercamer – who leaves us for new adventures as mayor and whose commitment in his community I welcome – has long advocated for a better consideration of prevention in our health policies. Health at work is, of course, one of the priorities in terms of prevention, since work, a place of daily life for the French, is sometimes a source of suffering. Unfortunately, our country is still lagging behind on this vital issue, as you have pointed out very well, Mrs Lecocq, when there is an urgent need to move forward so that occupational diseases are better taken into account and to improve the quality of life at work for all employees. The IDU and independent group therefore welcomes the inclusion on the agenda of the present motion for a resolution, of which our colleague Charlotte Lecocq is on the initiative. Occupational health is indeed a challenge for our labour market, especially as the ageing of the population has profound implications, as it involves the retention of an increasing proportion of seniors and affects the quality of life of millions of employees. Changes in the work environment present stress and uncertainty. The telework, which our country has discovered massively in recent months, is thus deeply ambivalent. It can be very well lived by the employee and allow a better reconciliation between private and professional life, but, conversely, sometimes creating additional confusion and time constraints, it can also degrade the quality of life at work. It is therefore time to take this question in arms, and I congratulate you, Mrs Lecocq, on having done so. The future of occupational health services and our occupational medicine is a first challenge. The occupational physician profession, which is experiencing an alarming shortage, needs to be upgraded as soon as medical studies are carried out. Why not think, in consultation with health professionals, about an extension of the right of prescription of doctors at work for a curative purpose? We need to get out of the silo logics and develop the bridges between the world of work and city medicine. Our group had defended the idea of a compulsory medical examination at the end of the career, in conjunction with the attending physician, for the professions carrying risks. With regard to occupational exposure to certain risks, such as chemicals, the expertise of the occupational doctor would improve the monitoring of the health status of employees and could be used more effectively. On the problem of penitibility, generally speaking, we must be humble and admit that we have not yet found the right solution. The major difficulty lies in the proper consideration of this factor and the associated risk. The occupational prevention account, which replaced the C3P, the personal penitential prevention account, since work orders, certainly does not constitute the panacea and probably needs to be revisited. It must also be admitted, however, that the C3P was too complex to apply for small businesses. So we have to put the book back on the job. We are at your disposal to take part in this reflection. This work must be done through collective bargaining and industry agreements. On this burning subject, we should not relive the sequence of a few months ago. The association of the social partners should be a prerequisite if the Government decided to put the pension reform on the agenda. As our country barely recovers from the covid-19 pandemic, it is more necessary than ever to listen to the country's living forces. Finally, we consider that the development of forms of employment must be an integral part of the reflections on health at work. I am thinking in particular of the uberisation of certain professions and the specific question of the status of workers on platforms – a situation often synonymous with precariousness and diminished social rights, and which must not be left out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u17	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u18	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If our group supports this motion for a resolution, it cannot remain a dead letter. It must be the prelude to an ambitious, re-drafting text that addresses all the issues of occupational health. You can count on us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u19	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u20	The issue of occupational safety has been raised in an increased and new way with the outbreak of the covid -19 epidemic. During confinement, as well as since the beginning of the de-consolidation process, it has been necessary to define new rules on safety and health at work, in particular through sectoral good practice guides. At the time, our colleague Jeanine Dubie had asked the Government about the place of occupational medicine in the new post-confinement protocol. Prevention of the health of workers, apart from and during health crises, is at the heart of the mission of occupational health services. However, many economic actors regretted their lack of involvement and responsiveness during confinement. Many say they have not been sufficiently supported and accompanied by these services to improve the health policy of their businesses. This leads to the question of the means and capacity for action of occupational health services, with a view not only to a lasting control of the spread of the epidemic, but also to a possible resurgence of the epidemic. Should we be surprised to see such malfunctions? No. For several years, many reports have alerted the public authorities to this situation. That is why we must stop procrastination and really reform health at work. We must therefore provide concrete answers to the shortage of doctors at work. Medical desertification does not spare the world of work: with a doctor for 4000 employees in the private sector, these professionals are almost half as numerous as they were about 15 years ago. In national education, there is only one doctor per 20,000 officers. Innovations are beginning to emerge, such as teleconsultation. Good, but that doesn't solve everything, we all know. It would be necessary to initiate reflections on occupational disintegration or on better coordination with city medicine in order to respond to the low attractiveness of the profession and the low effectiveness of prevention and follow-up policies. In general, the system is unreadable, difficult to access for small businesses and insufficiently focused on prevention. The most recent report of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs is rather harsh towards the SSTIs, in particular with regard to the quality of the service rendered, and towards governance, which is considered too complex. We must therefore take action to strengthen prevention, which must be accessible to all companies, regardless of their size, at the service of employees and within the framework of appropriate governance. Of course, progress has been made: in 70 years we have increased from 120 to 34 accidents at work per 1000 employees. Nevertheless, we must do better, and quickly. Handling remains the leading cause of accidents, a phenomenon largely favoured by the development of e-commerce and the growth of the logistics sector. One in ten employees suffers from a work accident with a stoppage. Psychosocial risks and occupational cancers are also increasing. The construction and construction sector, the BTP, is heavily affected, as well as personal services, which are three times more exposed than the average. We must therefore pay constant attention to the new risks that arise with changes in work. This essential reform must be carried out on the basis of social dialogue. The social partners are essential, since employers' and employees' organisations are piloting the SSTIs. Of course, negotiations are not easy. In July 2019, the social partners ended their cycle of meetings under the auspices of the State, unfortunately without having reached an agreement. In particular, unions criticise and disagree with the funding of ITTS by employers' organizations. Nevertheless, negotiations are essential. While everyone agrees that occupational health reform is essential, the Libertés et territoires Group is surprised at the fact that a motion for a resolution on the subject has been included today. We know that such a reform has been under consideration for just over two and a half years and has been continuously postponed. However, since 15 June, the social partners have opened a new negotiation. That is why, if we share your findings and your ambition, we question the usefulness of such a resolution, if not to exert some form of pressure on the social partners. The LT Group will therefore abstain from voting on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u21	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u22	There are words – and then there are deeds. There are the nice words: you propose to make France one of the best performing countries in the field of occupational health – and then there are the acts. Your actions are to gassing angry caregivers, exhausted by the hours spent treating us and our loved ones, without means, without having been tested and too often without protection. Farida C. is one of them. Tuesday, as she was demonstrating, she was pulled by her hair, dragged to the ground, abused, while she begged for her Ventolin. His words are: "I don't understand why caregivers are being gassed. We come to claim our rights, we come to say, "Help, the hospital burns!" It has been a long time since we told you that we are going wrong, that we can no longer treat people with dignity, that we can no longer honour our missions. You don't hear, you're sending us gas? It's amazing, I thought it was over, that I thought we were the heroes of the Republic..." Your actions are to remove certain criteria of penitibility, break the labour code by ordinances and destroy the CHSCT. Your actions are to allow seconded work, which operates more than 1 million employees in our country. Your actions are destroying the labour inspectorate and punishing inspectors when they disturb companies too much to your liking, as was the case with Anthony Smith, who only asked a structure to equip its employees in masks. Your actions are to allow companies to maintain their non-essential activities, despite the fact that thousands of employees are unnecessarily exposed to the virus. Your actions are to reject a bill for the recognition of burn-out as an occupational disease. However, this occupational exhaustion syndrome has been known since 1975, measured, documented, classified, quantified – but it is ignored by law. Your actions are to reject our proposal that covid -19 infection be recognized as an occupational disease, while caregivers, cashiers, housekeepers who mobilized during confinement and contracted the virus have paid the price of your idleness and that of their management. Your actions are to sweep away our bill to ban glyphosate, which poisons the population, and the peasants in the first place, since this pesticide increases the risk of cancer among agricultural workers by 41%. Your words, those contained in the motion for a resolution, take great care to avoid social and economic inequalities. Yet these are inextricably linked to health inequalities. It is this sociological reality that you are evacuating from every line of the motion for a resolution. In your world, companies will only have to spread public health messages about addictions, sleep, nutrition... and the problem will be solved. In no way do you make the genesis of such pathologies. You say, for example, that "no one should be excluded from the world of work because he has suffered cancer or a serious accident." Again, you take the problem backwards. As the health sociologist Annie Thébaud-Mony points out: in the 1980s, a worker was four times more likely to die from cancer than a senior executive; Today's ten times more! The workers of this country are not in a state of social weightlessness. Addressing health inequalities forces us to rethink our economic system at its root. Health at work presents us with a challenge that goes far beyond the pale communication to which your text is reduced. That you dare to table a motion for a resolution to make France one of the best performing countries in the field of occupational health seems to be a provocation. It is as if you are tabling a motion for a resolution for a better distribution of wealth after having lowered the APLs, the personalized aids to housing, and removed the solidarity tax on wealth, the ISF. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] There are words – and then there are deeds. When words are hollow and the political will is lacking, the result is disastrous: at least ten people die every week in their workplace in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u23	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u24	I would like to thank you, colleagues, for highlighting health at work. Today, even more than yesterday, it is a major issue. Indeed, in the context of the health crisis, we were able to see that our model, based almost exclusively on economic performance, was often insufficient. We need to consider how best to rebuild our economic and social model, this time putting the human in the forefront. Unfortunately, occupational health is often reduced to the issue of preventing the risks to which employees may be exposed. There is a need for a more global view of this. Occupational health does not stop at risks or the protection of damage, but also concerns the physical, mental and social well-being of employees. The idea that this is the responsibility of the employer may seem obvious. Who would want his company to have one or more employees show signs of a burn-out – although this is a frequent situation? And yet, the statistics indicate that this scourge exists and is only getting worse. Behind the alarming figures, it is women and men who are upset and broken. We must therefore rethink the organisation of health at work: this is one of the points raised by the motion for a resolution. However, reports should not be limited; You have to demand something else. Reports on the subject, there are, and many. Why not take the subject right now and move on to action? The same applies to the reform that you call your vows. The three themes you have defined are extremely important. You are committed to making occupational health a priority of public policy, to ensuring rapid and high-quality access to health services at work, and finally to strengthening the means of access and retention in employment for the most vulnerable workers. However, it is only a commitment to implement a reform, while we Members of the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group, as well as a large part of national representation and all of our fellow citizens, want action. Reorganisation of the governance and functioning of occupational health institutions must be undertaken very quickly. I myself had the opportunity to meet with representatives of the Occupational Health Business Service in my riding of Deux-Sèvres. They gave me some thought, which I'm happy to share with you. They thus alerted me to various points such as the lack of enthusiasm on the part of medical interns for a position in occupational medicine. Indeed, after so many years of study, students prefer to pursue something other than prevention in a professional setting. Nevertheless, the average age of liberal doctors in the Deux-Sèvres department is 61 years. According to the representatives of the department, it would be necessary to expand the occupational health skills of state-qualified nurses, which would, in particular, make it possible to redistribute missions. For example, in the tertiary sector, return visits would only take place before a doctor when the work stoppage exceeds three months, compared with one month at present. Occupational health nurses would take over for stoppages of less than three months. The future inter-branch negotiation that you promise seems to me necessary. We must listen and, above all, hear what the main stakeholders have to say, especially when the stakes are so important. Occupational health requires prevention and, above all, change. The epidemic of covid-19, through its brutality, has prevented us from working effectively and serenely on hard work within the framework of the bill establishing a universal pension system, and that is regrettable. [[Ms. Carole Grandjean applauds]] Despite the many comments I have been able to make, MEPs in the EDS Group will vote for the motion for a resolution, hoping that all employees will benefit very quickly from better protection of their health at work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u26	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u27	This motion for a resolution calls for improving the country's health performance at work – a subject that must indeed reach consensus, dear Stéphane Viry. It is undeniable that the health crisis also acts as a sign of the specificities of the French model of employment, its strengths as well as its shortcomings. I have already had the opportunity to question the Government, here, about the risk of virus contamination by many professionals as part of their work. Last week, Secretary of State Pietraszewski confirmed that decrees should soon recognize covid infection -19 as an occupational disease – the state thus expressing its duty to these professions. This a posteriori recognition underlines the considerable importance of the company as a key player in the protection of the health of its employees. It was the company that was at the forefront of the crisis, and it must therefore have sufficient resources to respond as quickly as possible, with the State intervening only in the second place. However, in the face of the health crisis, many companies have found themselves secluded, not knowing who to turn to in terms of prevention. The main avenue for improvement is certainly the strengthening of the preventive capacity of enterprises, which is a prerequisite for any structural reform of health issues in the workplace. Indeed, when a crisis of this magnitude occurs, the effectiveness of the response depends entirely on the means used to avoid the extension of its effects and their long-term consequences. The proverb that it is better to prevent than cure takes its full meaning here: one must in all things know how to take measures of precautions in order to avoid as much as possible difficulties. It is indeed easier to prevent a painful problem than to solve it. The report entitled "Health at Work: Towards a Simplified System for Enhanced Prevention", submitted to the Prime Minister in August 2018 by our colleague Charlotte Lecocq, proposes to promote business access to prevention through the establishment of a one-stop shop at the regional level. The Group of the European People's Party is in favour of this simplification, which will save the time needed and welcome. In addition, consideration must be given to upgrading the occupational physician profession, as it is observed that the profession is ultimately chosen by medical students, proof of its lack of attractiveness. It is essential to restore to occupational medicine its letters of nobility by giving it a recognized place in the career path of care of the employee and by instituting it as a true reference with the city doctors. Your motion for a resolution is in this direction, which satisfies us. You also stress the importance of professional inclusion. Like you, I am firmly convinced that the company of tomorrow must be more united and adapted to the specificities of each individual. Society is a whole: we are all connected to each other. It is essential that the work be accessible to the most vulnerable of us so that their fragility today can be transformed into a force for the community. I would also like to stress the need to provide legal certainty to employers by limiting the possibility that their liability will be incurred when one of their employees suffers from a disease such as covid -19. Given the pandemic risk, which is demonstrated daily by the fact that it remains extremely difficult to control, it would be consistent to better adapt the legal framework for employers' responsibility. Thus, since there is no intentional fault and the company has made all means of personal protection available to employees, it should not be placed on the company the moral and financial weight of a possible infringement of its criminal and civil liability and the respective responsibilities and obligations arising therefrom should be clarified. It would be necessary for the legal framework to evolve taking these considerations into account. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The text on our agenda is intended to open the debate on the necessary reform of the occupational health system. I would like to thank our colleagues Carole Grandjean, Charlotte Lecocq and Cendra Motin for bringing this subject to our House with strength. The members of the Action Together Group will support the motion for a resolution. The stakes are such, Madam Minister of Labour, that we hope to see the translation of this text into a bill to be considered as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u28	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u29	Work co-produces the world, transforms people, changes humanity. It is the engine of a civilizing process. That is why what we do with the work is essential. It is work that creates wealth, it is work that meets needs, it is work that invents the future. But while work is at the heart of the process of humanization, the one that emancipates, it is also, counter-employment, the object of the tendencies of "decivilization", those that damage the human and the planet. So talking about work is basically about the human. It's about those who work, bodies, souls, people, societies. It is to wonder what we are using it for, to refuse that it is only a means, and to refuse, in the same way, that it be its own end. Because it is the work through which we are in the human world, it is the work that binds us and, because the workers' movement has dealt with it, it is the work that creates rights. Thus, to act for health at work is not simply to mention the ramps to be installed on the stairs, it is not to be established as a provider of benefits to employers; It is interested in what becomes of the human in the work. It is tending towards work that provides health and well-being. Now, because work involves the human person, because the human person gives himself in the work or because he is taken into his constraints, he is not without effects, without consequences, without damage. How can we talk about labor, not to mention capital? How can we not see this intense contradiction that structures the social relationships by which work is instrumentalized in the service of the accumulation of wealth by some? How can we ignore that the human person in his work is caught up in the face of profitability, competitiveness? How can we forget the question of the wage that makes it possible to live, well or less well? How can we leave aside the decisive question of the organisation of work, of the dispersal of trades, of the absence of democracy in work? How do I evacuate the question of meaning? To claim to act for health at work without rising to this level of questioning and analysis is to be content with cosmetics. I am thinking of the workers in the steel industry, of these subcontractors in scaphandres in furnaces; to these aides-careers running the rooms and beds in the middle of the viruses; to these digital engineers locked in impossible objectives; to these teachers too often reduced to a technical function; to these robbers, their noses in our waste, in the silent dawn; to these peasants from here, strangled by indecent prices, and to those who come from elsewhere, who are made to sleep in stables; to these cashiers with stiffened arms and on the back in a compote. I think of work in its broadest horizons, without ever forgetting its most concrete dimension, at the workplace. That is the meaning of the bill that I have tabled, the content of which is partly the result of the work of the Committee of Inquiry into Occupational Diseases and Pathologies in Industry, which you have kindly quoted in the explanatory memorandum to your motion for a resolution, Mrs Lecocq. This bill is based mainly on the experience of the world of work in the Gulf of Fos and on the surroundings of the Berre pond: it seeks to create a cadastre of occupational diseases in order to combat diseases that can be eliminated. In fact, from the beginning of the legislature, the tone has been set: the CHSCTs have been removed by ordinances, and you have abruptly caused the whole device designed to take care of the human at work to fall down from one floor. No, occupational health has not been the priority! Recognition of occupational risks was one of the first targets of the majority. Chemical and psychosocial risks are not being addressed at the right level. Social security is being reformatted liberally and, in the sad debate on pensions, there has been a resurgence of a decomplexed vision denying once again the penitibility of work, which is presented in a blindly angelic light. Finally, occupational health has been neglected in the management of the health crisis and, at the recovery stage, the obsession with "working and producing more", which had already been one of the factors behind pension reform and many other opportunities, has been revived. Doesn't the prescribed work occupy enough space in lives, in minds, in bodies? Is it necessary to accelerate the waltz at a thousand times of the couple of old lovers, productivism-consumerism? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We must act for health at work, for work and jobs, for human beings. Yes, we must empower ourselves. What is the status of the evolution of the tables of occupational diseases? It's not going any further. What about the independence of occupational health services and the role of CARSAT, pension and occupational health insurance funds? There needs to be a great debate – and even a great movement. "The worker, the employee, the technician, the engineer, the researcher do not want to be programmed under the dictation. They have knowledge, ideas, imagination," wrote Roland Gori, Bernard Lubat and Charles Silvestre in the Manifesto des oeuvres. They talk about returning to mutual respect for the people who work – back to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u30	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u31	The period we have just gone through has revealed many fractures between the French who work: while 44% of managers have resorted to telework, only 3% of workers have had access to telework. Many professions have forced our admiration; I am thinking of those who were on the front line – healthcare staff, liberal nurses, paramedics – of course, but also those on the second line: road drivers, cashiers, garbagemen... All these people have not ceased their activity; On the contrary, they carried France during this period, without being protected as they should have been. However, occupational health is a priority, particularly in order to ensure the recovery of economic activity in a sustainable and sound manner. Several studies have shown the decisive role of workplace contacts in the transmission of the virus. The workers most affected by the epidemic are those who have been least protected, who have not had access to hydro-alcoholic gel or gloves, and who have not benefited from a demanding health protocol. These same studies reveal that more than half of the contaminated individuals were likely in their workplace. Unfortunately, despite the mobilization of occupational health actors, occupational health services could not have had the effectiveness that should have been theirs in such a critical period of health. The current occupational health system dates back to 1946: it probably has to evolve in order to adapt to new ways of working, such as telework, to improve in terms of prevention, to ensure better care, especially for people with chronic diseases. Too often, our occupational health service rhymes, in the minds of employers – I am thinking in particular of SMEs and TPEs – with constraints and sanctions. However, companies, the same SMEs and TPEs, provide the necessary funds for the proper functioning of occupational medicine. It should not be perceived as punitive; It must accompany the head of the company, its employees, as well as the agents. This motion for a resolution is in fact an admission of failure. It illustrates the failure of the Government's and its predecessors' health policy. The Government has, in any case, shrewd by its absence during the recent period, while it is responsible for the health of citizens, and first of all for those who had to rise every morning during the period of confinement. Your government, the Minister of Labour, has been unable to provide masks in time and time to all those who have continued to carry out their mission and travel daily to their workplace. Your government, Madam, also has a very great responsibility in the conflicting injunctions regarding wearing the mask. By the very admission of the signatories of this text, the companies found themselves isolated and distraught: they were often left behind by the Government, which had not anticipated anything and left them alone – especially those who did not have the means and personnel dedicated to the sanitary accompaniment of their employees. I am thinking in particular of SMEs and TPEs who have not been able to provide themselves with masks and tests. Unfortunately this motion for a resolution is an umpteenth pious wish of the majority, and a new artifice of the Government to divert attention from its calamitous management of the health crisis. By trying to take the lead in occupational medicine, you are once again trying to absolve yourself of your responsibilities by designating third parties as responsible for the situation. You have failed, you have failed your duties, you have not protected the French – and you do not assume it. You are more concerned about the adjustment of ministers' criminal responsibility, and your first steps have been to provide companies with the opportunity to reduce wages and simultaneously increase working time. This is obviously not our vision of things. This historic health crisis should, on the contrary, be an opportunity for profound change – but this is the new world, the "after world" you are preparing. The first stage of well-being at work would be the concrete recognition of the nation to all those who have been on the front line. Why did you deprive the paramedics, the liberal nurses and so many other professions of the exceptional bonus of 1500 euros, while the paramedics are exposed just as much as the hospital caregivers? The Liberal nurses did not have a bonus when, during the period, nothing had been planned for them, which they deplored. They went to the fire alone, without masks and gloves. I called all the Liberal nurses in my constituency:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u32	They must have been delighted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u33	...I can tell you that they were very brave. What about the premiums still expected in the public sector, as well as in the private sector, for which you should also act? If, in the context of the crisis, occupational medicine deserves a reform aimed at simplifying and strengthening prevention through the professional world, in consultation with the social partners, it is indeed the State, which guarantees occupational health safety, that has failed in its task of directing policy. Unfortunately, your motion for a resolution is hollow. She's empty, she's poor, she's breaking open doors; It is not at the level of our expectations. The French who work, especially those who suffer in their work, deserve better – they deserve a real negotiation. We shall abstain in the vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u34	The general discussion is closed. The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u35	Let me thank the Group of the Republic on the move, as well as the groups of the Democratic and Related Movement and take action together, for placing this motion for a resolution on the agenda of the National Assembly. I am very happy about this, especially since it is a subject that I am particularly interested in and on which I have been working for years. I am thinking in particular of my collaboration, in 2010, with Henri Lachmann, then Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schneider Electric, and Christian Larose, who was Secretary-General of the Textile-Clothing-leather Federation of the CGT and Vice-President of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, as part of our report on well-being and health at work. In my previous life, I also launched Dan'Cares, the world's first social protection and health insurance system created by an international company for all its employees. This initiative was followed by more than 300 other international companies, and it was welcomed and encouraged by the ILO, the International Labour Organization. Also at the international level, following the speech of the President of the Republic at the ILO headquarters on 11 June 2019, I am working on the establishment, at the initiative of France, of a global social protection fund to provide health coverage to the entire population of each country. It is known that today almost half of the world's population has no health coverage. This initiative is supported by the G7 Social, which I had the honour of chairing, by the world social partners, both trade unions and employers, by the European Commission and, now, by the ILO, the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – and the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Apart from the fact that it allows me to share this experience with you, I look forward to being here for two reasons. Firstly, because the ambitious proposal you are putting forward is the result of extensive work and a long-standing commitment by Members Charlotte Lecocq, Carole Grandjean and Cendra Motin, whom I would like to pay special tribute to. Many of you have recalled this: this motion for a resolution is part of the continuity of high-quality parliamentary work – I am thinking in particular of the report by Messrs. Julien Borowczyk and Pierre Dharréville, as well as the Senate report by Stéphane Artano and Pascale Gruny. Secondly, the consideration of this motion for a resolution comes at a particularly opportune time, whether it is the health context or the commitment, a few days ago, of negotiations by the social partners. That is why, Mr Viry, Mr Favennec Becot, I am surprised and sorry for your abstention. This motion for a resolution calling for France to become one of the best performing countries in the field of occupational health enables the entire national representation to be in perfect harmony, at this moment, with the aspirations of our fellow citizens. This is the primary role of the legislator, its very essence; This resolution makes it particularly palpable, and I thank you for that. In different ways, in your interventions, you have basically asked the same question: how can workers avoid being exposed, in the performance of their duties, to a risk to their health, in this case to the risk of contamination by a previously unknown virus? There should be no need to choose between emancipation through work and the protection of workers' health. For, yes, as soon as the risks of spreading covid-19 were known, this fundamental question arose, in our minds and in our actions, with unprecedented acuity and omnipresence – I weigh my words since for almost three months, we held a telephone meeting with the social partners twice a week, and the topic of occupational health was at the heart of all these twenty meetings. This question has arisen both for the Government and for parliamentarians engaged on the subject. In your ridings, it has been the case of business leaders, employees themselves and trade union organisations. In capillary fashion, this challenge has imposed itself on society as a whole, thus revealing the power of this human, economic and social bond, which is the primary force of our country. Yes, work is the primary force; and if we have been able to go through this unprecedented period, it is thanks to the continuation of the work of many employees, whether they are caregivers and paramedics or second-line employees. They have allowed all our compatriots to remain confined and protected for weeks. By providing the most important services for the economic and social continuity of the country, they enabled us to maintain. The health crisis has therefore revived the crucial issue of safeguarding the safety and health of workers – of all workers. Occupational health has become a social issue, not a matter for experts. Everyone has felt and now feels concerned: on this point, there is a difference between four months ago and today. Moreover, the need to protect the health of employees has hardly disappeared with the lifting of confinement. It obviously continues to prevail today, with the prospect of the greatest possible resumption of activity, while the virus is still circulating, albeit in a reduced manner. Contrary to what Messrs. Alain David and Pierre Dharréville, the 50,000 social and economic committees created since 2018 have fully played their part in implementing health guides and, today, to reflect on the conditions for the return to work without endangering employees. We see here the relevance of the comprehensive approach already adopted in other countries more advanced than we do in terms of prevention and health at work. In order to define the plans for the resumption of activity, it is necessary both to change the organisation and the timetable of the work and to adjust the gestures of barriers; However, all of these issues were dealt with by different bodies, there was no place in the company where a systemic vision could be adopted. This merger is now being carried out, and it is a good thing. In the previous months, as you know, exceptional measures have been taken by the Government to help companies protect employees and limit the spread of the virus. We have developed and disseminated general guidelines, as well as more than 90 trade guides, which allow for the adaptation of barriers to different professions and thus protect the health of employees. These guides are the result of the remarkable work of the Directorate-General for Labour, which is part of my ministry – I salute the agents who have given themselves body and soul – the health authorities, as well as the professional branches and social partners who have co-developed and validated them. I welcome the coordination work carried out by Secretary of State Laurent Pietraszewski, as part of his mission to me. I would also like to thank all those who, on these benches, relayed the expectations of the actors in their constituencies with regard to these guides and their real-time adaptation. In addition, State services have been mobilised to support businesses and monitor the implementation of protection measures. Your interventions show that we share the following observation: the recent period has continued to exacerbate the tension between, on the one hand, the reinforced imperative of ensuring the protection of employees' health and safety in their work and, on the other hand, the reality of the field. It has been measured to what extent it is sometimes difficult for actors – companies and employees – to find the right protection measures and to benefit from adequate services throughout the territory to provide it. I am talking about a stronger imperative, because the protection of employees has, as you know, long been a priority of our action. I said this: for work to be and truly remain a vector of emancipation for all – it is our vision of work – it must not alter the health or safety of those who exercise it. That is why we view occupational health as an issue of social progress, an issue of humanity and collective efficiency. Your motion for a resolution shows the complexity of the current system, based on a set of more or less precise obligations to be borne by the company, with various actors responsible for accompanying, monitoring or advising companies on this matter. Some regretted that, during the crisis of the covid -19, occupational health services were insufficiently present – with happy exceptions. This system has been criticized by some employers, in particular SMEs, or by employees. The period we have just gone through will have to be analysed very soon in order to better identify the successes and failures of this system, particularly when faced with an exceptional situation. Even before this epidemic, we faced new challenges in preserving health at work. I see four of them. Firstly, issues related to technological developments, which present both risks and opportunities for the health and safety of workers: on the risk side, I am thinking in particular of the evolution of chemical risks and the work on platforms; on the opportunity side, telemedicine, which can allow for wider coverage, especially in rural areas. Secondly, issues related to the demographic revolution, the ageing of the population and the lengthening of working life, as well as the need to take into account the situation of the most vulnerable – illness or disability – in the world of work, as Mrs Charlotte Lecocq and Sophie Auconie pointed out. Thirdly, economic challenges, which in recent years have profoundly changed the organization of work, particularly in the context of relations between contractors and subcontractors, directly affecting the health of workers. Finally, the fourth round of issues, mentioned by Mme Michèle de Vaucouleurs and Charlotte Lecocq, as well as by Mme. Guillaume Chiche and Paul Christophe: issues related to governance; the recruitment, training, development and improvement of careers of occupational health services; and the arrangements for cooperation with city medicine, which are more than perfectable. These issues have changed the concept of worker protection. And, like you, the actors now agree that there is a need to significantly improve health at work – this augurs well for the day when there will be a text to be debated! – and to establish a sustainable, daily culture of prevention that combines economic performance with the protection of employees. In order to accelerate the operational translation of this priority, we wanted, as early as 2018, to give a new dynamic to move our health system at work towards more effective prevention. To explore the directions to be taken in this area, the Prime Minister entrusted you, Ms.Lecocq, and Bruno Dupuis and Henri Forest, with a mission in January 2018. After a long and important consultation, the report "Health at Work: Towards a Simplified System for Enhanced Prevention", which you submitted in August 2018, made several proposals to implement these principles through a redesign of the structure of health actors at work. These ambitious proposals have been submitted to the social partners, within the framework of the Working Conditions Guidance Council, for discussion and proposals for development or negotiation. Unfortunately, this work could not be completed in this forum. Nevertheless, at the end of 2019, at the end of this first work, trade union and employer organisations representing at inter-professional level announced that they would like to open negotiations on the subject of occupational health. Following the recent events – we agreed on the difficulty of organising it in this context – this negotiation had to be postponed, but it finally opened officially on 15 June. On 13 June, I sent the negotiators a guidance document outlining the main objectives of this negotiation, in accordance with the legislative rules. Three areas are clearly identified: better protecting the safety and health of workers and promoting their retention in employment throughout the life course; More effectively support businesses, regardless of their size, sector of activity and environment, to adopt prevention measures tailored to their own risks – all employees must be covered, including in EPRs, which is not always the case, and prevention must be the key word; improving the effectiveness of health governance at work, serving the general objective of improving prevention, for the benefit of employers and employees. We fully share these objectives – this is reflected in the speeches you have just made in this House. The motion for a resolution that you are presenting today is very clearly promoting them. I am thinking in particular of paragraph 12, which expresses your intention to legislate, as well as paragraph 13, which recalls your threefold ambition: to make occupational health, in particular occupational risk prevention, a priority of public policies in the coming years; ensure that all workers have timely and high-quality access to health services at work; strengthen the means of access and retention in employment of the most vulnerable workers. I know and share your commitment to social dialogue at all levels. In the area of occupational health, as I have just mentioned, the time for social democracy is now open and must be respected. Without anticipating the outcome of the ongoing negotiations, we know that the contribution of employers' and employees' representatives will be very useful, if not indispensable, in order to carry out an ambitious and effective reform on the ground, which parliamentary democracy will enrich, in a second stage – as soon as possible – before giving it its legislative translation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Agir ens groups]] With this in mind, which this motion for a resolution allows us to reaffirm, I confirm the Government's intention to accompany you in your work on an ambitious reform in the field of occupational health, more than ever at the heart of the concerns of our citizens. That is why the Government fully supports the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u36	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u37	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the proposal for a law by Mr Daniel Labaronne and several of his colleagues on the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts (No 2782, 3112).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u38	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I will only call for the amendments and the articles to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u39	Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor to support Amendment No. 14, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u40	First of all, I would like to say that Mr Labaronne's proposal for a law solves a problem encountered by many of our fellow citizens: the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts. Those who are victims of this phenomenon have paid insurance premiums, sometimes throughout their lives, and cannot benefit from acquired rights. This bill is strongly supported by the "La République en marche" group because it is part of its political philosophy: ensuring the effectiveness of rights and combating non-recourse. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the purpose of the bill while maintaining its objective: it is simply to clarify that this new service to the beneficiaries of a retirement savings contract will be integrated into the online service providing the right to pension information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u41	Mr Daniel Labaronne, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u42	This amendment, which is intended to replace the concept of an individual situation statement with that of information on retirement savings products, is of particular interest. The individual status report is a tool specific to the mandatory scheme. It might therefore be useful to create another tool for supplementary pension insurance products, which are extremely diverse in terms of their liquidation and payments. The committee has not considered this amendment, but I am very much in favour of it personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u43	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor to give the Government's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u44	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u45	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u46	The purpose of this amendment is, for the sake of clarity and legibility, to refer directly to the obligations imposed on managers in the relevant codes; In addition, these could be subject to checks by the competent authorities. The amendment of the insurance code would thus allow insurance undertakings, supplementary occupational pension bodies and pension institutions and unions to be covered under Article L. 932-23 of the Social Security Code. The amendment of the Mutuality Code would cover mutuals and unions, and that of the Monetary and Financial Code, credit institutions and investment firms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u47	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u48	This amendment tends to include the obligation for managers of supplementary retirement savings products to transmit information in the relevant codes rather than in the part of the social security code dealing with the public interest grouping – IPG – Retirement Union. If it does not introduce substantive changes, it provides clarification while improving the readability of the text and preserving the consistency of the various sectoral codes. This amendment has not been discussed in committee, but I personally support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u49	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u50	This Government amendment, which is a continuation of the bill, gives me the opportunity to express some bitterness and regret. Indeed, the proposed law only aims to strengthen the information, without attacking the stock of disinherited contracts, to those EUR 13 billion that are not paid to the beneficiaries. Of course, everyone can try to find solutions to increase information and ensure that beneficiaries can recover that money and thus increase their purchasing power, but, as I have had the opportunity to tell you in committee, Mr rapporteur, I think it would be useful to tackle the existing stock and not just to provide for new information. I would have liked the Government to propose a mechanism to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u51	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u52	The Government's amendment – and, more generally, Article 1 – provides for the creation of a "trusted third" through the IPTF. I therefore note that we come to the same conclusions regarding the role of the latter, since, following numerous hearings and proposals made to me at the time, I had proposed, through an amendment to the bill that I had tabled on the subject, a similar provision. I am therefore pleased that it is unanimous, less than six months after my bill was deemed premature. However, in response to what my colleague has just said, I wonder: if this provision will limit the emergence of new cases of unliquidated contracts, will it be enough to solve the stock issue effectively? While not coordinated with others, the proposed scheme has several weaknesses, particularly if the information held by insurers is severely degraded, which is the case after several decades when insurance companies merged, consolidated their files and changed computer systems. During the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, technologies have evolved significantly and files are very degraded. There is therefore a risk that the IPTF will not find the trace of beneficiaries or beneficiaries. In addition, people who have not reached retirement age do not necessarily consult the website info-retirement.fr. How could a beneficiary obtain the information on this site if he or she does not have access to the deceased beneficiary's supplementary pension insurance account? In short, the problem of an approach based exclusively on the action of the rightholders is that it implies that they are aware of the existence of the platform and of the information on it. In the following article, my colleague Labaronne planned a public communication campaign. I hope that we are not creating another Ciclade, because this service dedicated to the search for life insurance contracts and inactive bank accounts is far from having achieved the desired result. I regret to note that the issue of old stocks – which are the focus of most of the disinherited contracts – is not addressed at all. While the health crisis has greatly complicated the economic and social context and, in some territories, disturbing movements, we must send the right signals to the population. It is important to return to the French this money which belongs to them, especially since it does not cost the state a cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u53	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u54	That people who have signed up to a contract cannot assert their rights is obviously a problem – especially since it sometimes affects small savers. There is therefore no reason not to strengthen the right to information. However, we have criticized these pension schemes a lot, because we believe that they are not reliable, nor even sound from an economic and social point of view. The difficulties you are pointing out are inherent in a pension system which cannot function properly and which produces social incoherence, on which you yourself point out. Perhaps it would have been wiser to go beyond this right to information and, for example, to prohibit compulsory savings plans for collective retirement – PERCO. Some of these funds are dormant because people, forced to subscribe, eventually forgot that they had done so. If the right to information is a good thing, this text prompts us to ask ourselves about the mandatory nature of these devices, or even to go beyond them – but that is another subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u55	I call Mr Dominique Da Silva to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u56	This amendment, which may be able to respond to certain objections raised by Mr Auconie, seeks, in the event that the information available to the insurer leads to the identification of several potential insured persons, to notify each of them of the existence of the contract so that they can take steps to verify the identity of the beneficial owner of the contract. It is also a way to prevent disinherence by alerting insured persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u57	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u58	This amendment is really interesting: in case of homosexuality, the people concerned could go to the website info-retirement.fr and discover that they may have an additional pension insurance contract. Moreover, the amendment is balanced because it does not impose disproportionate constraints on the retired IPTF. In response to previous interventions, I would point out that the sole purpose of this bill is to improve the right to information for savers, particularly pensioners. Dear colleague Auconia, this text is part of a completely different philosophy than the one underlying your proposal for a law on the disinherence of supplementary pensions. You wanted to strengthen the obligations of insurers and other managers of this type of product, in particular banks, by extending their access to public files – by the way, I doubt that these provisions would have been in line with the requirements of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, the CNIL, and the general regulation on data protection, the GDPR, in the field of personal data protection. That's not the case here at all. I would also like to point out that the IPTF is not intended to find the beneficiaries; his job is to make information available on the website info-retirement.fr. It is up to the beneficiaries to connect to the site and to become aware of their rights with regard to the basic pension, the supplementary pension and, soon, thanks to this bill, the supplementary pension. We are therefore opposed to the substance, and perhaps also to the method. I do not believe that this type of problem, relating to the right to information, can be solved through an amendment, because of the legal difficulties and all the precautions that must be taken to ensure that this right can be exercised within a stable legal framework and with ad hoc funding. My proposal for a law, prepared in consultation, provides for this. Turning to Amendment No 19, which has not been discussed by the committee, I am in favour of this in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u59	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u60	The proposed law, which the Government supports, specifies how the information is made available to the holders of the supplementary pension contracts in disenfranchisement in the event of difficulties in the reconciliation of data. The amendment makes an important and useful contribution to the implementation of this service and will improve the data of managers. If I give a wisdom opinion about it, it is that the proposed solution can be provided for in the framework of the convention and the implementation of the service – I am committed to it. The provision has no normative value and does not require a legislative provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u61	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u62	I believe, of course, that the bill and the amendment must be supported, but they represent only a possible approach to the management of contracts in disenfranchisement, which will, if it is not to reduce the number of contracts in disenfranchisement today, at least avoid the disenfranchisement of contracts in the future. You are constantly talking about the EUR 13 billion you are going to return to the French, rapporteur, but this will not be the case: limited to information, your approach is not accompanied by an offensive approach to the search of beneficiaries and beneficiaries; It will therefore not reduce the stock of old contracts in disinherence. In addition, access to information on these disenfranchised contracts requires a digital connection. As you know, in your constituency as well as in mine, and as in many others, not everyone has access to the Internet, either because the territory does not yet have optimal digital coverage – certainly this should improve over time – or because the people directly concerned, i.e. the elderly, do not know how to use or have no access to digital tools, and therefore they will not be able to search for this information. I think your approach is excellent, and I will support the amendment, but I think that mine is complementary: depriving us of one or the other would lead to a lame device...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u63	Thank you, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u64	...and ineffective in combating the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u65	The rapporteur, Mr Daniel Labaronne, has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u66	This amendment is intended to delete paragraph 9 of Article 1. I am very committed to the idea that insurers should not be made more obliged to search for rightholders by allowing them access to public files. Access to the national register for the identification of natural persons is therefore a sensitive issue. That is why I would like to delete paragraph 9, which provides for the possibility for managers of retirement savings products to collect and keep the registration number in the national register of natural persons, the NIR, of holders of supplementary retirement contracts. Although we did not consider it necessary in the original version of the text, this deletion is justified by the fact that the arrangements for collecting and preserving the NIR are already regulated by the provisions of Law No 78-17 of 6 January 1978 on computer science, files and freedoms. In my opinion, a good law is not talkative. Paragraph 9 introduces a provision in the proposed law that is not indispensable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u67	What is the Government's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u68	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u69	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u70	The aim of this amendment is to do everything possible to make the search for beneficiaries and beneficiaries of disinherited retirement savings contracts more effective. I repeat: your approach focuses on informing policyholders, beneficiaries and beneficiaries; My job is to hand over to the managers of insurance companies and banks. Let's remember: the amount of outstanding funds in distress amounts to 13 billion euros, of which only 3% are returned to the French by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, the CDC. That is to say how much it is necessary to give priority to a more effective approach! The nominative social declaration, the DSN, is a monthly file produced from the payroll and intended to communicate the information necessary for the management of the social protection of employees to the bodies and administrations concerned, allowing to replace all periodic or event declarations. Every month, a company must report to the government services what it pays to each employee – wages and accessories. It therefore does not seem useful to focus on current contracts, since the administration now has a file containing all the information related to salary. On the other hand, because this information was previously annual and, before being computerized, recorded by hand, we must absolutely act on the old contracts, those of the 1960s and 1970s: these are the contracts that mainly feed the stock in disinherence. I don't understand that you're not convinced of it yourself. They are the ones who matter to the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u71	Mrs Auconia, I would ask you to respect the two-minute speaking time from now on. What is the committee's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u72	There is obviously a stumbling block there. You are calling for a proactive experimental scheme to be put in place to actively seek beneficiaries of the stocks in order to return the capital if the IPTF is unable to find the beneficiaries. However, the retired IPTF does not have this mission! Why do you want to give him a responsibility that the texts don't give him?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u73	We're here to change them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u74	The GIP Union retraite is solely responsible for informing the beneficiaries through the info-retirement.fr platform. We had already discussed this during the examination of the text in committee, because you had tabled a similar amendment. The committee has not considered the new wording, but I would ask you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, I'd be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u76	With regard to the tasks entrusted to the retired IPTF, the amendment defends a philosophy that is not ours. We're making a different choice than yours, Mrs. Auconia. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u77	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u78	I think this is an excellent amendment: the purpose of the law is precisely to create rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u79	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u80	In 2014, the law on inactive bank accounts and life insurance contracts in disinherence, known as the Eckert law, created new rights for citizens and beneficiaries, which your bill is now seeking to better inform. I understood that the majority were in favour of experiments. However, the amendment by our colleague Sophie Auconia proposes a very modest and highly supervised experimental scheme, which simply aims to go beyond the minimum level of information. You mentioned the info-retirement.fr platform – which is the subject of several amendments: at the right time, but informing is not always enough! We also need to detect, search. This is precisely what the amendment proposes, by encouraging operators, controlled by regulation, to carry out research on a voluntary basis in the interest of the beneficiaries, who would thus recover the funds intended for them. This amendment is of moderate scope and allows for a step forward. In addition, it makes the proposed law a text that creates rights. Personally, I will support him without a state of soul!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u81	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u82	The subject of annual social declarations and nominative social declaration is well known, Mrs. Auconia. Regrettably, there is still a lack of information in these files, in particular on supplementary pensions and provident contracts. The actors are not always well connected to these files and many data are still stored manually. I understand your goal – we all want the files to be better connected to each other – but we must not ask for the impossible. As far as disinherited contracts are concerned, you are right to point out that at the time of the generalisation of supplementary pensions, in the 1970s, companies largely adhered to the so-called Article 83 contracts. As a result of these massive changes, a significant number of people have regained their contract and now enjoy their rights. I would also like to point out that employers have their employees join the supplementary pension contract and that the contributions appear on the payroll.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u83	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u84	Of course I do, Mrs. Auconia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u85	Depends on who it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u86	The beneficiaries can therefore find them, of course with the help of the companies. The information given to them on the.fr info-retirement platform will help them to better link the supplementary pension contracts to the data they have collected in the documents of the deceased.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u87	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u88	In order to be located in the various information files, it is necessary to take the means to do so. The amendment aims, in the event of a unsuccessful connection between the managers' files and those of the retired IPTF, to make use, in an experimental context, of bodies specialised in the disclosure of succession. Without proactive action – it is on this point that our positions diverge – from insurers and public authorities, the stock in need will remain high. You know that! I'm glad to see you're moving in my direction, Mrs. Motin. We need to improve the conditions for access to information with regard to current and future contracts, which, as you pointed out, are still unsatisfactory; But if it is today, what was it in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s? You say that the supplementary pension contributions appear on the payroll, but I'll show you the payroll that I received when I was 25 and that I was working at Auguste Thouard, a company that no longer exists. I joined an additional pension contract without knowing what insurance I was contributing to. It turns out that the said company has merged with another and no longer exists. So I don't know who to turn to. Because I'm well informed, I'm going to connect to the.fr info-retirement platform, but people who are in the same situation as me and who are less well informed will find it difficult to identify companies that have received their supplementary pension contributions. That's the reality, I assure you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Auconia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u90	That is why an offensive and effective action for the benefit of the beneficiaries and the beneficiaries is essential if the 13 billion euros outstanding in stock are to be returned to them. Unfortunately, your bill does not impose it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u91	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u92	A right has already been created, Mrs. Auconia,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u93	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u94	... since asset managers have the responsibility to search for rightholders. The reality is therefore quite different from the image you give of it. I would add that this right is under the control of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the CPRA. Let's not mislead national representation: when someone doesn't find the information they're looking for, maybe it's not because they're not looking for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u95	The 13 billion euros in stock show that this is not effective!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u96	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u97	I could hear your arguments and abound in your sense, Madam Secretary of State, if the current regulations were effective and if we did not have an outstanding stock of EUR 13 billion, despite the rights acquired through the Eckert Act of June 2014 and other arrangements. This stock exists well, and this bill will not help return it to the French, because they will not seek the information that will be proposed to them. Amendment No 5 aims to improve the information provided to managers so that they are aware of the results of the research carried out by the retired IPTF and can continue their efforts if no beneficiary or entitled person has been identified. I would like to point out that while the IPTF intervention will allow the existing files to be crossed and the degraded files to be enriched, it will not make it possible to find all beneficiaries and beneficiaries. Managers should therefore, in some cases, be asked to continue their research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u98	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u99	Again, I think there is an incomprehension. The Secretary of State has just recalled that the mission of the IPTF Union pension is to inform. You feel, Ms. Auconia, that if her approach to information is unsuccessful, he must turn to managers to ask them to fulfill their obligations. However, the obligations of the managers remain: they will not be exempt because we will have transferred information that the latter will then make available to the beneficiaries on the info-retirement platform.fr! The existing system is supervised by supervisors and controlled by the CPRA, and this bill is not intended to relieve the managing bodies of their duty to search for rights holders. In addition, the IPTF is not intended to contact the managers of supplementary pension insurance contracts to inform them that someone has shown up with them or to invite them, in the absence of an identified beneficiary, to continue their search for rights holders. It doesn't work that way. The committee did not consider this amendment. On the other hand, it had rejected a similar amendment. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u101	I want to react to the amount of EUR 13 billion, which has been mentioned several times with great assurance. Let's go back to the facts: in its report to Parliament presented in 2018, the CPRA states that unliquidated pension savings contracts – which do not necessarily lose their bearer – held by people over 65 years of age amount to €5.4 billion. By referring to people over the age of 70, this amount falls to €1.8 billion. It is therefore possible to assume, which seems to me to be firmly supported, that the amount of EUR 1.8 billion constitutes a maximum, since pensioners are free to choose, over the years, whether or not to liquidate their contracts – that is their strictest right. It is therefore not a question of returning to the French the 13 billion euros they have placed; the amount is probably around 2 billion euros – again this is a high estimate. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u102	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u103	I hear your arguments and repeat that your approach is complementary to the one I had adopted when I defended my bill on the disinherence of supplementary pensions last January. We have a major difference: while you want to give the information to the insured, I want to extend the scope of the managers. The Eckert Act requires them to search for beneficiaries and beneficiaries of supplementary pension contracts, by all means at their disposal – what they do. Since many files are very degraded, managers transfer to the IPTF the files for which they have not found beneficiaries or entitled. The IPTF then acts on these files by crossing them with those available to it, which allows to find some rightholders. What to do for others? Our role is to vote the law. If we find that the current regulation is not effective, we must draw the consequences. However, whatever the amount, the stock of stock in need exists – I will not engage in a battle of numbers. What do we do with it? Should we leave it to the IPTF to retire until the insured person's one hundred and thirtieth birthday? The proposed text seems to me to be insufficiently ambitious in this area. It should be entitled "Proposal for a law for the information of insured persons" rather than "Proposal for a law on the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u104	I call Mr Dominique Da Silva to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u105	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the funding arrangements for the scheme, by providing that the cost of developing, operating and advertising the new service will be borne by pension savings product managers – which is quite normal – by referring to an agreement with the retired IPTF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u106	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u107	This is indeed a clarification amendment. In general, the amendments proposed by Mr Da Silva are interesting, because they specify and frame the provisions of the text. The amendment, which does not call into question the substance of Article 1, seems to me useful, if not necessary. If it has not been examined by the committee, I am in favour of it in my personal capacity. I would like to thank the person responsible for the text for the Republic on the move for all these very relevant amendments, which, in addition to clarifying and clarifying the text, give it greater legibility and legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u108	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u109	It aims to clarify the list of managing bodies involved in the obligation to transfer information on retirement savings contracts to the Pension Union IPTF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u111	This is again a clarification amendment, which makes it possible to increase the legal scope of the text. The committee has not considered it, but I personally express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u112	Mr Dominique Da Silva, in support of Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u113	This clarification amendment is in line with the proposals made by Mr Labaronne, who rightly believes that insurers must bear the cost of the new service provided to insured persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u114	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u115	The purpose of this precision amendment is to secure the newly created device. The provision you are proposing may fall under the constitutive agreement of the IPTF Union pension, but including it in the law provides useful security. The amendment has not been discussed by the committee, but I am in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u116	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u117	It aims to clarify the obligations for information transfers and their control procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u118	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u119	The purpose of this clarification amendment is to secure the system by including information transfer obligations in the codes governing the sectors concerned, in line with amendment No 11 previously adopted. It has not been examined by the committee, but I am in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u120	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u121	This amendment also seeks to improve the information of employees by rewriting Article 3. In order to allow an employee leaving his company to keep the information on all savings contracts to which the employer has subscribed on his behalf, the rapporteur proposed to include them in the receipt for balance of any account. This legally enforceable document provides an inventory of all amounts owed by the employer to an employee. It seems to me that the wage savings booklet, which unfortunately remains too little used by the human resources services of companies and which deserves to be promoted, would be a good tool to inform employees not only about their supplementary pension contracts known as Article 83, Article 39 or Article 82 – all this having been simplified by the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises, the PACTE law, which creates the pension savings plan, the PER – but also about their rights in terms of liquidation. Too many employees are unaware of the conditions under which they may leave an enterprise savings plan or a business-to-business savings plan, or that the management costs associated with the retention of such a scheme, such as a retirement savings plan or an article 83 or 82 contract, are borne by them when they leave the enterprise. They must be informed of this. The wage savings booklet seems to me to be a better support for this than the receipt for balance of any account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u123	The amendment completely rewrites Article 3. I am in no way concerned, as I could do, because it brings a very useful clarification to the original wording, which has perhaps been insufficiently worked on. I am very much in favour of the amendment, even if the committee has not considered it. I would also point out that the text has been the subject of a real consensus and very broad consultation. This work, which I think is useful, seems to me to be representative of what the legislative process should be. Between the discussions in the committee and the public discussion, the text was significantly added and necessary to secure the mechanism. I am very pleased that we can have this debate and make these improvements to the original text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u124	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u125	It extends the scope of the Supervisory and Resolution Authority's verification of the mission to combat the phenomenon of disinherence carried out by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. The scheme allows the CPRA to monitor, under the Eckert Act, compliance with the time limit for the transfer of funds to the State and the obligation to publicise the information of savers which falls within the scope of the Caisse des dépôts. It also provides for the submission, each year, of a report to inform Parliament and describe the evolution of the stock held by the Caisse des dépôts and its actions to inform savers, in particular the existence of the Ciclade portal. This amendment is based on the February 2017 information report on the application of the Eckert law, written by Marie-Christine Dalloz and our former colleague Alain Fauré. They noted that the Eckert Act did not include in the missions entrusted to the CPRA the monitoring of compliance with the time limit for the transfer of funds to the State and of the obligation to publicise the information of savers. This omission needs to be addressed. Indeed, if the idea is that beneficiaries should be actively publicised, then the institutions must be equally active in defining sufficient means of publicity to inform citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u127	The amendment provides that CPRA shall ensure compliance with the provisions applicable to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations concerning the time limits for the transfer of funds in disenfranchisement arising from life insurance contracts or inactive bank accounts, and shall also entrust it with the task of monitoring compliance with the Fund's obligation to ensure the disclosure of the identity of the holders of the accounts and contracts. In addition, he asked for a report to be submitted to Parliament. With regard to the second provision, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations is already required to submit an annual report to Parliament on the monitoring and management of the sums it holds. Your amendment is therefore in part satisfied. With regard to the first measure, the provisions of the PACTE Act and the corresponding implementing decrees have strengthened the control by the ACPR over the activities of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. In addition, the Fund is already subject to numerous publicity obligations regarding its disinherited savings management activities. Parliament also has oversight in the Supervisory Committee, since three of our colleagues are members of the Supervisory Committee. Therefore, the measures you are proposing do not seem appropriate to me. This amendment was not considered by the committee; in my personal capacity I ask for his withdrawal, otherwise my opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u129	I would first like to return to Article 4, which provides that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations initiates an experiment aimed at entrusting the search for the beneficiaries of the outstanding supplementary retirement contracts in disinherence to voluntary bodies specializing in the revelation of succession, such as genealogists. This article was the subject of debate: the legislator did not entrust the Caisse des dépôts with this task, but only to ensure that the identity of the account holders was properly publicized. We share the objective of getting the beneficiaries of the sums recorded at the Caisse des dépôts, but we propose to rework the item during the shuttle. Indeed, I would like to point out that delegating an active research mission to third parties raises sensitive issues, such as the disclosure of personal information that can be covered by professional secrecy without the consent of the beneficiaries. There is also the question of the conditions under which these benefits will be paid. So I'm making an invitation to work. In addition, and I look forward to the next amendment, as I undertook, the Government has begun work with the Caisse des dépôts to improve the visibility of the Ciclade portal. This is not a legislative area, but it is essential that this portal be known and accessible to be useful and used. To return to the amendment, I would ask for the withdrawal, because Article 15 of the Eckert Act already provides for the annual publication by the Caisse des dépôts of the information requested on its activity in the fight against disinherence and the submission of a report to Parliament. It therefore does not appear necessary to provide for new provisions to this effect. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u130	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u131	[[Ms. Cendra Motin makes a sign of denial]] I hear your proposal and thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for showing that our common objective is to improve the arrangements. Indeed, the figures on outstanding refunds placed at the Caisse des dépôts show that they remain limited; In total, they represented 143.2 million at the end of November 2018, representing less than 3 % of the amounts deposited by banks and insurance companies, according to the Court of Auditors' 2018 report. Like me, you and the rapporteur can only measure the progress that remains to be made. It is a money due to those who have contributed, that is to say the French, and who remain unduly on the account of insurance companies and banks carrying out an insurance activity! If, Mrs Motin, it is a reality: it is money from the contributions of a lifetime, and we must give ourselves the means to return it to those to whom it belongs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u132	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u133	It provides for the preparation of an annual report by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, sent at their request to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority and to the Minister of the Economy. The idea is to establish a follow-up, through the CPRA and the policy, through the Minister responsible for the economy, the number, stock and evolution of disinherited contracts held by the Caisse des dépôts. The aim is to assess the mechanism resulting from the Eckert law, whether it requires improvements or whether it works perfectly and that the funds are returned to the French. I would remind you that we must legislate, apply, control and correct: let us look at this together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u135	I fully agree with you on the need for Parliament to be well informed, to better legislate and to better control. However, section 15 of the Eckert Act of 2014 already provides for the submission of a report on these matters: it does not seem to me necessary to adopt a provision that already exists. As the amendment has not been discussed in committee, I personally request that it be withdrawn, since it is satisfied. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u137	I have gone a little fast and I have confused Amendments Nos 9 and 10, and I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u138	I saw, it's okay.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u139	Amendment No 10 was indeed satisfied, since article 15 of the Eckert Act provided for information. As for No. 9, he was also satisfied, since the proposed provisions were already provided for by the CPRA. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u140	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u141	If it were effective, there would be no remaining stock in disinherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u142	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u143	The aim is to organise a wide-ranging communication campaign around the Ciclade website. The latter had 1.5 million connections in the year of its launch, thanks to such a campaign, but only 352000 visits the following year, due to the lack of communication. I do not understand the position of the Government and the majority. I'm sure most of you don't know that you have access to the Ciclade file. However, it would allow you or your family – parents, stepparents, grandparents... – to find bank accounts or insurance accounts in disinherence. I myself found an account that I didn't know existed on this platform. Why not imagine an advertising campaign, as we do for the 3919, listening number on domestic violence, or other state actions carried out with great reinforcements of public communication? This site is essential to publicize disinherited contracts, whether bank, insurance or supplementary retirement contracts. Thanks to him, French people can search for the information that concerns them. I would find it a pity that you do not approve of this communication campaign, which could be financed, under an agreement, by the insurance account managers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u145	The amendment aims to carry out a communication campaign about the Ciclade site. I grant you that the site may not be sufficiently known: that is why I have provided in Article 2 of the bill for a communication action led by the retired IPTF. Nevertheless, I find it difficult to follow you when you want contract managers to finance a communication action that falls within the competence of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations on a platform for which they are not responsible and which they do not administer. I do not see how private organizations could fund, guide and implement a public institution information platform. In addition, I am hampered by the lack of consultation with the actors. You say the insurers have to pay. Of course, they will pay for the transfer of information to the retired IPTF, but there has been consultation! Managers agreed to this measure of the proposed legislation because we discussed it in the Financial Sector Advisory Committee. I believe that such a measure should at least be discussed with the actors who will be asked to sign a cheque to finance an institutional communication. One can think about it, one can consult, but for the two reasons I have given, the role given to private actors in the action of a public institution and the lack of consultation, such a decision seems to me to be very premature at this stage. The committee has not considered this amendment, but I am against it personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u147	We are working with the Caisse des dépôts to ensure communication on this issue. This is not a matter of a legislative nature. The opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u148	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u149	I would have liked to have welcomed Mrs Auconia's willingness to move forward. He was told that this was an institutional communication and therefore private funding was not needed. This would not be the first time that private actors have financed public tools. A fortiori, this institutional communication is made necessary by the private deficit, because it is the job of the insurers to liquidate what they owe to the beneficiaries. Your argument is therefore not admissible, and in any case does not convince me. The whole philosophy of your bill is based on massified information, on communication – hence our bitterness, because we would have preferred it to go further. In this case, we propose to climb by one step, without a stock exchange untied for the public sector since it would be the responsibility of the financiers and insurers. It's not much, and it doesn't upset the philosophy or the economy of your text! The Ciclade platform is unknown; that the insurers put in the pot to make it known seems to me to be a good provision because they are the ones who have to pay the fees. This amendment deserves to be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u150	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u151	[[Ms. Sereine Mauborgne applauds]] Mr rapporteur, your analysis of my amendment is not fair. It is not a question of asking banks or insurance companies to deal with the disclosure of the Caisse des dépôts. We know as you do that this is not possible. On the other hand, we are not unaware of the relationship between the insurance managers and the CDC, since they give them their files. So why not change the law and try to create a common pot not to lead, but to finance a communication campaign? It is of course the CDC and the State departments that must launch the communication operation, because it is their responsibility to communicate to the French as best as possible so that they can recover the sums owed to them. But that the operation is financed by the insurance managers seems obvious to me, because it is their responsibility to find the beneficiaries and the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u152	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u153	It is an amendment of withdrawal. I propose that the Government submit to Parliament a report on the return to the French of additional pension funds in need, which will allow the effectiveness of the law to be measured one year after its promulgation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u155	Mrs Auconia, we have set a maximum period of 18 months for the entry into force of the provisions of the text, so that the IPTF and the managers can comply with their new obligations. As a result, a report submitted one year after the enactment of the Act would probably not measure its impact. As the committee has not examined your amendment, I personally suggest that you withdraw it. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u157	We propose to entrust the analysis of the effectiveness of the law, in a collegial and independent framework, to the Financial Sector Advisory Committee, in the continuity of its work on the subject. It will monitor and evaluate the effects of the text. I therefore invite Mrs Auconie to withdraw her amendment, and the Government is committed to forwarding the CCSF report to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u158	Mrs Sophie Auconia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u159	I believe that we have not been able to make our action against the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts effective. Because your approach is extremely interesting, I will vote for the bill, but it seems to me to be very incomplete. It is not acceptable to continue to have to wait for a person's one hundred and thirtieth birthday for restitution. According to Talleyrand, "who does not have the means of his ambitions has all the worries." The Government would benefit from taking strong action to return as many stocks as possible to the French: this exemplary exercise of transparency would give the purchasing power, in the context we know, a boost that would not cost it a cent. Such an issue would have justified further work on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u160	I would remind you that the examination of the text is part of the simplified procedure. There will therefore be no explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u161	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u162	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u163	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u164	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Yaël Braun-Pivet and several of her colleagues introducing security measures against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence (No. 2754, 3116).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u165	I call Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairperson and Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u166	We experience "more than a worry, a real fear," when it comes to "the dozens of people who are going out of prison, who are very dangerous and whose convictions are absolute. They are the priority threat today. These words are those of Jean-François Ricard, prosecutor of the counter-terrorism Republic. This is shared by all the actors involved. They tell us the urgency of taking action to better protect the French. With this bill, we act, we respond to the urgency, we protect. My conviction is that, in order to be effective, a law must be concrete. It must meet the expectations of our fellow citizens and this response must be intelligible and in accordance with our right. The text that we are going to consider addresses these four challenges. The text is indeed concrete, both in its object and in its genesis. People convicted of terrorist acts will be released from prison. Some are still very dangerous. However, we do not have all the necessary tools to follow up on them. The risk is not theoretical. Too many attacks have been committed on our soil, even in our prisons, in Osny or Condé-sur-Sarthe. The issue of prison leavers is emblematic of the evolution of the increasingly endogenous threat. Raphaël Gauvain and I built this text from the ground, from in-depth contacts with anti-terrorist professionals. It is based on the monitoring work carried out within the parliamentary delegation to intelligence, the monitoring mission of the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism – SILT – and, of course, the law commission. It is therefore logical that a similar approach has led my Senate counterpart, Philippe Bas, to table a text that pursues the same objectives, and that the actors concerned support our proposal. At the end of this work, it became clear that the many existing preventive and repressive instruments are either inapplicable or insufficient. Enrolment in the automated national judicial register of perpetrators of terrorist offences carries only reporting obligations. Socio-judicial follow-up only concerns acts committed after 2016; Moreover, it is not pronounced in criminal matters. Judicial supervision applies only during the period of the reduction credit, reductions which cannot be granted to terrorist convicts. The security detention system has been developed for sexual crimes and has never been used in a terrorist case. Individual control and surveillance measures – MICAS – are limited in time, while, according to the Director of the Directorate-General for Internal Security, the profile of certain terrorist detainees requires long-term follow-up. Our legislation is therefore marked by an undeniable legal vacuum, which is not enough to fill by enhanced surveillance of the persons concerned by the intelligence services. We know the expectations of our fellow citizens, who are going to the field soon after leaving this House. The French ask the state to protect them, and that is normal: security is the foundation of the social contract. If a threat exists, it must be taken into account. If there is a legal vacuum, it must be filled. To do this, I propose intelligible measures. The single article of this bill has a very limited purpose: to give the judicial authority the possibility, when it finds that persons convicted of terrorism present, at the end of their sentence, objective signs of danger, to impose specific constraints on them. The text must now be completed. We did everything we could. The Government, and I thank it, has initiated the accelerated procedure, and the President of the Republic has placed this text on the agenda of the special session of the Parliament. As far as the legal certainty of the text is concerned, we have always known that we are taking a leading line, seeking a balance between the protection of public order and the guarantee of fundamental rights. This justified the fact that the Council of State was consulted by the President of our Assembly to confirm, as an essential question, that the arrangements provided for fell well into the category of security measures and not into the category of penalties, and that, therefore, they could also be implemented for persons already convicted. The Council of State replied in the affirmative to this two-fold question. It was an indispensable prerequisite. In committee, we have taken the road marked by the Council of State, taking back its recommendations. There has been a legitimate debate about placement under electronic surveillance. We have reworked the system, leading to a solution that seems to me to be balanced and effective. We will give the judge the opportunity to pronounce it, while preserving an obligation to score, which is so essential. In so doing, these measures seem to me to be in line with the requirements of the Constitutional Council in that they are adapted, necessary and proportionate to the objectives pursued. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The fight against terrorism is collective. It requires the mobilization of the judiciary, security forces, intelligence services and political leaders. With this bill, our majority takes responsibility. I trust that our assembly will be at the meeting today for the security of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u167	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u168	The bill that your House is considering today is of a particularly sensitive nature, as the Chair of the Law Commission has indicated. It aims to address the problem of persons convicted of terrorist acts, many of whom appear to be potentially dangerous even as their sentences end. First of all, I would like to recall some factual facts: 262 people are currently detained in France after being convicted of terrorist offences. While the quantum of sentence is high and some are sentenced to life imprisonment or very heavy sentences, others are serving a few years' correctional sentences, usually of seven to ten years' duration, for many after 2012. In addition to these convicted detainees, 182 persons are in pre-trial detention after being charged with terrorist acts. They will be tried in the coming months or years: as you may know, forty-nine terrorist trials will take place by 2021 at the judicial court or at the Paris Court of Appeal, which have exclusive jurisdiction over the matter. Of the convicted, 31 will be released in 2020, 62 in 2021 and 50 in 2022, after serving their sentence. In 2016, Parliament adopted a system that drastically limits the measures for the adjustment of sentences available to persons convicted of terrorist acts. The laws of June 3 and July 21, 2016, effectively removed the penalty reduction credits for terrorists, thereby restricting their access to parole. These measures were in response to the fear that radicalised and potentially dangerous individuals would be released as France faced the most horrific series of terrorist actions that struck it – as the Chair of the Law Committee said at the moment, what our fellow citizens expect from the state is above all their protection. If these 2016 laws were therefore in response to a legitimate fear, they have only repelled, or even reinforced, the difficulty. Indeed, the detainees whose release from prison it has made impossible to arrange are now preparing to leave detention on a "dry-out" basis, according to the agreed expression. I wanted to make this brief reminder because it summarizes our challenge: to provide a criminal response to terrorism. Since 1986, France has chosen a centralized system that has become more complex and away from the common law as the terrorist threat evolves and hits its territory. This response has resulted in an increase in the number of exemptions specific to the investigation, either in the judgement phase or, as we have just seen, in the execution of sentences. This framework, which I wanted to complete by proposing last year that you create a specialised independent prosecutor's office, the national anti-terrorist prosecutor's office, has proved its effectiveness. We can be pleased to have one of the most comprehensive counter-terrorism mechanisms in the world. In its normative work, the legislator has always sought to articulate the specificity of complex crime, the purpose of which is the collapse of our societal model, and our values. It is by keeping in mind this pressing need for balance that you will have to address this evening's debates. Important work is being done in our prisons to prevent the radicalization of prisoners and to curb harmful proselytism. The radicalisation of persons in the hands of justice has recently been the subject of several reports by both national representatives and independent administrative authorities. I am thinking in particular of the information report by Members Éric Diard and Éric Poulliat on public services in the face of radicalisation, which includes proposals to strengthen the follow-up of radicalised people,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u169	Very good report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u170	...but also to the report of the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty on the treatment of radicalised persons in prison and respect for fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u171	He doesn't say the same thing at all! Laxity on all floors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u172	These reports have received my full attention and the services of my Ministry are working to improve, with respect for fundamental freedoms, both the assessment and the care of persons convicted of acts of terrorism or showing signs of radicalization. However, the release of convicted prisoners, who are still potentially radicalized despite the work done, requires specific measures. It is our duty to do everything possible to ensure the safety of our citizens. The Government has already done so within the framework of the SILT Act of 30 October 2017, which opened the possibility of subjecting these persons to an individual administrative control and supervision measure. But the duration of these administrative measures, limited to one year, as the Chair of the Law Commission has pointed out, may seem insufficient. The creation of a judicial framework for the supervision of convicted persons is also more consistent with the overall arrangements we call for. However, the intention to subject persons who have served their sentences to a new judicial regime restricting their freedom must be given the utmost vigilance. Indeed, there can be no question of introducing – or suggesting that we are prepared to introduce – any form of predictive justice, which is the very negation of the idea of justice, since it amounts to condemning for a long time on the basis of mere suspicion, de facto denying any right to rehabilitation. Respect for our values requires that the regime applicable to terrorists does not turn into a maze whose outcome would be illusory. Let us ensure that the measures we are developing do not put them into their misanthropy more than allow them to be reintegrated, which must remain our objective, a fortiori when they have not committed a crime of blood. The work carried out by the Chair of the Law Committee and the MP Raphaël Gauvain, who relies on a highly substantiated opinion of the Council of State, has produced a balance solution that combines effective measures and objectivity, a reasonable time limit and the control of the judge. This essential balance seems to me to have to be preserved. The single article of the proposed law thus provides for the introduction into the Code of Criminal Procedure of provisions allowing the judge to impose on persons convicted of terrorist acts who have served their sentence of imprisonment security measures, which must not be confused with a penalty. Penalties and security measures differ essentially in their purposes. While the main purpose of the penalties is to punish the offender, the security measures, such as those proposed here, are aimed exclusively at protecting society against the danger of certain individuals. The Committee on the Laws of this House has considerably enriched the original text by taking into account, in particular, the opinion delivered by the Council of State on 11 June, which, of course, satisfies me. However, I would like to focus on two particular points of the text adopted in committee: the mobile electronic bracelet...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u173	He's gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u174	... and the obligation of health and psychological care. The Commission has removed the possibility of using mobile electronic surveillance – PSEM.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u175	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u176	A number of amendments are now proposing that this be re-established.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u177	They're going to be accepted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u178	The PSEM, which amounts to a permanent electronic follow-up of a person, is undoubtedly a particularly restrictive measure of freedom. To provide such a measure for an individual who has already served his or her sentence seems disproportionate to me, regardless of the duration envisaged. That is why I was only able to welcome the abolition by the Committee on Laws, which is part of the balance sought between the constitutional objective of protecting public order and respect for the rights and freedoms recognized by the Constitution. I would also add that the perpetrator of the attack on Saint-Étienne-du-Rouvray was wearing a bracelet. This dramatic fact, of course, cannot in itself call into question this method of control...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u179	Necessary, but not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u180	...but it is a lure to consider it as an ideal prevention solution. Therefore, I do not believe that the input of the measure is sufficient to justify the violation of our principles. I have no doubt that the debates in your House will be on this important point and that your House will be able to find the necessary balance by legislating on such a sensitive subject. The Commission also added to the text the possibility of forcing the person to "respect the conditions of health, social, educational or psychological care, designed to enable his reintegration and the acquisition of the values of citizenship". This addition is welcome in that it will guide those concerned towards taking charge of one of the PAIRS structures – an individualised social reaffiliation support platform – already deployed in Paris, Lyon, Marseille and Lille. These structures, composed of specialized educators, cultural referents, psychologists and psychiatrists, allow a global and individual accompaniment towards the disengagement of violent ideology, by identifying the factors that led to such a shift and the points of rupture. The stated purpose is that of reintegration and is in line with my wishes. In the end, the text adopted by the committee seems to me to be balanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u181	It's empty!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u182	He's been emptied of his substance!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u183	This balance should be maintained. As the Council of State points out in its opinion of 11 June, "all the mechanisms for combating terrorism and its recurrence are the result of a great complexity linked to their number, to their sometimes very different inspirations, to the cumulation of requirements which they allow, sometimes identical, sometimes neighbouring, without the differences being always explained, under the responsibility of different judicial or administrative authorities. This superimposition of measures that can be applied for the same purposes, for the same people, beyond a certain threshold, exposes the creation of new devices – even justified for good reasons – to a risk of fragility. » [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] It is therefore now essential to carry out an evaluation of the mechanisms for preventing terrorist recidivism as a whole – it will probably be the next work that I would like to undertake and which should bring us together. The current complexity may affect the effectiveness of the State's action. I believe that it is necessary to propose that the existing arrangements should be recast so that the current stacking can be made more coherent and that the legibility of our right can be guaranteed. It is at the cost of such an evaluation that the State's action will be fully effective, meaningful and coherent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u184	In the general debate, Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u185	What's the point of prison? In the almost general view, it performs four functions: to neutralize dangerous offenders, to prevent victims from doing justice themselves, and to deter and reintegrate them. Others before me recalled, in the context of this bill, the intangible principle of non bis in idem: no one can be prosecuted again or punished criminally on the basis of the same facts. The legislators we are, attached to the rule of law that distinguishes civilization from barbarism, find themselves facing this real challenge: more than a hundred prisoners, convicted of terrorism, will have served their sentences within two years, and some from this year. We know, in the opinion of many magistrates, that many will not come out deradicalized. Our responsibility as legislator is therefore to seek the right balance: to set the necessary measures to prevent recidivism – since we are faced with dry exits – and to protect our fellow citizens while respecting the Constitution and our fundamental freedoms, without yielding anything from the rule of law when our enemies, they, carry out without any other form of trial. This is the peak line to which Raphaël Gauvain rightly referred in the commission of laws. Madam rapporteur and chairman of the committee, I know that you have shown dialogue and listening. Many justice actors had seen the original version of the text as a risk of unconstitutionality. The Council of State had itself pointed to the risk of "interference" and "confusion" between the penalties and the security measures introduced in the text. We therefore welcome a balanced text, based on the work of the committee and the amendments adopted during its work, including those of our group, defended by Paula Forteza. We would like to welcome the introduction of security measures, which we believe are more proportionate. Yes, the recidivism rate is too high in France, but the average period of recidivism is fifteen months for offences and seven years for crimes: it seems to me that it was good to introduce more proportionate periods of security measures. We would also like to welcome the adoption of the amendment on the provisions relating to the use of mobile electronic surveillance, which had caused concern to the Council of State. It should be recalled that many recidivism specialists agree that regular scoring is the most effective. Finally, we welcome, of course, the addition of a paragraph on the necessary health, social, educational or psychological care to enable the reintegration and acquisition of the values of citizenship. Of course, there will be remarks about the naivety of believing in the possible reintegration of terrorists. Yet it is the strength of our values that we believe that any condemned person who has served his or her sentence can find a new way, even if we are of course aware that not everyone will find this path. The deradicalization project in prison remains in front of us. The report by Adeline Hazan, Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation of Liberty, confirmed this. It is obviously a long-term task, but European initiatives show us that it can bear fruit if there is a strong political will in the long term – I am referring to Germany, Denmark and the United Kingdom. We must recall the meaning of the sentence: neutralization of course, deterrence, reintegration as often as possible, alongside the necessary security measures. In view of the progress made in committee, the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will be careful to ensure that the progress made is kept in session. If this is the case, aware of the urgency of adopting appropriate arrangements, it will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u186	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u187	The climate of post-covid deconfinement-19 would almost make us forget the permanent danger, linked to terrorism, which is hovering over our country. The facts are simple: forty-three individuals currently serving a prison sentence for terrorism are expected to be released this year and present a real risk of recurrence. Yet, still today, there is a legal gap for the post-penalty period, especially since the previous legislature has removed the possibility of adjusting sentences and reductions of sentences, which does not allow for follow-up by the persons concerned. I would like to thank the Chair of the Committee on Laws for taking up this subject, despite a topicality which might suggest that this is not a priority. That's one of them. We must provide a proportionate response, on the one hand to ensure the safety of our citizens and public order, and, at the same time, not to betray the identity of our country, the respect for fundamental rights. However, we note a dangerous phenomenon: galloping legislative inflation, which is a source of complexity and therefore additional errors. That is what the Council of State stressed in its report. The debates in the Law Commission have been rich and have responded to many of the recommendations of the Council of State. This is particularly true of the jurisdiction given to the regional security detention courts, rather than to the enforcement court. Because the proposals in this text are security measures and not penalties. That is the whole issue of retroactivity: the purpose of this bill is to sanction and enforce these measures, even for events that occurred before the legislation was passed. Security measures have a simple objective: to prevent danger, not to punish behaviour, as do penalties. The work in the Law Commission has also, alas, removed one of the most effective provisions: mobile electronic supervision. This is all the more regrettable because, in its opinion, the Council of State had not sanctioned this mechanism. Recall the decision of the Constitutional Council of 8 December 2005, which stated that placing under mobile electronic surveillance was not a penalty, but rather a security measure. The Action Together Group considers that the other devices, such as the maximum score three times a week, are insufficient to achieve the target set. Let's give us the tool for placing under mobile electronic surveillance; Let us give this tool to the judicial actors, who will assess the danger of the individual and apply the device or not. The Group of the European People's Party will be able to vote on this bill only in the event of the reintroduction of mobile electronic supervision. Churchill said: "Critical criticism may be unpleasant, but it is necessary. It is like pain for the human body: it draws attention to what is wrong. » [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group and on some benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We have confidence in the debates in this House tonight and perhaps tomorrow, in order to bring about a truly ambitious and protective law for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u188	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u189	No doubt more than no other, terrorism is a subject that requires deep reflection by the legislator, kept at a good distance from the tumult that sometimes holds in parliamentary life. For everyone knows, alas, that despite the tremendous work done by our intelligence services and our police and judicial officers, our country can be struck at any moment. I know, as a parliamentarian of the city of Saint-Denis, what are the heavy tributes paid by the nation and the victims of these heinous acts, and I am firmly convinced that national representation must carry this fight to arm-the-body. But this fight against terrorism must not be carried out under any circumstances. As such, I regret that our discussion is being held in the context of a bill, which by definition does not contain an impact assessment. If the opinion of the Council of State has been useful in enlightening our Assembly, it cannot be enough to guarantee acceptable conditions for consideration, for a subject which must attract the full attention and vigilance of the representatives of the people we are. The fight against terrorism must be an object of concord and in no way a parenthesis in an overloaded parliamentary calendar. I turn to the substance of the text, which also presents several difficulties. Its effectiveness, first of all: the proposed scheme will not concern former ordinary prisoners who have become radicalised in prison. But prison is now a focal point for radicalization, and we have every difficulty in designing relevant indicators that could objectiveize this phenomenon. In this field, France is rich in innumerable multidisciplinary intellectual productions, all of which indicate that the state of prisons is inadequate and that the public authorities are willing to deploy effective policies of deradicalization. Should we not therefore launch a public debate or even parliamentary work on the successes and failures of our policies in this area – which, until now, have largely failed? By bypassing the issue of radicalization in prison, yet central, the bill before us does not allow us to have this discussion. Unfortunately, there is much to bet that we will have to come back to it, in circumstances that I hope are less dramatic than those we have seen in recent years. Second difficulty of the text: in reality, the majority acted according to a logic of inverted mirrors. It is no longer a question of preventing the risk of terrorism and of providing penalties compatible with our vision of republican justice, but only of ensuring a relative calmness by means of drastic security measures. While there is no doubt that individuals such as Salah Abdeslam and other terrorists guilty of the worst atrocities committed on our soil do not deserve the honors of humanist thought, it is our republican duty to ensure that the founding principles of our democracy – the very principles that these terrorists want to challenge – remain respected, and that we do not give an ounce of ground to these individuals who are hostile to our model of society. Mireille Delmas-Marty, professor emeritus at the Collège de France, said nothing else about this bill when she deplored a profound change in the conception of law, which has continued since the introduction of security detention in 2008 and which has experienced phases of acceleration after each attack. "This concept of potential danger that appears in the explanatory memorandum," she says, "is worrying: one moves from punitive justice to predictive justice." As early as 2013, the iconic Marc Trévidic, a former anti-terrorist judge, indicated that additional resources should be constantly given to the preventive function of counter-terrorism justice, in line with the increasing number of threats. We share this observation: here is the key to our success in this fight. [[Pierre Dharréville and George Pau-Langevin applaud]] Basically, if we understand and agree with the rapporteur's objectives, we differ as to how this can be achieved. In order to be effective, the fight against terrorism must be carried out within the major legal services of the State and be entirely focused on intelligence, prevention and the enforcement of penalties commensurate with the threat. That is why we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u190	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u191	In the next three years, 150 to 200 people sentenced in the early 2010s for terrorist acts – mostly aborted attempts to leave the theatres of operations in Iraq and Syria or to return – will be released from French prisons. Currently monitored by the intelligence services in prison, they still present extremely worrying profiles. The paradox is that these people, who were convicted of acts of terrorism before 2016, are excluded from all the mechanisms accompanying them to leave prison: in judicial jargon, they are called "dry exits". They are found out overnight, without any support or obligation, even though they should be the subject of specific accompanying and monitoring measures. The purpose of our bill is to put an end to this paradox and to fill this gap in our law by introducing measures to accompany and monitor terrorists after they leave prison. In the current state of the law, the only measures that can be taken by the Minister of the Interior are the MICAS introduced by the SILT Act. However, as the Minister pointed out, this mechanism is limited. On the one hand, it only provides for surveillance measures, not accompanying measures. Above all, it is limited in time: in theory, it is valid for one year, but in reality six months. Thanks to this bill, it will now be up to the judge, after judicial debate and in accordance with the adversarial debate, to choose from among a battery of measures, the mere declaration of address to the pointage in a police station. We are on a leading line in terms of public freedoms: we apply restrictive measures of freedom to persons who have already been convicted and served their sentences – or have already paid their debt, as we understand it in the judicial jargon. Constitutional jurisprudence in this area is very strict: it recognizes the possibility of taking these so-called security measures against a person whose conduct is of a certain degree of seriousness. However, the Constitutional Council is verifying the need, and even the opportunity, according to some commentators. If the Council considers these security measures too strict and restrictive and treats them as a new criminal penalty, then the mechanism we propose will run the risk of being declared unconstitutional. It will certainly be the red thread of tonight's debates. Your opinion on this matter, Madam Minister – because you are the keeper of the seals, the Minister of Law – will be extremely valuable to us. It is in order to respect this balance and pass the constitutionality test that we lightened the mechanism in committee, following in this many of the recommendations of the Council of State. It is also because we are concerned about the constitutional imperative that we have removed in committee the possibility of ordering the wearing of a bracelet. The debate continued at the end of the committee's work, including in our moving Republic Group, and we decided to reintroduce the mechanism. An amendment will be tabled to that effect. It is not a matter of a simple recovery, but of allowing the bracelet to be worn with the relief of the scoring constraints – with three points per week. This balanced and operational arrangement will be able to satisfy both intelligence services and those subject to security measures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let's not fool ourselves, colleagues. For some, we will never do enough and all this is useless; For others, we are doing too much, and all this is no more useful. Members of the LaREM group are convinced that our bill is a real step forward because it provides an operational and balanced response to the terrorist threat. Our group intends to defend it forcefully and collectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u192	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u193	Nearly 530 people are detained in prison for committing terrorist offences in connection with the Islamist movement. Of these, 153 are to be released in the next three years: 42 from this year, 64 from 2021 and 47 from the following year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u194	It's too much!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u195	Of these 153 persons, 11 were convicted of terrorist crimes. In the face of these alarming figures, the Republicans had approached the committee's consideration of this bill with a favourable view: although in many respects the text did not go far enough, it nevertheless took the right direction. It was therefore a great surprise that, during the debate in committee, you yourself emptied your own bill from its substance. For example, you have reduced the maximum time limit for security measures to five or ten years instead of ten or twenty, as provided in the original text. You also removed the provision on the electronic bracelet while its application was already subject to the consent of the person concerned! This great retreat has everything from last minute arrangement with a group partner of the majority. Otherwise, how could Members of your group have been surprised by this reversal in the vote in committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u196	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u197	The fight against terrorism and radicalisation, ladies and gentlemen, is not an issue on which political arrangements and compromises can be made. This is a serious subject on which the French expect strong actions, in line with the threat to society and which far exceeds partisan divisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u198	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u199	Obviously, you did not measure the seriousness of the situation. We can no longer afford to wait for the next attack on our soil to take the necessary action. I hope you will come together in the face of the reality of the threat and the horror of the facts. I solemnly invite you to come back to what you have done in committee. As it stands, can this bill prevent new horror scenes? No, no more than no other law. Together, however, we can improve this text to make it as effective as possible while respecting public freedoms. For this to happen, it is essential to extend the measures that we are going to discuss to radicalised ordinary prisoners. There are in prisons between 1000 – according to the administration – and 1700 – according to the unions – ordinary prisoners suspected of radicalization, the famous DCSR. In addition, the phenomenon is being examined in the assessment districts of radicalisation. If, as a result of this assessment, it is shown that the radicalization of these detainees poses serious threats of change, then it will be necessary to impose security measures on them as well. The Council of State has made this clear: radicalization in prison is a documented fact. Far from appeasing violence among prisoners, the prison is an incubator of radicalization. Thus, ordinary prisoners who were radicalised in prison became terrorists: Mohammed Merah, Cherif Chekatt, Michaël Chiolo, Mehdi Nemmouche.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u200	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u201	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why it is imperative to take the issue of radicalization in prison together and to take the opportunity of this bill to incorporate measures that have been necessary for us for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u203	Indeed, it must be given its full effectiveness by integrating security detention, created by the Act of 25 February 2008 for the most dangerous sexual and criminal offenders. The Constitutional Council has declared its compliance with the Constitution. It is now necessary to extend this system to prisoners convicted of terrorist offences. François Molins said this: we run the major risk of seeing people who will not be repented and who, on the contrary, will be more dangerous at the end of their sentence being released from prison. In London on November 29, a man killed two people in a stabbing attack. He was sentenced in 2012 to 16 years in prison before being released in 2018 and placed under electronic bracelet – which did not prevent him from taking action. The threat posed by terrorist detainees is real, recognized and still present, as the bombing in Reading, near London, just two days ago reminds us. It is our duty to take the necessary measures; security detention is one of them. [[Smile on the benches of the GDR group]] I have noticed, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you have been particularly careful in committee. I even thought you were very afraid of taking measures that could be retaliated by the Constitutional Council. You did not exercise the same caution when passing the Avia Act, which the Council largely censored.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u204	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u205	[[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr Meyer Habib also applauds]] Is the fight against online hatred worth taking more risks than the fight against terrorism, the victims of which unfortunately continue to accumulate? I leave you alone, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that the debate will lead to a positive development of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u206	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u207	Terrorism is a constant threat to democratic societies, and our country, tragically bereaved on several occasions in recent years, must constantly fight against further attacks. Reading's knife attack in Britain is the last sad example. We have had to respond to this threat with new devices and the SILT law has made it possible to break out of the state of emergency while securing our means of protection. The threat remains present, and today we are concerned about a new risk: to date, more than 500 people are being detained for terrorist acts in connection with the Islamist movement and about 150 of them are expected to be released within the next three years. Eleven have been convicted of terrorist crimes, while the others have been convicted of the offence of association of terrorist criminals, which is aimed at participation in a formed group or in an agreement established for the preparation of an act of terrorism. The forthcoming release of these people has highlighted the shortcomings of our preventive arsenal, because, with the exception of individual administrative control and surveillance measures, which constitute an administrative follow-up, we lack a judicial system to track these potentially dangerous individuals to their release. The purpose of the bill is precisely to fill this gap. It creates a mechanism that would apply mainly to persons convicted of acts committed before 3 June 2016, when a socio-judicial follow-up was created for the perpetrators of terrorist offences. It could also apply to convicted persons after that date in criminal matters, as judges rarely impose additional sentences in such cases. The proposed law establishes an ad hoc security regime applicable to the perpetrators of terrorist offences upon their release from detention. Given the sensitivity of the text, it was wise to refer the matter to the Council of State for its opinion: we thank you, the rapporteur, for having done so, especially since the opinion given is particularly detailed and interesting. The Law Commission has done an important work of legal security of the text, based on the recommendations of the Council of State. In particular, it entrusted the jurisdiction of the regional court for the detention of security in Paris and authorized the prosecutor of the counter-terrorism Republic to order requisitions. This centralization of cases is particularly desirable in the area of terrorism. We also welcome the efforts made to further characterize the concept of danger, which is necessarily difficult to understand. Our work in committee has also provided a variety of procedural guarantees that are highly desirable. Before coming to a crucial point, I would like to reiterate that the MODEM Group is fully aware of the threat that is emerging and supports the aim of the text, namely to fill a gap and to follow up on dangerous persons convicted of terrorist acts upon their release from detention. Mr Diard, no arrangements or small compromises with fundamental rights and the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u208	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u209	We're asking to see!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u210	The effectiveness of this text depends on its legal certainty and therefore on the constitutionality of its provisions. The latest decisions of the Constitutional Council call for caution. As such, we wanted to remove from the list of security measures applicable to mobile electronic surveillance, because of its particularly restrictive nature for freedoms, which is more like a punitive rather than a preventive measure, which raises the risk of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u211	That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u212	The amendment to abolish the measure was adopted with the rapporteur's favourable opinion, which we welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u213	Courage, let's run!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u214	However, we know that this deletion is a matter of debate and that amendments will propose that this provision be reinstated.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u215	Luckily!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u216	We will maintain our position against placing under electronic surveillance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u217	They're terrorists!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u218	No mercy on these people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u219	No mercy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u220	Our position on the bill will therefore depend on what will be passed. The text is based on a peak line, as the rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u221	[[Laughter of Mr Maxime Minot]] Like the Avia Law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u222	The balance between prevention and punishment depends on the immediate applicability of the device. It seems to us that the fact of subjecting a person who has served his sentence in full to mobile electronic surveillance for several years causes the measure to shift to the punitive side. For this reason, the MODEM Group will support the bill only if, and only if, mobile electronic surveillance is not restored, due to the constitutional risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u223	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u224	We are meeting to discuss a bill tabled by the Chair of the Law Commission to introduce security measures against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence. Since the attacks of January and November 2015, we have been living with a form of fear and anguish, bearing in mind the barbaric monster of terrorism, which causes so much devastation. Despite a series of laws and legislation to combat the phenomenon, we know that the threat remains ubiquitous. The Socialist and related group understands the fear of our fellow citizens. The upcoming release of persons convicted of terrorist offences prompts us to take appropriate and effective measures. The bill therefore addresses a very serious issue. However, it intervenes in an area where multiple measures are already planned, and entrusted to different authorities, resulting in an impression of redundancy and sluggishness. [[Smile of the rapporteur]] In its opinion, the Council of State alerts us: the mechanisms for combating terrorism and its recurrence are complex, numerous and drawn from different sources. It considers that the effectiveness of public action is threatened and recommends an evaluation of the preventive mechanisms applicable to terrorism, in order to "improve the coherence of all the mechanisms, their proper articulation with each other and, consequently, their effectiveness, while facilitating the necessary developments and strengthening the balance between the prevention of breaches of public order and respect for the rights and freedoms recognized by the Constitution". This to be found in the 17 pages with many round trips that the opinion counts... Recall that following the attacks in January 2015, the legislator had created, by the law of 24 July 2015 on intelligence, an automated national judicial file of the perpetrators of terrorist offences. The purpose of the roster was to subject these persons to security measures that required them to report regularly to police stations or gendarmerie so that law enforcement could locate them, monitor developments in their activities and ensure that they did not pose a too obvious risk of recidivism. The law of 3 June 2016 strengthening the fight against organised crime, terrorism and their financing, and improving the effectiveness and guarantees of criminal procedure, has made the social and judicial monitoring system applicable to persons convicted of terrorist offences. However, this is a supplementary penalty, which can only be applied to persons convicted after June 2016. However, most of the detainees who will be released shortly do not fall into this category. In addition, security measures were needed to urgently address the issue of the follow-up of these detainees, as the MICAS issued under the Act of 30 October 2017 will expire at the end of 2020. In short, there is a difficulty to resolve. But in a democratic society, all subjects must be dealt with, whatever their nature, respecting the fundamental principles. However, it seems to us that the introduction of a post-sentence sentence runs counter to the fundamental principle of non-retroactivity. I understand the distinction between punishment and security measures, but the current wording of some measures shows that this distinction is somewhat blurred, since the provisions can be considered either. Madam rapporteur, your measures are transitional and will only apply until the criminal system for social and judicial monitoring is fully in place. That is why we are taking advantage of this legislative vehicle to propose amendments aimed at strengthening socio-judicial monitoring, in particular by making it almost systematic. This mechanism, which meets the constitutional requirements of non-retroactivity of criminal law, must be strengthened. We also request that the Government submit to Parliament a progress report containing the number of security measures issued, the modalities chosen, their effectiveness and their cost. This assessment will allow us to assess the relevance of the devices before completing them. The amendments made to the text by the Law Committee, such as the removal of mobile electronic surveillance, have surprised us with regard to the logic that you are defending. However, this law remains dangerous for the fundamental principles of law, including those of legality, non-retroactivity of criminal law and non-cumulative prosecution and punishment. We have tabled amendments aimed at improving it, but, still sceptical about what will happen to them, we will certainly choose, as you will understand, to abstain on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u225	Mr Meyer Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u226	On 18 February, I was already asking the Government a question about the threat of jihadists leaving prison. Since then, the health crisis has struck and diverted our attention and, while France was under arrest, confined, the attacks on Romans-sur-Isère and Colombes have sadly reminded us that the threat remains intact. I have a thought for the victims of yesterday's bombing in Reading, near London. In London, an attack was carried out on 2 February by a terrorist who had just been released. The figures give the measure of the phenomenon: 90% of the 1,500 detainees for terrorism or radicalisation will be released by 2025. I recall that Merah, Kouachi, Coulibaly, Kermiche – one of Father Hamel's assassins – had all passed through the prison square! In December, excellent judge Marc Trévidic, quoted by Stéphane Peu, who knows these questions better than anyone else, said: "We are in an area where the risk of recidivism is very high" and "I would compare this to serial criminals." Since 2012, our country has suffered 80 terrorist attacks, all Islamists, resulting in 324 deaths and thousands of injuries. I sat on most commissions of inquiry, participated in hundreds of hours of hearings, made hundreds of trips: we are, most often, faced with ideologically structured men and determined to wage a total war against France. The precautionary principle must be applied. The doubt, and I know that there is often a doubt, must benefit our fellow citizens and only them, not the jihadists, even repented! A rule of law is first and foremost a State that protects its citizens. Security is the first freedom. A Frenchman must be able to shop with his son without being murdered, as was the case a few weeks ago in the Drôme. Zero risk does not exist, but every effort must be made to achieve the goal of zero victim. Imagine that only one of the liberated jihadists goes through or goes back to action! We would all, as parliamentarians, be collectively responsible. Let's not wait for the next attack to tighten the legislation! Unfortunately, we are often in reaction rather than anticipation. Hundreds of jihadists are going out of jail. These men and women are, for some of them, time bombs. Believe me, I made long visits to prison, where I exchanged with prison staff and several inmates. Some practice taqiya, concealment. Unfortunately, our prisons have become schools of jihad. How many people return to it simple delinquents and emerge radicalized and jihadist? So what to do? The proposed law sets out several security measures. Unfortunately, however, the text had been largely emptied of its substance in committee, particularly as a result of the abolition of mobile electronic tracing, which was a fundamental point. I have tabled several amendments: all have been rejected, like most others. We're messing with the deputies! One of my amendments was to create administrative detention centres for the most dangerous terrorists who had served their sentences. Administrative detention is very effective and fully compatible with the rule of law, as demonstrated by the case of Israel, a democratic State that I know well, exposed to terrorism since its inception. In 20 years, administrative detention has divided the number of victims by 15 and prevented thousands of attacks. When a jihadist takes action, it is already too late: before, the risk is not always proven! Second, to allow the Government to deprive the French of their nationality of those guilty of terrorist offences, and thus to expel them from national territory. I would like to recall what I said here in 2014: "As far as binationals directly involved in terrorism are concerned, we will have no choice. One day or another we will have to consider the deprivation of nationality. [...] Exercise is difficult. For, unlike terrorists, we have humanistic considerations that limit our ability to act. And that's normal. But morals are completely absent from terrorist ideology, and this enemy benefits from the fact that we have one! » Six years later, I don't get a word of it. Individuals who have betrayed France and burned their passports do not deserve to be French! The procedure provided for in Article 25 of the Civil Code is subject to conditions that are far too strict. As a result, since 2002, the deprivation of nationality has been applied only 16 times. There's an urgent need to lift those locks. I will go further: even if they have only French nationality, those who betray France and take up arms against it have themselves excluded themselves from the national community! I would also like to have included in the text the ban, for Islamists who have served their sentences, to consult jihadist sites. Unconstitutional, I will be told. But if we have to revise the Constitution to protect the French, let us do so without hesitation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u227	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u228	The IDU and independent group will vote mainly in favour of the bill. However, the progress made is timid, far too timid. To put the jihadists out of order to harm, we would have to go further, and stop cutting the hair in four. Our Republic is threatened by Islamist separatism. Against the background of communalism, hatred of France, delinquency and now racialism, 150 neighbourhoods have already landed. How much tomorrow? Faced with this existential challenge, a combat republic is needed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u229	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u230	I do not hide from you that we have been surprised by the fact that we have read this bill, which the Chair of the Law Committee wanted to put on the agenda. Indeed, after the passage of the SILT law, the law of programming and reform for justice and the anti-casseurs law, we thought that we had gone through the security and repressive texts of the quinquennium. Obviously not! Here is another text – followed by another one to be considered at the beginning of July – which introduces new penal provisions, presented as mere security measures, targeting individuals convicted of terrorist offences and having served their sentences, even though there are already several legal tools to prevent this type of serious crime and recidivism. The Council of State, in its opinion, did not fail to recall this fact, stating that the arsenal of criminal suppression of terrorism, since the adoption of the Act of 9 September 1986, has been "very comprehensive and adapted to terrorist crime", and that the offence of association of criminals in connection with a terrorist enterprise has become "the essential instrument of the courts to prevent the commission of terrorist acts". The Council of State even suggests, in watermark, that the value of creating new preventive security measures in this area is necessarily limited. That is why the Freedom and Territory Group is very reserved for this piece of legislation. Of course, there is no question, for us, of minimizing the terrorist threat – Islamist more specifically, because we must call a cat a cat. It is against this barbaric ideology that we must act, avoiding extending the application of repressive measures created for specific cases to political struggles or separate situations. Our group naturally supports action to prevent the recurrence of Islamist terrorist acts, but does not the existing legal arsenal suffice? Intelligence is essential in this area, but is it used sufficiently? The question deserves to be asked. Preventing the recurrence of radicalized prisoners leaving detention is a real challenge for the authorities. This is a security issue, bearing their political and democratic responsibility. We fully understand the public's concern about the possible danger of radical Islamist individuals, and the risk of a new course of action. However, what do we know so far about this risk of recidivism? Is it very high, medium high or almost zero? In order to determine it, and to act strictly proportionately, would it not be desirable to conduct an assessment in France of the risk of recidivism of persons convicted of terrorist acts? Our group, along with others, is requesting this as part of the review of this bill. The one that was conducted in Belgium, published this year, is interesting in more than one way. It reveals that the recidivism rate in this area is very low compared to that of so-called conventional inmates. Even if this result is counter-intuitive, both for public opinion and for the judiciary and the security services, it must invite us to be cautious. The study carried out in Belgium also reveals that individuals who repeat terrorism usually do so very quickly, less than a year or less than nine months after their release from prison. More specifically, I come to the text. At the time of its consideration in committee, we were wondering about the relevance of the renewal deadlines for the very long security measures. This provision was corrected in committee, with a reduction of half of the original text. In committee, we removed mobile electronic surveillance from the security measures that can be ordered against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence. It was important. In fact, placement under electronic supervision is ordered by the court of judgment as part of a socio-judicial follow-up. This is therefore a supplementary penalty. It may also be pronounced in the context of judicial supervision. Re-establishing the PSEM would undermine the principle of non bis in idem law, according to which no one may be prosecuted or punished criminally on the basis of the same facts. During the examination of the text in committee, our colleagues in the MODEM Group, led by Laurence Vichnievsky, recalled that this mechanism has a particularly pronounced restrictive nature of freedom, which equates it to a measure that is more punitive than preventive, so that a risk of unconstitutionality of the text is to be feared. The law is clear: while judicial supervision is a preventive and non-punitive security measure, it applies only for the duration of the sentence. The provision, however, had a temporal scope that exceeded the duration of the original conviction, to the point that one could wonder if one would not cross the boundaries of the rule of law there. However, these adjustments obtained in committee do not diminish the fears of the members of our group, and in particular my own, about the risk that these measures intended for Islamist terrorists will be applied to other audiences, whose intentions, whether we like it or not, are not the same. I repeat this to you with force: since it is free from any deliberate intention to kill innocent people, in a barbaric manner, within the framework of an identified ideology, the fight of an alter-globalist, Corsican or Basque activist is not the same as that of a radicalist Islamist individual whose objective is to kill those whom he calls the unbelievers. The penalty imposed for the acts committed, which must of course be proportionate, cannot be the same as that imposed on a radical Islamist. Yet, the same repressive arsenal is being activated for these two radically different situations! It should not be possible to put material degradation and harm to the life of a man or woman on the same level, and yet the same provisions are applied. The same errors are reproduced here as the terrorist crime file, which now contains a wide range of activists. Everyone is put in the same bag: instead of calming tensions, they are stirred up! I recall that the long and winding paths that brought peace to Corsica and the Basque country must be considered with the eyes of history. The vast majority of members of the Libertés et Territoires Group will not vote for this text as it stands. We hope that it will undergo profound changes in the course of the discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u231	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u232	Perhaps I will express a more singular point of view than those before. This is not a scoop: we will oppose this text introducing security measures. I understand that, in your logic, it serves to fill a gap, but from our point of view, it serves to complete a development that we are opposed to. Already, during the consideration of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform bill, I was defending in this House amendments aimed at removing security measures – in general, not just on terrorist acts. We have a principled opposition to security measures, as they add to the penalties imposed by other measures that violate individual freedoms – this is their very principle. The objective we must aim at is to prevent recidivism in the particular area of offences – offences and crimes – of a terrorist nature. Let us now note the semantic shift in the title of the bill, suggesting that such prevention necessarily involves surveillance measures. As if the other part of prevention, made of social and integration measures, could be overtaken! As if it were worth losing, a conviction for a terrorist offence worth a life sentence! This is indeed a loss of trust in humanity, which leads to forget that a person, if he or she has committed terrorist acts, may not reoffend. In this case, we should not remain indifferent to the scientific study, conducted by Belgian researchers and published recently, showing that the level of recidivism in terrorist matters is very low, and much lower than it is in other criminal matters. In any case, would we be disarmed in the absence of security measures? Of course not! Moreover, the Council of State, in its opinion on the text, recalled this, stating that we already have such an extensive panel of administrative supervision measures that abandoning security measures does not mean losing sight of a person who is believed to be dangerous. In reality, this text once again affirms a principle that was once introduced into our criminal law: the principle of danger, which is not based on any facts. For, if it were based on facts, it would not be dangerous, but a judicial qualification taking on the procedural elements we all know – criminal prosecution, trial and conviction! This principle of danger, in the field of terrorism, is essentially based on aspects of religion, so that we do not have the objective because, for the most part, this religion represents a marginal and non-primary motivation, as is taught by criminology and analysis of facts. If it's about giving in to fears, then let's equip each one with an electronic bracelet and let's look at each one of them! This one has a beard too long, this one wears a djellaba – what does he do in djellaba? What does he really think? Isn't he going to do something about it? It's endless! As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this is a society where suspicion knows no bounds!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u233	Three hundred and fifty dead.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u234	The function of criminal procedure, the rule of law and the principle of security is precisely to set a limit on arbitrariness. Unfortunately, we continue to sink corners, under the guise of supposed dangerousness of individuals. We must therefore oppose the text, as well as the safety measures in general, which are also a demonstration of the failure of the use of prison time. In fact, placing the prisoners concerned under surveillance, in isolation, excludes them from the reintegration arrangements and from access to cultural associations, hence from the return to the life of the city. For the ultimate objective, I hope that we share this view, is not that they repeat it again: it is to prevent anyone who has committed a terrorist act or planned to commit a kind of detention even more determined to commit one! However, it seems to me that we are provoking the opposite behaviour by monitoring people without interruption and imposing restrictions on their freedom even though they have served their sentences. We're sending them a signal that they're suspects and suspects for life. What do you want it to cause, in the end? Do you think that anyone who feels watched for life thinks that the Republic has integrated it, that it wants it, or that it is necessary to become even more radical against it? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you the question. This is the nerve of the reflection that we must carry out. But you obviously gave it up... like the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u235	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u236	This bill is the result of a laudable intention, an urgent and urgent obligation to fill a legal vacuum to ensure the protection of our fellow citizens from terrorists who, when they leave prison, remain profoundly dangerous for our nation. Unfortunately, it is absolutely not up to the challenge. Moreover, the removal by amendment of the mandatory wearing of the geolocalized bracelet deprived him of one of its most notable provisions which could have been useful. We will see what emerges from the discussion. Generally speaking, the statements made, including the keeping of seals, reveal the naivety, unconsciousness and danger of the French by the Government and the majority. One day, historians will wonder why our Republic has fainted before barbarians who have attacked our values, our nation and our fellow citizens. Why so much attention, so much precaution towards those who declared war on us? Because this is what it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u237	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u238	This is a war since successive presidents, from François Hollande to Emmanuel Macron, ordered our armed forces to liquidate their leaders in the outside theatres. Historians will wonder why, in the name of our values, which are attacked and denied, and our civilization, we collapse without fighting, why we continue to accept the presence of terrorists on our soil. Historians will wonder why so much weakness – because it is not ordinary offenders, but foreigners or French who have placed themselves outside the national community! This has nothing to do with the usual discussions. They have killed more than 260 people since 2015, and the families of the victims are outraged by the ongoing hesitation that is manifested. I hear the words of balance and ridge line, but we're talking about enemies of the Republic! Our Republic has been firmly established, it has struggled to achieve civil peace and respect, and now we are disappearing – that you are disappearing. Historians will ask three questions which I also ask myself, like the French, before your unconsciousness. First, why are the sentences so light? If they remain so dangerous at the end of their imprisonment, it is good because they have not been convicted severely enough! In most democracies, they would have received the death penalty, because they fought the nation, confronted our soldiers and killed cowardly. At least life? No. Thirty years in prison? No. We do not even apply article 411-4 of the Criminal Code, which punishes 30 years of criminal detention for acts of intelligence with the enemy, whether it is a State or an organization acting against France. What is Daesh if it is not an organisation that acts against France? So why the weakness? Why do you have such lax convictions? Eight, ten, twelve years for terrorists... How can we accept this in our country? The French are rightly outraged. Of course, since they are condemned so lightly, terrorists leave prison with the same hatred of the Republic, our values and our civilization. They will be 31 in 2020, 62 in 2021, 50 in 2022. The police and intelligence services are unable to monitor them. Of course, we need to make arrangements. The intelligence services have alerted to this. So, second question, why such an inability to get to the end? Would the wearing of a geo-localized electronic bracelet be such a serious violation of the rights of people who have murdered loosely, who want to start over, who are accomplices to terrorist organizations? How far will we go in collective weakness? It's incomprehensible. But there's worse. This is the subject of my third question, Madam Seals keeper, and I am glad to be able to put your eyes in your eyes: how can you agree to repatriate jihadists on our soil? [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] You said in March 2019 – I don't know the updated figures – that 200 adults had returned to our soil, not to mention children. But in the name of what? They got out of the national community by going to fight our country, in the name of what were you repatriating them? You create flying bombs on our soil, don't we have enough? It's a shame. So, yes, I recommend the closure of the Salafist mosques – 130 remain – the fight against Islamic madness on the internet, the deprivation of nationality that had even been proposed by François Hollande before Congress after the terrible attacks before disappearing, the expulsion of foreign registered S and the creation of a state security court...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u239	We really have to conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u240	We've heard enough of you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u241	The justice of the Republic has forgotten to defend the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u242	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u243	Mr Dupont-Aignan, you spoke of naivety, unconsciousness and danger to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u244	Yes, and I'll hold on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u245	It is, of course, the opposite: I will talk about realism, anticipation and protection. Unlike you, I trust our judges.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u246	Not me!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u247	I get it. I thank all the Members present in this Chamber because we are unanimous on the fact. Many of you approve of the measures in the bill. Some, including my dear colleague Stéphane Peu, were surprised that the text came from a parliamentary initiative. But Parliament is well-founded to deal with such matters! Let us not forget that it was Parliament which wanted the parliamentary delegation to the intelligence, which wanted the control of the SILT law, which wanted the visiting rights of parliamentarians in prisons – the members of the law commission exercise it on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u248	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u249	It was Parliament that brought before the Council of State the bill that it is debating today. We have the right to address security and terrorism issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u251	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u252	As I said in my presentation, for me, a bill must be concrete, circumscribed and effective. To be effective, it must be applicable immediately. That is why we – I am thinking of Raphaël Gauvain, the majority and most of you – have been extremely rigorous in trying to stay on a ridge path and ensure the constitutionality of the text, because it depends on the security of the French. So, no, we don't give chin blows by asking more and more,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u253	There's nothing in this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u254	Three hundred and fifty dead!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u255	... at the risk of adopting a text that is not in conformity with our Constitution. Yes, the bill fills a legal gap. She doesn't pretend to do any more. Let us not forget the other devices: prevention and treatment of radicalization in prison must not be abandoned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u256	Three hundred and fifty dead!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u257	What a naivety!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u258	Terrorism must be combated with all weapons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u259	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u260	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The bill will add a weapon to our arsenal, and this arsenal is that of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u261	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u262	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u263	I cannot hide my scepticism with regard to the provisions of this article. In addition to proportionality, which once again puts the bill at risk of unconstitutionality, our fundamental principles will be undermined – here I am thinking of the non-retroactivity of penalties that underpin our criminal law. I understand the urgency of action and the risk posed by the prospect of the end of the sentences of hundreds of terrorists. You will be able to count on me as soon as action is needed to ensure the safety of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u264	Yeah, but how?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u265	I say this particularly on this day when Guyana is celebrating the fifty-eighth anniversary of the disappearance, on 22 June 1962, of Justin Catayée, Member of Parliament for Guyana, who disappeared prematurely, with 112 other passengers, including the self-nomist activist Albert Béville, in an air crash in Guadeloupe that remains unsolved and for which the terrorist track has still not been ruled out. I pay tribute to him here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u266	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u267	The text we are discussing tonight is important. Thank you, Madam Chair of the Law Committee, for taking the initiative. This text comes late, too late. It partially fills, we will discuss, a vacuum that the Government did not want to fill. I regret that, Madam Keeper of the Seals, because we know the seriousness of the subject. We know the magnitude of the threat, which is undoubtedly the greatest in the field of terrorism before us: the release from prison of detainees convicted of Islamist terrorism – there are 534 – or who have radicalised in prison – for the latter, your text unfortunately lacks provisions. To illustrate the seriousness of our debate, I would like to quote the remarks made by Jean-François Ricard, prosecutor of the counter-terrorism Republic, during his hearing in the framework of parliamentary control of the SILT law: he referred to "more than a worry, a real fear" with regard to "the dozens of people who are going out of prison, who are very dangerous and whose convictions are absolute". In other words, it is accepted that these people will not change, that the prison has done nothing about it and that they are extremely dangerous. We must take into account this dangerousness, without naivety – I repeat the term. Even if the measures that you propose go in the right direction, despite the removal of the placement under mobile electronic surveillance, which has caused a stir even in your majority, we must go further: we must break with the naivety guilty...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u268	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u269	...that has for years prevented us from taking the right steps. You are talking about the Constitution: let us not deprive ourselves of changing it to better protect the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u270	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u271	[[Applause on the banks of the LR Group. – Mr MeyerHabibapplauditedalso]] In particular, we must introduce security detention, which I believe is essential, as Nicolas Sarkozy had created for sexual criminals. Let us have the courage to do so for the terrorists who threaten our society!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u272	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u273	I was amazed at the silence of the seal keeper at the end of the general discussion, but perhaps the answer we received came in anticipation of the future seal keeper? Perhaps we are witnessing a witness passage tonight?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u274	Very elegant!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u275	Damn it, as usual!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u276	Eric Ciotti spoke of danger, and the effect of prison time. We tabled an amendment, which was declared inadmissible, requesting a report to take stock of the prevention of radicalization in prison. The goal was to base our decisions on analysis, not fear. I understood that fear was there, and even that it was a compass. But fear is very often bad counselor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u277	What about naivety? What about unconsciousness?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u278	We need to find some reason. What's the reasonable approach? It consists of considering that the time of detention has not been used to prevent recidivism. This is a major issue. It is not I who say it, but the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty: for once, we could listen to it, instead of judging its opinions very interesting – and to move on! Otherwise, it is endless: we incarcerate, it is useless, so we adopt security measures, which are insufficient, so the right demands security detention – Nicolas Sarkozy had already opened the breach in 2008... And in the end, is the problem solved? No! I want to solve the problem, and my group, La France, wishes to do so too. Maybe we have to admit that we haven't seen it right so far? Perhaps it is reasonable to question the prevention of recidivism, as the researchers and the Observatoire de la récidivisme et de la désistance do, by analysing the relevant criteria in this field. Were these criteria used for radicalized people? No. However, the use of security measures is foreseen when everything else has failed. Have we really tried everything?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u279	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-22-O1243.u280	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the proposed law introducing security measures against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence. The meeting is adjourned.
