ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u1	Prime Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before calling on the Government to consider the issues, I would like to welcome, on behalf of national representation, the courage and mobilization of the people of our country in the difficult times that we are going through. Every day, the blackness of the coronavirus increases a little more. Strict instructions were given; I observe that the vast majority of our fellow citizens respect them, thus helping to halt the spread of the pandemic. However, the country is not under arrest. France struggles, and it will overcome this ordeal. That is why we are sitting, certainly in a very small format: to ensure our constitutional mission and to make our democracy live. It is also for this reason that countless health, relief, care and aid professionals, civil servants from all sectors, military, railwaymen, transporters, delivery agents, logistics actors, peasants, workers, fishermen and professionals indispensable to the economic and social life of our country, make every effort to maintain, every day, the essential activities. These committed citizens – along with all the others – I greet them, and I know that everyone here salutes them as I do. Because they work to save lives, because they expose themselves to the community, they deserve more than our gratitude. I tell them our admiration. France is strong. It proves this in the ongoing confrontation with a devious peril that it is determined to defeat. This war – because it is a war – has bereaved many families. We share their grief. We share the suffering of those who are affected by the disease, or who are concerned about a loved one. Having a friend in resuscitation without being able to visit or lose a relative without being able to bow to his grave is a repetition of the sentence. This pain is ours, as representatives of the entire nation. The pandemic has also bereaved our Republic, taking away the life of our former colleague Patrick Devedjian, who, for more than thirty years – either as a Member of Parliament or as a Minister – sat in this House. I do not need to remind the speaker that he was: all fire, all flames, inspiring respect for his political opponents themselves by the extent of his culture, his independence of mind and his brilliance. To his family, friends and collaborators, I extend the sympathy of the national representative. Finally, our assembly is bereaved by the disappearance of our colleague Jean-François Cesarini, who had been fighting for three years against another disease, just as dreadful. In his last days of mandate, he put his patient experience at the service of France, offering everyone a digital route so that everyone could carry out their online procedures during confinement. His last political act was to salute the action of the Minister of Solidarity and Health, as well as that of the nursing staff, against the Covid-19. At Jean-François Cesarini, altruism went hand in hand with profound humanism – a humanism in action, which involved public engagement, technological innovation and culture. He loved poetry, theatre and song. Inheritance to the Enlightenment, he knew the power of the arts in the project of individuals and societies. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members as well as MM. the members of the Government observe a minute of silence]] In love with Avignon, his hometown, he had taken on the role of French Tech Culture at the service of local development. At the Palais-Bourbon, we will hold the smile of this social democrat, a citizen of the world, who carried high the ideals of human fraternity. I will deliver his eulogy at a next sitting. I ask you to observe a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u2	The next item is the question to the Government. I would remind you that, in the context of the current crisis, the Conference of Presidents has laid down rules derogating from the organisation of our Question Sessions. Only a limited number of ministers and only one Member per group are present in the Chamber. The questions with the same theme are grouped together, with each question being answered specifically. The number of questions is reduced; However, the usual speaking times remain, two minutes per question and as much by reply – if any, reply or counter-replicate. In order to minimize the number of staff present, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers of which you have become aware is not displayed on the screens during the meeting. Thank you for your understanding. Finally, the health rules that are now customary continue to prevail, including the following measures: cleaning the microphones during the session – I remind you that you are asked not to put your hands on the microphones and to use a different microphone per speaker –, respecting the distances between the participants, entering and going out. We begin our session with questions about the Covid-19 crisis in general, and about health in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u3	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u4	In the serious crisis we are experiencing, I would like to say, on behalf of the Republican Group, our compassion and solidarity with the victims of the Covid-19 and their families. I also have a special thought in memory of our former colleague Patrick Devedjian and our colleague Jean-François Cesarini. Prime Minister, last week our colleague Virginie Duby-Muller, on behalf of the Republican Group, expressed our incomprehension and regretted the absence of a massive screening policy in our country. Screening has a triple virtue: it allows to identify the patients, to isolate them in order to protect their entourage, and to act without waiting for possible complications. The countries where the mortality caused by the epidemic is lowest – some countries in South-East Asia as well as our German neighbours – are the ones that test massively. You announced a turn a few days ago, a change of course. We welcome this, but we still do not understand your strategy. You will announce that you will massively track the population, but for the most part at the end of confinement, that is, when the pandemic will be behind us or almost behind us. You're talking about a target of 100,000 tests a day, but for the month of June! By then, we'd be going from 5000 tests a week to 20,000, starting next week. You will agree: these figures do not match the needs of our country! Who will benefit from this extra test? Are you ready to focus on institutions for the elderly, which are the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable to the virus? Their confinement in a room, in residential institutions for dependent elderly people, the EHPADs, is not a solution that can last for a long time. Let's not wait for the hecatombe! Prime Minister, what policy of systematic screening are you prepared to implement to treat them as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u5	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u6	Mr. Marleix, you are raising the issue of Covid-19 testing. I will repeat the information given to the nation last Saturday at a press conference. There are three test methods. The PCR method – Polymerase Chain Reaction or chain polymerization reaction – is safe. We use it in France, like other countries in the world on their respective territories. The technique used is cumbersome; It involves PCR technology platforms. We have bought new ones, which are spread across the country, including overseas. The use of the PCR method is increasing in power. We have exceeded the threshold of 20,000 achievable tests per day, and we will reach 50,000 tests per day by the end of April. As the epidemic progresses, there are more and more new patients, including caregivers, vulnerable people, hospitalized people and people living in EHPAD – as well as those who work there – who are potentially ill or fragile, and therefore need to be protected. The increase in the number of tests makes it possible to systematically identify priority audiences. In addition, we placed orders for new tests. No country in the world has been applying a rapid testing policy for days, which is the result of innovation and research and development. We bought some; We will be able to provide the French with 30 000 per day as early as April. We will gradually increase the supply to reach 100,000 tests not day in the next two months. Finally, the third method of screening is serology. It will determine, through a blood sample, whether someone has been ill, whether they have been in contact with the virus, whether they are immune, whether they have nothing to fear about it. In any case, I repeat, caregivers working in EHPADs are top priority audiences for virus detection, whether by the PCR method or by rapid testing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u7	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u8	By delegation of Patrick Mignola, chairman of the MODEM and related groups, it is for me to ask the Minister of Solidarity and Health a question sent by our colleague Michèle de Vaucouleurs, Member of Parliament for the Yvelines, to which I will be allowed to associate Justine Benin, Nathalie Elimas, Brahim Hammouche, Cyril Isaac-Sibille and Bruno Millienne, all members of the Committee on Social Affairs. The particularly worrying health situation in EHPADs, at a time when we are meeting, must lead us to rethink deeply the management of dependency, both in dedicated structures and at home. Since the beginning of the legislature, this subject has mobilized our assembly, eager to get back to work to give substance to a more satisfactory care of our elders. While EHPAD care and administrative staff are struggling, home care is also in difficulty, due to the many medical stops made by caregivers at home. In this context, it seems appropriate for my fellow members of the Committee on Social Affairs to anticipate the publication of the implementing decree on the compensation of close care leave provided for in Article 45 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2020. Let us remember: nearly 11 million French, or one in six, are regular but non-professional caregivers, who support a loved one in loss of autonomy. Thus, everyone understands the interest of our colleagues in the above-mentioned Committee on Social Affairs in any measure to ensure that the helpers who wish to do so can devote themselves fully to the support of their loved ones, as soon as possible. Minister, the Order in Council for the implementation of the provision is scheduled for October 2020. Don't you think advancing its publication would be a measure of social justice?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u9	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u10	You are asking me about the particular situation of caregivers during the epidemic, which I thank you for. This is a key issue. I would like to take this opportunity to take stock of this. On the issue of compensation for caregiving leave, which is a major step forward in the last social security budget, I am making every effort to ensure that we publish the implementing decree as soon as possible. I take note of your request, which I am very sensitive to. Because they take care of the most vulnerable people on a daily basis, carers are one of the exceptional exceptions to the restrictions on leaving the home, allowing them to visit their sick loved ones, in situations of disability or loss of autonomy. This is an exception to the ban on movement, as well as the need to ensure that older persons remain confined to their homes, as far as possible from others. They cannot live without their caregivers; It was normal for the nation to recognize it by all means. Beyond the issue of vulnerable people in EHPAD, the issue of disability, particularly children with disabilities, should not be left out. Some facilities are closed, but services must remain available for parents who need them, even at a distance, even by telephone or videoconference. I entrusted Jérôme Guedj, a former parliamentarian, with a mission on the particular issue of the isolation, during confinement, of elderly or fragile persons, whose number exceeds 1.3 million. We work daily on this subject. I thank the local elected officials for their unwavering commitment; the local authorities, the communal centres for social action – CCIS – and the whole of the associative fabric act to take news, to call, to contact, to take care of the isolated people. I also thank the Red Cross and all the associations with which Christelle Dubos, Secretary of State for the Elderly, and I work every day. As far as disability is concerned, I will be making a communication very soon with Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for People with Disabilities, to promote innovative solutions of solidarity in this period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u11	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u12	Prime Minister, in the face of the crisis of coronavirus, my group, which I have the honour to represent today, has sent me many questions; I'll talk about two of them here. The first concerns resuscitation. You announced last Saturday that you want to increase our country's capacity to 14,000 places, compared to 10000 at present and 5000 initially. Thank you. Beyond that, however, there is the question of the stocks of medicines used in resuscitation, in particular curare cisatracurium and midazolam. Can you confirm to me that France has sufficient stocks to operate 14000 resuscitation places, and for how long? The question of the post-resuscitation phase, which is necessary for all patients who have undergone acute resuscitation, also arises. I would like you to indicate the number of places available. My second question concerns the overseas countries and territories. The first cases appeared, and the situation is going to be very complicated because of the island situation, because of the inadequacies of hospitals on site, because of the difficulty of maintaining containment when temperatures are close to 30 degrees, as is already the case, due to a lack of masks. With regard to La Réunion, the Minister for Overseas Affairs said yesterday that the quota of 425,000 masks planned for the island had already been received, in two orders. However, health professionals continue to warn about the lack of protective equipment – not only in Réunion, but everywhere else. Can you tell me the state of the stock of masks and tests in the overseas? Who can benefit from it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u13	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u14	Madam President, you ask a lot of questions, you ask a lot of numbers; You recently sent me a letter which, I believe, included almost twenty-five specific questions. That is entirely legitimate, and I will naturally try to answer it as scrupulously as possible. In this period, I try to do my best to provide our fellow citizens with the precise answers they expect; when I don't have the number in mind – for example with regard to the stock of masks in a particular department – I prefer to refer you to a more complete answer that will be given to you in writing or at a future meeting. However, I will answer both of your questions. With regard to the overseas countries, the insularity, as you said, must be taken into account in the organisation of care. We know the health fragility of these territories; It is old, and sometimes called into question by massive investment projects: you know like me that a new hospital, very resilient, very efficient, is being built in Guadeloupe. But it's not finished. It is because we know the delicate health situation that we have taken steps in advance of the epidemic situation. We confined all of the ultramarine territories while in some of them the virus was not yet circulating under epidemic conditions and we were still at what is sometimes referred to as stage 1 or stage 2. Their health fragility makes it even more necessary to slow down the circulation of the virus in these territories. We have therefore taken measures: quarantine, or rather quaterzaine, upon arrival in the territory; strict limitation of the grounds for entry into the territories; general containment; the possibility for prefects to take curfew measures – as in the national context, but we encouraged the ultramarine prefects to make use of this possibility if they felt it was necessary. At the same time, we chose to increase the hospital capacity of these territories as much as possible. I do not have the numbers in mind, but I had the opportunity to say last Saturday that, in all the ultramarine territories, the capacity for reception in resuscitation would be increased, in order to provide an answer which, no matter what, will be a delicate response to a delicate situation. You have to say it clearly. That is why we have also decided to plan means, including military means, to relieve the overseas population, particularly in the case of resuscitation beds. You are also asking me about medicines. We have stocks, of course. But again, I want to be clear: all over the world, the use of drugs used in resuscitation is exploding – it is not, as you know me, unique to France. If, in France, we have gone from about 5000 resuscitation beds to more than 10000, if we see similar developments in Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States, then it is inevitable that the consumption of the molecules necessary for placement and maintenance in resuscitation will explode. That is why we have put in place a national procurement plan: so we place bundled orders, and we can use the influence of French diplomacy when procurement is not strictly national. We have also put in place a method of distributing medicines between different regions, so that everyone can have access to the necessary molecules. It's a difficult exercise. Some of the measures that we are taking may seem ancillary, or minimal, but are in fact essential: we have thus ensured that the decision is taken, within the European Union, that the medicines produced on the territory of the Union or on the outside can arrive in one form of packaging, that is to say, using in particular one language, English. This simple derogation from the usual rule allowed some plants to multiply their production by three; they can focus on product production rather than on the specificities of each country. We thus increase our ability to supply ourselves. In this way, we ensure that the eight essential molecules – my science is recent – are present in our stocks. However, I do not want to hide any difficulties which may arise, not in the short or probably medium term, but in the long term, if the pharmaceutical industry does not increase its production capacity considerably. No production chain could sustain a 2000 % increase in consumption! This is, of course, the essential issue of this fight, which must be collective, and which we intend to carry out with all our partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u15	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u16	My thoughts begin with the families of Patrick Devedjian and Jean-François Cesarini. Prime Minister, last Friday, you announced the extension of the containment of the population until 15 April, stating that the next two weeks would be even more difficult. The scientific committee, on which you say you rely, had for its part advocated six weeks. Why do these announcements of successive periods of fifteen days, which do not allow to anticipate, to prepare, and which create confusion? Moreover, as we know, containment will only be effective if we effectively provide the means to protect those who protect us. In addition to the shortage of masks, there is also a shortage of superblouses, respirators, but also so-called "PCR" tests, which would prevent contamination, particularly in hospital settings. Beyond the billions we are told to invest, concrete announcements about their availability are systematically out of step with reality. Can you assure us that caregivers will be adequately equipped with equipment, and that they will be tested? Can you assure us that law enforcement will be protected to ensure containment, that we will have the ability to properly equip firefighters, paramedics, EHPAD personnel, home helpers – all those who are sent on the front line and all those who continue to work for the good of all? Could we have reliable and accurate timetables for all materials, as well as data on their distribution? Well, what's your strategy for the coming weeks? Defining will only be possible by identifying people immunized against Covid -19, which requires the rapid development of serology tests. When will they be ready and for what use? Beyond the immediate, urgent measures of protection that you owe to the French, can you give us prospects, inform us about your crisis and exit strategy, which we know will only be gradual? You owe it to the French not only to explain how, but also to explain why your decisions are made.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u17	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u18	Madam Member, there are many questions in your question. The main concern, I believe, is the strategy of protecting our citizens and of combating the epidemic – a more accurate term here than that of "management". A study by Imperial College London, published late last night, questions the effect of containment and its effectiveness. We believe it is effective: France has taken widespread containment measures at an early stage, and we have repeatedly said that this is the only way to curb the spread of a virus because of a lack of vaccine. This English study – of which I have no reason to doubt, even if I do not take it for cash – shows that the effect of confinement is major: in twelve days, it estimates that 2,500 lives have been spared in our country. Every eight minutes we save a life by staying with us; and this number will increase day by day, as confinement bears fruit. We will lift the confinement when it is no longer necessary, when the active circulation of the virus has stopped and when the hospitals that are fighting today in the Great East, in Île-de-France, in Burgundy-Franche-Comté and in many other regions will have managed to cope with the wave of patients in a severe state that fills the beds of resuscitation and for which hundreds of thousands of caregivers and actors of national protection are mobilized on a daily basis. To these, we owe protection. This goes first through masks, and we have made all the light on the current commands. Today, 1.7 billion masks have been ordered in France and abroad; They will reach us gradually. Air arrivals are now almost daily, and daily for those of our French industries. The President of the Republic said this morning that, by the end of the year, France will be autonomous, in the long term, with regard to the production of masks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u19	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u20	Minister, I was asking you why you announced an extension of the 15-day confinement when the Scientific Committee asked for six weeks, so I am not questioning its relevance, quite the contrary. On the other hand, I asked you to put into perspective today's decisions and those of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u21	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u22	Prime Minister, "In my hospital, we have three days of stock of anesthetics. We have to choose the patients admitted to our service, depending on their probability of getting out of it. But if we were to stop treating or miscarriage those who can get out of it, it would be really terrible." This is the unbearable suffering of caregivers. They lack everything: masks, beds, personnel, breathers, tests and now medicines. They lack curares, essential to relax the muscles during patient intubation; sedatives for people in resuscitation; morphine; antibiotics. A disaster in the disaster. The lack of medication is the impossibility of respiratoring all the people who should be. They're people who are going to die of choking because of pain when we could have saved them. We're not talking about weeks for a total breakup of some of these drugs, but about days. You're already asking hospitals to limit the use of morphine. The shortage is already there. You were alerted last week by the chairman of the medical committee of the Paris Public Hospital Assistance, the AP-HP, as well as by the Observatoire de la transparence dans les politiques du médication. No answer. Your crisis management, Prime Minister, is a management of the shortage. At your press conference, you said: "As soon as we feel that the requisition is necessary, requisitions will be made. Do you still not feel the urgency? We have the know-how in France. What are you waiting for to requisition the means of production to supply these essential medicines? What are you waiting for to nationalize Luxfer, the last plant in Europe to produce medical oxygen bottles, or Famar, which manufactures twelve medicines of major therapeutic interest? Every hour counts to make these vital decisions. Coordinating production, requisitioning the necessary companies, involving the workers concerned is what we call health planning. We are here today because the law of the market had the last word: thirty years ago, 80% of the medicines were produced in Europe; Today's 20%. Organize the return of the state, Prime Minister. Nationalize, requisition – or let us do it! Otherwise you'll be held accountable for a shipwreck.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u23	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u24	I would like to correct one of your assertions – the list could be long but it is one that I would like to correct immediately: no request to limit the use of morphine has been made to anyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u25	It's the carers who say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u26	You claim that we have demanded that caregivers limit the use of morphine. I repeat, as Minister of Solidarity and Health, and with seriousness – you cannot manipulate such information to make a stand-alone effect: there are no restrictions on the administration to patients of medicines to combat pain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u27	That's what caregivers say in Île-de-France!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u28	On the other hand, stocks of anaesthetic products and the use of certain products in hospitals are being strained. For the first, the Prime Minister has explained at the moment, we can count on a strategic national stock of eight molecules of major interest, allowing for massive orders and rigorous, territorialized management, according to the needs expressed by health institutions and liberal doctors. The Prime Minister also mentioned the explosion in the consumption – up to 2000 % increase – of certain drugs, not in France but worldwide – in the United States, Europe, all over Asia, Africa, in short, everywhere. When all countries are looking for the same medicine at the same time, production capacities are obviously energized, both in France and elsewhere, so that they can meet demand. But as the epidemic progresses, as patients accumulate in hospitals and resuscitation services, all productive systems and care systems around the world are in tension. Trying to make it seem that the problem would be Franco-French is not up to the stakes, Madame Panot. I have never denied, and I will never deny, the difficulties when they exist – and they can happen. That is why we are taking all the necessary measures: for example, the requisition of masks on 3 March – France was the only country in Europe to decide it. The President of the Republic announced this morning that 10,000 respirators have been ordered from all industries in our country able, within a few days, to reorient their production to provide protective equipment and means of treating the sick. This is the image of France that we can send back from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u29	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u30	Since the outbreak began, the World Health Organization has been calling on all affected countries to increase screening for each symptomatic case. Its Director General recalled yesterday in Geneva a simple message for all countries: "Test, test, test people! » While our German neighbours now carry out half a million screening tests a week, France was still carrying out only 5,000 tests a day last week. Last Saturday, you seemed to want to make a change of strategy by announcing the massive order of serological tests in the hope of being able to perform some 100,000 tests a day by the end of June. While we note this strategic inflection, many issues remain. What justifies the fact that our country has not, from the outset, taken the decision to follow WHO's screening recommendations? This question calls for another one on the health strategy for exiting the containment of the population – you mentioned the end of June for screening tests. Our citizens aspire to clear information on the strategy pursued, the prospects and projections that are yours. Today, the vast majority of our citizens respect confinement – we must stress it and show our solidarity with them. They all the more need to be enlightened about the method. Do you expect to have the number of screening tests required to initiate the release of containment? Is your goal still to reach the threshold of group immunity, making sure that by then you minimize the number of victims? Will the release be gradual, depending on the availability of masks for the general public? Are we going to run out of medication? So many questions we would like to hear from you, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u31	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u32	Your question, Mrs Faucillon, is about our overall strategy and its prospects for evolution. It addresses a key issue: immunization of the population. From what proportion of French immunized – by a vaccine, if it exists, or after being affected by the disease, symptomatically or not – can we consider that the virus no longer circulates? How can we curb this traffic as much as possible to allow our hospitals to treat the sick? The current situation in the Grand-Est and Île-de-France shows how vital it was to call for widespread containment in order to avoid an even greater influx of patients into hospitals that would have taken our health care system completely. How to ensure the level of immunization of the population, ask yourself? It is the whole purpose of serology that determines whether a person has developed antibodies, immunoglobulins, in response to exposure to the virus, in the absence of a vaccine. I wholeheartedly hope, and you too, that our industrialists, Sanofi or others, will be able to develop one very quickly. It is also important to welcome the mobilization of the pharmaceutical industry. I take my hat off them, because this one is by our side and its employees work from night to morning to do research and produce the drugs. It must also be recognized in times of epidemics. Serology, which ensures the immunization of the population, is being researched and developed. No country in the world has yet managed to establish a serology that can be spread on a large scale, but the research is progressing very quickly and I am very hopeful that in a few days, perhaps a few weeks at the latest, we can perform serologies in the population. We will then see what percentage of it is immunized. This will be a very valuable indicator for piloting health policies once we have lifted the containment, in addition to the screening policy I mentioned a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u33	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u34	First of all, let me send a message of condolences to the family and relatives of our late colleague, Jean-François Cesarini, from all the members of the La République on the move. I am asking this question on behalf of my colleague Michel Lauzzana. Minister of Solidarity and Health, the Covid-19 pandemic we know is putting a severe strain on our health care system. Michel Lauzanna wishes to recall all his support for the health workers who struggle every day to save lives, and for the entire health chain, from the secretaries to the ambulance workers. It also wishes to commend the staff of the State and local and regional authorities who provide daily needs, and more broadly to all those who work. Saving lives is in the most serious cases, placing the patient in resuscitation. To do this, we need powerful anaesthetic drugs such as curare. Many professionals are alarmed by a worrying reduction in stocks in hospitals. In its district of Lot-et-Garonne, a UPSA plant in Agen produces various forms of paracetamol. MP Lauzanna wishes to acknowledge the work of the employees who work tirelessly in the production of medicines. If a French production of medicines continues, unfortunately, the raw material is imported from China or the United States. This crisis therefore leads us to wonder about our industrial pharmaceutical strategy and the need to relocate production and raw material by, for example, valuing the made in France. The question of tariff policy and its impacts also arises. France needs a new industrial pharmaceutical policy in particular to protect its strategic sites. Michel Lauzanna wished to know what the Government was considering in that regard. In view of the production and stocks of medicines available, is the risk of shortages so far completely eliminated?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u35	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u36	In times of epidemic, faced with an unknown virus, asserting that there is no risk would go beyond what I can decently respond to you in conscience, considering the data of science in France and in the world. Some facts have already been mentioned during this session, including the explosion in the demand for medicines around the world – more than 2000 % – which creates tensions, sometimes shortages or, at the very least, a reduction in stocks. This requires us constantly to establish an accelerated and reactive logistics to ensure that no hospital lacks the means to treat the patients. This is the case throughout the world – I am talking to my European counterparts, but also to the US and Japan, within the framework of the G7 Santé. Mr Lauzzana is right to point out that this raises the major question of the independence of France and Europe in the production of vital, essential materials. It is a reflection that we have already begun. As you know, a number of provisions have been adopted in the last bill on the financing of social security. One of them obliges pharmaceutical laboratories to store on the national territory the equivalent of four months of stock for medicinal products of major therapeutic interest. We will have the opportunity to return to the essential issue of reindustrialization. I have already welcomed the strong mobilization of the pharmaceutical industry to meet the demand and I reiterate my tribute because it deserves it. Regional health agencies set priorities for their region in the distribution of essential drug stocks over the period. We are strengthening supply through increased sourcing, in conjunction with the National Drug and Health Product Safety Agency. We regulate more strictly the stocks present on the territory, on the model of what we do for the breathers. Finally, wherever necessary, we identify, together with caregivers, alternatives for certain medicines if they are missing tomorrow. In the face of an epidemic, we must be modest, but we must be armed and do everything to be able to fight effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u37	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u38	Mr. Minister of Solidarity and Health, you are beginning to provide some remedies to the glaring shortage of surgical masks and FFP2 from which France still suffers and will suffer for a long time, a shortage which seems to be the cornerstone of our strategy against the Covid-19. What is most affected by caregivers, including in large hospitals, but also liberal doctors, nurses, paramedical professions, all home workers, all those to whom we pay a vibrant tribute, is now also the lack of all other protective equipment – superblouses, charlottes, gloves, hydro-alcoholic gel – but also tensions on reserves and the supply of drugs such as antibiotics, curare or morphine. There is a risk, on the one hand, of loss of chance for some patients and, on the other hand, of profound deficiency in the accompaniment of patients at the end of their life. And there, unlike masks, the regional health agencies – ARS – have not been mobilised. Each appears to be referred to system D. We are witnessing very nice solidarity operations, but such a public health issue would probably require a more coordinated response. The inter-hospital collective asked you yesterday to proceed with requisitions. You mentioned the national strategic stock. Will this allow you to hold on to the end of the crisis? We are probably still only in the rising phase of the crisis. What emergency initiatives do you intend to take to overcome the many shortcomings faced by staff?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u39	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u40	I have largely responded to the masks, but I am aware that I do not give a concrete answer to those who are waiting for them. Nevertheless, we have reported on the difficulties that we are facing and that the caregivers in our territory are suffering as a result. Forty million masks have been destocked for hospitals, EHPADs and home helpers and city medicine – I could mention other front-line actors such as firefighters, specialized educators or emergency shelter workers. The Prime Minister had the opportunity to indicate that French production was oriented towards masks intended for non-caregivers. We continue to regulate the destocking of masks according to the needs expressed in the territories, as deliveries are made – 1.7 billion masks were ordered in France and abroad. These arrive regularly but this is not yet enough to see far enough and, therefore, to be able to increase destocking. With regard to blouses, overblouses, gloves and charlottes, we have also placed orders from all over the world to the countries that produce them, for weeks – I answer without waiting for the question to be asked – and we know the same difficulty as for masks. We are all faced with it, ask our German, Spanish, English, Belgian, Swiss neighbours: everyone needs the same products at the same time, which are made in a country, China, which was hit by the epidemic months before us; the factories were stopped but, even before production resumed, we placed all possible orders abroad to be the first, to better arm the caregivers and to better accompany them. This does not detract from the daily difficulties experienced by caregivers, whom I thank once again for their unwavering commitment, but it provides an explanation of the situation we are experiencing, but also of the strategy of destocking and seeing far away in order to be able to protect in the long term.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u41	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u42	With regard to masks, I acknowledged that things have changed and have been taken in hand. On the other hand, not all other protective equipment seems to have reached hospitals, liberal staff, or nurses. RSAs are not able to respond to this issue in our territory; That's the heart of my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u43	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u44	Prime Minister, you have decided to extend the confinement for two weeks. Of which act. The French are respectful of the instructions in a moment of health peril. Inequalities are not confined. Four million people were ill-housed and 1.3 million people lived in unworthy housing; for them, forced confinement was prison. Containment is also the explosion of domestic violence, mainly experienced by women and children. From the beginning of this exceptional moment, we had expressed fears about your decision-making. We were hoping to be denied; you confirmed them. Indeed, the capitalist blindness that has always guided you is not confined. After refusing us the restoration, even temporary, of the solidarity tax on the fortune, here is your Minister of Public Accounts doing the trick and reinventing the taxes in the form of online vats. To read the content of your orders, which attack labour law and fundamental freedoms, we wonder what you're doing. Rather than preparing for the release of confinement, would you not be laying the groundwork for a new neoliberal shock? Our concern is growing, Prime Minister: did you think the next one? Are you preparing the long process that will open up, that of deconfining? For this, there is no alternative but to test, and this in a massive way, the entire population, knowing that it is necessary to do so now for all the people who work. How many tests are missing? What are our production capacities? Why do you refuse the help of veterinary laboratories, which have been offering it to you for two weeks and could produce hundreds of thousands of tests? We'll also have to confine the patients separately. What accommodation facilities are available? So many unanswered questions. The world after is built now. The bifurcation is started, on other bases, with other principles and other means. The words of the following world are simple: popular sovereignty, planning, requisitions. You say that you won't let anyone say that there has been a delay in taking containment measures: we say so! There has been a delay in the ignition, and if nothing is anticipated, we will soon tell you, and millions of French with us, that there has been a delay in taking the deconfining measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u45	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u46	I apologize, Mrs Panot, but I did not really understand the general meaning of your question. Would you like us to defy the country earlier? I assure you I tried to understand, but in vain. So I will answer you on the elements of your question that I have understood. You are talking about the most fragile audiences: this is an issue that affects me as Minister of Solidarity and Health, affecting our majority, the Government and the French as a whole. Here you give me the opportunity to clarify a number of arrangements that have been made. We will not talk about CAC 40, Mrs Panot, but about fragile, precarious people, who are sometimes hit even harder by an epidemic like that of coronavirus because of their precarious housing conditions, their isolation, or their extremely low income level. I will tell you that we have extended, unconditionally, the benefit of the social minimums for the beneficiaries over an extended period of time, the time to see the end of the epidemic come, and so that no one will be deprived of the RSA – active solidarity income – from the AAH – allowance for disabled adults – from all social benefits. I will also tell you that we have extended the winter truce, which was to end on 31 March, until 31 May, which provides a guarantee of protection for people who are homeless, living in precarious accommodation, or who are in difficulty to pay their rent. I will tell you that we are working hard, together with Julien Denormandie, on all the solutions that make it possible to increase the number of emergency shelters for the precarious, precarious, street-ridden, homeless or migrant audiences, or who simply do not have a decent home to live and pass this crisis in dignified conditions. I will also tell you that we are working with all the NGOs – the Red Cross, Médecins du monde, Médecins sans frontières – and with associations that help fragile audiences, isolated people, and show innovation in solidarity, which nobody doubted, but which is also proving to be extremely effective. The state services thank them and are at their side to carry out with them this fight which, I say, has nothing political, but everything human.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u47	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u48	In this period of state of health emergency, many French people are legitimately concerned. They are concerned that the number of contaminations and new deaths are increasing every day. They are concerned about the risk of congestion in our intensive care and resuscitation services. The risk now concerns the very exhaustion of the stocks of products necessary for resuscitation, whether they be respirators, curare or even oxygen bottles. Air Liquide's initiative to engage in the manufacture of breathers, even before any official request, is salutary, but revealing the absence of a strategist state and national sovereignty. They are concerned about the lack of masks and equipment for our front-line caregivers, both in the hospital sector and in city medicine, and not to mention the liberal nurses. Nor should we forget the helpers at home, the police, the gendarmes, the employees of transport, commerce, funeral directors and many other strategic sectors. The requirement to have 200 million masks per month is not being met. In the face of this situation, political leaders owe transparency to the French, but also show vision. WHO experts agree that one of the keys to success in dealing with this epidemic is the generalization of testing. Unlike France, Germany and South Korea multiplied them very rapidly and isolated the sick. Our country is also lagging behind in this area. Minister, can we hope to have, in the coming days, the first results of the clinical trials currently under way, such as the one entitled Discovery? And can you confirm that in case of identification of an effective molecule to fight the virus, the stocks will be ready to supply the healthcare facilities as soon as possible? This is an essential element for exiting containment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u49	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u50	Mr President, you are comparing France with other countries in terms of testing strategies. You could have compared France with other countries in terms of containment strategy. You would see, I assure you, that France has been very advanced in comparison with all the other countries, that we have even driven a European dynamic, and that we have strongly encouraged countries that were in retreat from these containment policies to join us. You could have followed the interventions of the members of the Government at the various European meetings, such as the European Councils – they are also public. You would have seen that France, together with Germany, Italy, Spain and a few other countries, was one of the first Member States of the European Union to say that the epidemic threat was real and that Europe needed to prepare and arm itself. I believe that comparisons should be made as a whole. I welcome the fact that you have quoted Germany, our German neighbour, which is helping us enormously in this period, which lends us equipment, which is capable of transferring patients from the Greater East region to its national territory and which helps to relieve resuscitation. This European solidarity, which we deeply believe in, which is the beauty of Europe and its harmony, and which means that we are committed to the European ideal, is working to the full, honourable Member. If we did not have Europe, we would not have this very strong support from Germany, and we would not be able to reach out to our Spanish neighbours, with whom we even have a common hospital – located in Catalonia on the French side – or to our Italian neighbours, who are in difficulty. Two days after the emergence of the first sick, I was in Rome, Italy, to reach out to our European neighbours. This European solidarity, I take this opportunity to tell you, helps and saves lives. I will then reply that we did not wait for your intervention, Mr. Member, to ask Air Liquide to work. We did it many weeks ago. Ask the industrialists the question and ask them when we contacted them and when they responded favourably to produce masks, breathers, hydro-alcoholic solutions, medicines. Call the industrial players: they will tell you that we did not wait for you to wake up, MP, to ask for their help and to get into operation for the country and the caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u51	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u53	We continue our session with questions on economic and social issues. Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u54	All economic sectors, all activities, all enterprises, are affected by the crisis. They have heard with hope the proposals of the President of the Republic, but, all my colleagues in the Group of the Republicans and I – I am sure also of the Members sitting on the other benches – are being questioned every day by business leaders telling us that things are, in fact, much more complicated. With regard to the solidarity fund, I welcome your willingness to extend it for the month of April to companies that have lost 50% of their turnover, not 70%. This is a constant demand that the Members of my group, including Éric Woerth, Véronique Louwagie and Nicolas Forissier, had defended in committee. You should apply this rule also for the month of March; It would make no sense to act differently. By way of comparison, which, Mr Prime Minister, will be quite cruel for our country, I would remind you that Germany puts EUR 50 billion net on the table as direct aid for businesses, when we put EUR 1.2 billion, a figure which is 40 times lower. It would therefore be appropriate not to add too much to administrative harassment. For example, with regard to partial unemployment, many cases are not refused, but at least invalidated or challenged by regional business, competition, consumption, labour and employment directorates, for sometimes stupid reasons, such as SIRET numbers that do not work. The State's conflicting injunctions also continue to place certain companies in impossible situations. Some must remain open, while their customers are not allowed to leave their homes! Some devices are also poorly calibrated. I have in mind the example of the restaurateurs, who issue 40-hour contracts per week, but who can only be compensated on the basis of 35 hours, which is obviously a problem for them. Finally, for some sectors, the state's response is not up to the question: I am thinking of tourism players, who are in real danger of cascading bankruptcies, horticulturalists or nursery farmers, whose turnover losses will be resounding. Prime Minister, at a time when the accuracy and credibility of public speech are more important than ever, can you explain in detail how you plan to correct the dysfunctions of current devices?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u55	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u56	Mr President, the mechanism that we are applying to support businesses is a massive one, which responds to hundreds of thousands of companies, and which is immediately operational. Let's talk about the solidarity fund: this, as has been said, foresees the almost automatic payment of 1500 euros in the first days of April by the regional branches of public finance, i.e. by the tax services, to the very small enterprises which claim a 50% drop in their turnover in March; Bruno Le Maire said that this morning. The fund will also cover companies that have had to close as a result of an administrative decision. So things are very simple, and Gérald Darmanin is committed to dealing with these issues extremely quickly. There is also a system of partial unemployment, which is very effective and, I would like to point out, is not equal at European level. More than 8 billion euros are mobilised for businesses, according to rules available on the website of the Ministry of Labour: work-employment.gouv.fr. It is true that hundreds of thousands of companies are currently asking for their numbers, but they have 30 days to do so and the effects of the scheme will be retroactive; So they don't have to worry. The rules are very simple: if the collective agreement provides for a weekly working time of more than 35 hours, partial unemployment will apply. If, for example, it is 39 hours, then it will apply over 39 hours: things are very clear. On the other hand, overtime is not involved. I believe that there is no difficulty in understanding this mechanism. Finally, there is massive support for the economy, through the EUR 300 billion bank guarantee, but also – as we learn from previous crises – the EUR 10 billion guarantee for credit insurers and the EUR 2 billion guarantee for export insurers. The device is therefore very complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u57	Mr Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u58	Let me begin by saying that the MODEM Group associates itself with the condolences which you have presented, Mr President, to the family of our colleague Jean-François Cesarini. We share her grief and pain. This question, prepared by my colleague Vincent Bru, MP for the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, addresses Mrs Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, and is associated with Erwan Balanant, Isabelle Florennes, Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, Philippe Latomb and Laurence Vichnevsky. Madam Secretary of State, and above all, my group wishes to acknowledge the remarkable work done in these difficult times by your administration to our entrepreneurs, employees, traders and self-employed. My colleague Vincent Bru has tried to verify on the ground the assessment of the participation of insurance companies in the fight against the effects of the pandemic, in this war effort which the Government, led by the Prime Minister, is working with goodwill. After several exchanges with the Union des métiers et des industries de l'hôtelière – in particular with its president, Roland Héguy –, with the presidents of the consular chambers, with the departmental federation of construction and public works of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques and with multiple traders, it appears that many of the insurance companies have been denied compensation for the operating losses caused by the Covid-19 epidemic. We are all concerned with this problem in our territories. The EUR 200 million in the Solidarity Fund, granted by the Fédération française de l'assurance, seems to be quite weak in terms of its real capacities. Comparison is not right, but other impulses of generosity have made much higher amounts appear on the front of the stage. As my teachers wrote on my transcripts, "can do better." So, Madam Secretary of State, we ask you to urge the Fédération française de l'assurance to be more involved in the war effort. We also invite you to amend the insurance code, when the crisis is over, so that health disasters can be integrated in the same way as natural disasters. What is your opinion on these two proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u59	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u60	You are right: in this singular moment, everyone – company, individual, industrial – must participate in the war effort against the health crisis. We also expect it from the insurance sector. Recognizing the state of natural disaster would be only modest in scope, since only half of the companies are protected by their contract for loss of operation in this case – as you can imagine, it is often the most structured and the largest, not necessarily the ones that need it most. That is why we have asked assurances to make a contribution to the solidarity fund, because this aid is intended for very small companies, those that really need it. We are also working with industry representatives to ensure that they continue to provide insurance to very small companies that would not be able to pay their premium for the renewal of their contract by the due date. Indeed, nothing would be more delicate than the loss of the benefit of insurance at the time when they are most in difficulty; It would only add complications to the complications. This is the spirit in which we are working, trying to make the insurance sector as contributory as possible, both in the processing of individual business cases and in its commitment to the benefit of the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u61	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u62	Prime Minister, the Socialist and Related Group has made several proposals in the economic field. I note that you have taken over some of them, albeit with a little delay, including the extension of the fund for aid to the TPEs, the very small enterprises, and the elimination of the waiting day for civil servants. I would like to make three other very concrete proposals. The first concerns insurance. As has already been pointed out, many traders, independents and artisans have taken out an operating loss insurance policy: when the state of natural disaster is recognized, insurance compensates for part of the turnover that has not been realized. However, many have been denied such compensation on the grounds that the contract they have signed contains a clause that excludes the pandemic, even if the state of natural disaster is recognized. In 2018, insurers received €2.1 billion in operating loss insurance contributions. Prime Minister, are you, yes or no, willing to make the insurers contribute, following the model of the temporary special contribution you created for all businesses in December 2017? This would bring about €1.4 billion. Let me turn to our second proposal. Many French florets have seen their stock market value collapse in recent days, making them easy prey for foreign investors. It is essential to protect them from predators. The law allows the Minister of Economy and Finance to refuse foreign investment, but only in a few sectors. Are you, yes or no, in favour of extending this prior authorisation scheme to all listed companies and to patent purchases until the end of the state of emergency? The Minister of Economy and Finance would thus be able to control and even prohibit all buyouts – the United States is already doing so. The third point concerns the payment of dividends. The Minister of Economy and Finance called on state-assisted companies not to distribute them. We propose to include it in the law. Would you be, yes or no, okay to do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u63	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u64	Once again, Madam Chair, there are many questions in your question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u65	Three!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u66	Yeah, three, this time. With regard to dividends, we have called for moderation for companies wishing to pay dividends. We have laid down a simple principle: when they request a postponement of the payment of their charges or the guarantee of the State for their bank loans, i.e. when they call on the financial solidarity of the State to hold, we consider that they cannot distribute dividends. That is the rule we have formulated. My point concerns large companies. Indeed, when one refers to companies, one refers to a legal entity, but it covers different realities: the limited liability company employing twelve employees, whose employer often pays more in dividends than in wages, cannot be considered here as the multinational.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u67	On this point, we agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u68	I know you agree with me, but I want to make it clear for possible listeners: the ban I have mentioned concerns large companies. With regard to the use of partial activity, which makes it possible to place employees in partial unemployment, we have also called on companies to exercise restraint. Indeed, we must ensure their stability, including their ownership. They are able to appreciate what needs to be done or not, but we have strongly invited them to moderation, and we believe that the message has been heard. On the subject of foreign investment, we are indeed vigilant – you are right to invite us to be. We would not like to see companies that share national sovereignty or occupy a particular place in the productive economic fabric become, as a result of the decline in their stock market value, the target of foreign investors who would have retained considerable investment capacities and would be in a position to take control of them. You know that there are provisions to ensure that undertakings under national sovereignty are not subject to such raids; We will obviously have recourse to it. As we have indicated, we are also ready, when it appears necessary, to assume our responsibilities in companies whose state is already a shareholder – they too may be the target of such raids. If so, this could go so far as to take control of it; We have not excluded any possibility in this respect. However, to the despair of some perhaps, we cannot of course announce that we will take control of all companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u69	That's not my proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u70	I understand that this is not your proposal, nor your intention. In any case, it seems to us that a prohibition of principle would have more disadvantages than advantages. Therefore, we have not decided to impose such a ban, with an authorization that would become the exception. Nevertheless, the vigilance to which you invite us is necessary; We will ensure that we do not place French companies in a situation of fragility. Finally, you are talking about the participation of insurers in the collective effort. Let us first of all note that they have agreed to participate, to the tune of 200 million euros, in the financing of the solidarity fund created by the Government – the regions making a contribution of 250 million. The Fund thus increased from $1 billion to $1.2 billion. It is also likely, as we have said, that this fund will be required to operate for the month of April too, or even beyond. In this way, I respond incidentally to questions asked earlier: the work on deconfinement is before us, we know it perfectly. It has been engaged in technical, health and economic aspects, but the conditions under which we can de-confine are still under study and depend very largely on the effectiveness of containment and the capacity to accommodate the resuscitation services. Our overall strategy, I would remind you, is to prevent the virus from circulating at such a rate that it would exceed that capacity at the national level. Therefore, the deconfinination should take into account the reality of the decrease in cases of resuscitation. The issue is therefore difficult from a technical, health, economic and, of course, political point of view. None of us, regardless of their political orientation, wants confinement to last too long; We all want to limit it to its narrowest limits. However, I say to those who are wondering about its duration, no one would accept more than deconfination, because it would not have been accompanied by proper preparation, including an appropriate testing policy, translates into an immediate increase in the number of severe cases requiring hospitalization. The reflection on deconfinement is under way, we will have the opportunity to return to it. Experts are working on the issue, health teams are reflecting on its modalities. When the time comes, we will of course answer all the questions on this subject. To return to your proposal, insurers are called upon to participate in the collective effort. You refer to a change, by law, in the meaning of contracts between private persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u71	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u72	In fact, if the contracts provide that in the event of a pandemic, the clauses relating to the state of natural disaster do not apply, a law to revert to this point would intervene in contracts between private persons. This is not impossible, but, as you know, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council has set very strict limits to such intervention, as to the possibility of imposing on certain undertakings a contribution to the financing of social protection, according to criteria which would not be objective in the light of the aim sought. It was also an element that led the Government, when it had had to draw the consequences of previous practices that had been declared unconstitutional, you may recall,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u73	This is precisely the case I referred to!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u74	I know that because we had to find the solution for the refund. We had to target all companies with turnover above a certain threshold, not a category of companies defined according to their purpose. If we want to work on the measure you are referring to, we must obviously check its conformity with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Council, which is extremely demanding. I know you know that, but I think it's useful to remind him again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u75	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u76	On behalf of the IDU Group, I bow to the memory of Patrick Devedjian, Jean-François Cesarini and all the victims of the coronavirus. Since we are in the economic and financial part of the questions to the Government, I want to mention two indispensable actors, even if your previous answers were complete, particularly with regard to operating losses. We make the demands and feelings expressed on the ground heard. In Brittany, where I come from, the economic measures that you have taken are appreciated in good; economic actors welcome them, whether they are artisans, traders, industrialists or independents. However, legitimate questions and concerns remain. The first concerns banks. Beyond the measures that you have taken, can we ask them, in order to bring serenity to our fellow citizens in this crisis, not to apply penalties or complementary interests when a company or individual – for a house – requests a postponement of three or six months, of loan terms? With regard to operating losses, I echo the two previous interventions: it is urgent to work with banks and insurance companies to extend the system provided for in the event of a natural disaster to cases of force majeure such as the one we are experiencing. In other words, we must be able to declare a state of health catastrophe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u77	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u78	I thank you for highlighting the quality of the plan built by the State services, with the support of the local authorities. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the regions, which make an important contribution to the solidarity fund and provide for complementary arrangements to this plan. I would like to return to the issue of insurance, which has been raised by several of you, and in particular the state of health disaster. In this case, you understand, declaring the state of health disaster would not solve the problem, since all insured persons are not covered against this risk. Insurance against this risk is only optional, whereas each of us is necessarily covered by his insurance policy against natural disasters. This helps to protect all French people facing such disasters: they can benefit from reinsurance funds, which are regularly abounded. This situation leads us to change. Consideration needs to be given to the possibility of recognizing a state of health disaster in the future; We must build a system similar to that which prevails in the event of a natural disaster. We have already started the discussion with the assurances on this subject. With regard to banks and maturity carryovers, the situation of individuals and enterprises should be distinguished. Individuals are fairly well protected, thanks to partial unemployment and the schemes for the self-employed – this is in any case the meaning of our action. On the other hand, we need to protect businesses more, hence our involvement with banks. Indeed, many companies no longer have turnover and therefore cannot cope with their expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u79	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u80	Madam Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, in view of the situation, I would like to address this question to you on behalf of all Members of the Freedom and Territory Group. Faced with the economic repercussions of the current crisis, we have voted for massive business support measures, giving you extensive prerogatives. However, we question how these measures are implemented, because of the gap between strong announcements and reality on the ground. Actors in certain sectors often face a terrible adversarial injunction on their own: they must choose between the need to return to work and the need to ensure the safety of employees. The intervention of the Minister of Labour, who stressed the responsibility of entrepreneurs, while protective equipment was lacking, added confusion to the uncertainties. In the construction sector, after the bad times of the first few days, the organizations and the Government have finally started the discussion, around a good practice guide to allow the resumption of construction projects. Promised last week, this guide is very much expected. When will it be published? How many more good practice guides are planned? On the subject of partial unemployment, companies are still bringing back cases of refusal to us today, despite your statements. I am thinking in particular of accountants, notaries and osteopaths. As for the solidarity fund, there are other questions: what happens if the number of eligible companies exceeds the 400000 planned? Will you increase the amount of the envelope or will you tighten the eligibility criteria? Will it be necessary to rely solely on the generosity of the French for an extension, as suggested by the remarks made this morning by the minister of action and public accounts? This question, you understand, is crucial. In response to the numerous requests, including ours, the threshold of eligibility was lowered to 50% of turnover loss by April, and finally also by March, which is a very good thing. However, why not calculate the decrease in activity from March 15, the effective date of confinement, rather than from March 1? On March 31st, the smallest companies are facing up to their deadlines and urgency. They need to be reassured. Can you provide concrete answers to all these questions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u81	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u82	We take the measure, every day, of the reality on the ground, by animating the network of DIRECCTE – regional directorates of companies, of competition, of consumption, of work and of employment – through our contacts with companies and through the CRP – commissioners for restructuring and prevention of the difficulties of companies – who work with companies in difficulty. We are ensuring that none of these companies are left unanswered. Very concretely, with regard to the resumption of work, the Ministry of Labour draws up recommendations, branch by branch, sector by sector. I myself have begun this process for the eighteen industrial sectors; This work also takes place for the drivers, the BTP, the large distribution and all the professions we accompany. I would like to point out the remarkable work of the UIMM – Union of Metallurgy Industries and Trades – which has produced a reference guide for the companies it brings together. It can be used more widely by other companies. I therefore refer you to the work carried out by Muriel Pénicaud and Laurent Pietraszewski, who draw up recommendations by branch, sector by sector, which are available to professionals. The aim is to ensure compliance with distancing rules and barrier actions, regardless of work situations. Indeed, as you have understood, our priority is for employees to be able to return to work in perfect safety – as we are doing today in this House. As for the good practice guide in the construction sector, it is ready, even if it still needs to be finalized. We respond to requests for equipment. The measures we have taken now enable individual equipment, including masks, to be supplied, which are not always necessary if distancing rules and barrier actions are respected, but which are demanded by many employees. We're listening to them. These equipments, which I recall are washable and therefore reusable, are currently available in many companies. If one million masks are produced per day, 5 to 10 million masks can probably be made available to professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u83	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u84	Ms. Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance, community and union leaders ask the Government to make an order preventing all large companies from paying dividends or bonuses to their president and chief executive officer in 2020, or making stock buybacks. The members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left support this request. The Minister of Economy and Finance, Mr Le Maire, called on companies to show civicism and moderation, with words that have the merit of pointing to a scandal. However, do you believe in it yourself? It would be incomprehensible that companies benefiting from emergency measures continue to pay record dividends, even though some of their employees receive only 84% of their wages. On the one hand, the Council of Ministers has made orders that tend to limit workers' rights, putting the cost of the economic recession at the lowest. On the other hand, Mr Le Maire calls for a new capitalism, more anxious to fight inequality. Others had previously stated that they wanted to moralize capitalism. But it is to forget that voraciousness is its engine. Multinationals are taught a lesson in morality; to the workers, sacrifices are imposed engraved in the law. Those who carry out the most vital and vital tasks are also the least well paid. I'm thinking about caregivers, cashiers, civil servants, farmers, drivers, kindergarten assistants, and I'm going through with it. They do not demand a monument, they just demand their dues: justice, dignity, equality. The large companies have all now regained their level of profitability prior to 2008, at the cost of the breakdown of the public service, particularly hospital, and of the deepening of inequalities. Madam Secretary of State, take the necessary action. How, if not, can you imagine the next one? How can we guarantee social and environmental justice without these means? Can we imagine that this crazy race for profit does not have its share of responsibility in the multiple, cascading crises that we are experiencing? Are you prepared to take strict measures to prohibit the payment of these dividends?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u85	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u86	In the current context, it is essential for everyone to provide their share of the effort, to the extent of their means, including businesses. For companies, participating means continuing to operate the country and helping to fight coronavirus. This is exactly what dozens, hundreds of them do, by distributing hydro-alcoholic gel without taking any margin, by producing breathers without passing on development costs, such as Air Liquide, or by making pro bono resources available. I will not draw up the long list of small, medium and very large companies, such as LVMH, Air Liquide, PSA or other companies of the CAC40, which you aim at in your remarks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u87	I'm talking to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u88	...as they accompany hospital services. For companies, participation is also not to resort to state support when they do not need it. This is an essential principle; We have to stick to it again. For a company, participating is also – I think we will find ourselves on this point – devoting its resources to maintaining the production tool, investing in this tool at the time of restarting and investing in the skills of employees. In this regard, large companies have already indicated that they would not pay dividends in 2020. This is the case for Airbus and Safran, within CAC40, JCDecaux, Europcar and CNP Assurances, within SBF120, and 70% of Middlenext companies. Moreover, it is clearly not possible for the State, through its guarantees and cash flow, to support companies that pay dividends. There is no question of State guarantees financing dividends. A commitment has been made: companies that will use the schemes proposed by the State will not pay dividends and will not buy back shares; They will also have to reduce the overall remuneration of their managers by 25 per cent. Failing this, they will have to repay the amounts collected and pay late payment penalties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u89	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u90	Prime Minister, allow me to report a rather vile anecdote. As soon as yesterday, I had on the phone the head of a company in my department, TIB, one of the three French manufacturers of emergency vehicles and victim assistance – VSAV – the leader in the provision of ambulances to emergency medical aid services, the UAS. He told me of his stupefaction: the Paris Public Hospital Assistance is about to award this week a market of about 100 ambulances to a Polish manufacturer, since no criteria for sustainable development have been set in the call for tenders. How long is this going to last? How long will we remain the idiots of the planetary village? How can we fail to see, through this crisis itself, that the knowledge and protection by the State of the French industrial tool is a decisive factor in its ability to react to crises? The Republicans are not in favour of a national economic downturn. Our industry and agriculture need to look to the world; It's all their history, it's the source of their greatness and the wealth of our country. But let's stop allowing the productive apparatus to melt, through mergers and acquisitions that sacrifice our industrial tool. Let's stop believing that investors don't have passports, as I've heard so often in the last two years. We are paying the price today. Prime Minister, at a time when even the big distribution advises you to buy French, are you going to ask your services to finally change software and support our industries through their purchases?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u91	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u92	Fortunately, we did not wait for this crisis to see the importance of industry and make it a central element of our economic policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u93	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u94	It is this government, I would remind you, that has made it possible to recreate industrial employment in France. As you know, between 2000 and 2016, the French industrial apparatus had been broken, and 1 million industrial jobs had been abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u95	Who was then minister of the economy?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u96	In 2017, 2018 and 2019, we recreated industrial employment; It's the facts. In 2018, France was the first European country for foreign investment in industrial projects, on the highest step of the podium with 330 projects, against 150 in Germany and 200 in Turkey; These are the facts, and that is how we continue to work. How did we mobilize the industry to produce respirators and masks? How do we mobilize it today to produce drugs or blouses?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u97	What about ambulances? What about SVAVs? Be concrete!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u98	Everyone is at work, and I want to thank here the teams of the Enterprise Directorate-General and the Health Directorate-General, who, I can tell you, buy French when they can. I'm coming to your question. Since last June, we have been leading a committee of public and private buyers to include mandatory social and environmental clauses in all public contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u99	You're not heard, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u100	So we did not wait for this crisis. These clauses are intended to be included in the general administrative clauses. The productive pact, due to be presented in April 2020, has been delayed, but it is clearly one of its structuring elements. I believe that the crisis that we are going through will further strengthen these mechanisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u101	Mr Olivier Marleix has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u102	Obviously, Madam Secretary of State, you were not heard; I therefore invite you to pass this message back to the AP-HP. On the other hand – I will try to say it calmly in the circumstances – those who let Alstom, Alcatel and Technip run and who planned the privatisation of Paris airports and the dismantling of EDF and GDF are not in the best position to reassure us as to the attention they pay to economic patriotism and the French industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u104	We conclude this session with questions on various topics, still related to the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u105	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u106	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I am asking you this question on behalf of my colleague Adrien Morenas. Yves Daniel is a partner. While the health crisis of the Covid-19 strikes our countries, our farmers, the hero of everyday life, do not disarm; They continue to fulfill, at all costs, their vital mission: to feed us. Agricultural disasters in some departments, lack of labour, closures of food markets, falling demand for fresh products while spring arrives, the list is long. At the other end of the supply chain, the French sometimes fear food shortages. In view of this unprecedented state of health and economic crisis, Adrien Morenas wishes to ask you the following questions: How does the Government intend to help our farmers, the essential locomotive of our supply chain? In particular, what measures does it intend to take to encourage the employment of seasonal workers, to support the sectors and to control the national market in the face of financial drifts in prices? Finally, is he considering making arrangements for banks and insurance to support our farmers, whose task is never easy? Minister, can you reassure the French again about our collective capacity to ensure the sustainability of food supply chains?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u107	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u108	I can tell you now, there will be no food shortage in our country. Our first priority, of course, is the fight for the health of our citizens, to which the Prime Minister and the Minister of Solidarity and Health devote themselves day and night; They seek to reassure our fellow citizens and take the measures that will make it possible to win the war against the Covid-19. The second priority is for our citizens to be able to feed themselves in the most diverse and balanced way possible. This is the whole role of the "second line", in the words of the President of the Republic. You mentioned the farmers, and I want to greet them. They are sometimes unfairly criticized. But we realize that we need them to produce quality food. Our responsibility is to ensure that the entire food chain holds, and it holds. After the farmers, I would like to pay tribute to intermediate agri-food companies, SMEs, TPEs and agricultural cooperatives. They are sometimes pointed out. At the moment, however, they often work in three eight, day and night. I want to pay tribute to all these workers of the shadows, who are at their post to transform the products of agriculture and send them to our plates. Finally, downstream of this chain, there are all local food shops, as well as large and medium-sized areas, which are sometimes vilipendous. Today, they act and make things work. I want to greet all their employees, cashiers like those who put the products on the shelf. Without them, the food chain would not stand. There will be no food shortage, because production is there. The food chain holds and will not be broken. The Government – Bruno Le Maire, Jean-Baptiste Djebbari and I – works every day to ensure this continuity, especially in logistics and transport. With Muriel Pénicaud and Bruno Le Maire, we have created a platform for our fellow citizens who would like to work in agriculture, in a framework respectful of health security measures. Finally, I called on the European Union to help our sectors in difficulty, particularly fisheries and horticulture. I will have the opportunity to come back in more detail in the near future. Be assured, honourable Member, that there will be no food shortage and that the food chain is holding. Our citizens must eat fish, fresh produce, fruit and vegetables. The Prime Minister has decided to close the markets as a security measure. Those who reopen do so in accordance with the rules of social distancing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u109	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u110	Minister of the Interior, let me read you a question from Sophie Auconie, Member of Parliament for Indre-et-Loire, member of the IDU group, Act and Independents. For some or some of us, adults and children, confinement is a nightmare; the home simply becomes the place of their "legal sequestration". Ten days after the beginning of confinement, the gendarmerie's response to domestic violence had increased by 32 per cent. The services of the 3919 are maintained, and we thank the listeners who are continuing their mission very much. This emergency number is open from Monday to Saturday, from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., at the same times as pharmacies, which have taken the initiative – we welcome it – to help the victims. Unfortunately, as we know, violence occurs mostly in the evenings and on weekends. While the national message is "stay at home", we must be vigilant and remind all victims of violence that, if it is forbidden to leave, it is allowed to flee. However, minister, how can we escape a violent spouse – especially with children – when relatives who are likely to offer shelter are far away, when transportation is random, when emergency accommodation is structurally overburdened and can hardly guarantee proper security in the face of the virus? Similarly, while victim support can still be provided by the police, is it still possible, given the state of the hospitals, to have medical reports of beatings and sexual abuse made there? The freezing count of the daily victims of coronavirus replaced that of femicides. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] We are aware of the Government's commitment and recent progress in this regard. What means do you intend to use urgently to protect these victims from their tyrant?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u111	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u112	Containment is necessary to fight the Covid-19, but it is also, you are right, a soil that can lead to domestic violence. Of course, we must fight this violence on a permanent basis. As two questions relate to the subject, I will refer to the Ministry of the Interior's direct response after reaffirming the inter-ministerial fight that we must wage, under the Prime Minister's authority, in all relevant areas, against risk, suffering and violence. It is obvious that we must act in the most cross-cutting way possible. That is why Marlène Schiappa, Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and for Combating Discrimination, mentioned yesterday a plan of action mobilising more than EUR 1 million to accompany associations present on the ground, alongside the victims, and to increase the number of places in the hotels, either to keep the violent spouse away or to protect the victims who wish to do so – because, you are right, it is urgent to provide answers in this regard. Marlène Schiappa also mentioned the need to create accompanying points in everyday places, so that a woman who is a victim of violence can, even though she is locked up at home, take advantage of an exit to give the alert. Similarly, the action of Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, with whom we had a working meeting this morning, concerns the support of children within families to combat abuse. Collective vigilance should be promoted and the call number 119 should be made known so that every child victim can raise an alert cry and be protected. Finally, the guard of the seals recalled that there was no question of lowering the guard. This is an absolute principle, even in the midst of the fight against the Covid-19. We must mobilize justice to deal with domestic violence cases. These remain a priority for immediate appearance hearings. These are some elements of the answer, which I will complete by answering the following question. We must ensure that silence is never the accomplice of the inacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u113	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u114	Mr Minister of the Interior, I would like to ask you a question about domestic and domestic violence, which is indeed close to that posed by Thierry Benoit. My colleague Guillaume Gouffier-Cha joins us. During this period of confinement, tensions in the homes can increase. Promiscuity in homes, the absence of valves and loopholes, addictive pipes inevitably aggravate fragile situations. Women and children are the first potential victims. That is why it is essential to maintain more than ever our mobilization against domestic and domestic violence. While these victims will encounter difficulties in protecting themselves or fleeing such violence, how can they end their ordeal and how can they act against the perpetrators? How can we make it possible for these women and children to call for help, despite the constraints of exit imposed by the confinement and the omnipresence of their aggressor? How can we, above all, accompany families to prevent this risk and prevent a degraded situation from slipping into violence? How can we free speech and appease conflict situations in our homes? Finally, Minister, how can every citizen help these people? Even in times of confinement, it is our common duty not to close our eyes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u115	The next speaker is the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u116	We must all be mobilized, but the Ministry of the Interior obviously has a particular responsibility: to respond to emergencies. Thierry Benoit recalled, I said last week that interventions for domestic violence had increased by 32 per cent in the gendarmerie and 36 per cent in the Paris police prefecture area. As interpretations of these figures have been made, it should be pointed out that this is the increase not in violence, but in the number of interventions by the internal security forces. We need to go even further, given the exceptional circumstances that you are referring to. Of course, there is the Internet platform, a constantly open reporting portal, with police officers or gendarmes who respond 24 hours a day to the solicitations. As early as last week, I sent specific instructions to police and gendarmes to implement a number of measures, including calls for initiative. This is not the usual practice, but a police officer or gendarmerie can call a woman who is known to be at risk, even if a judicial proceeding has not separated her from her spouse, and even if she has not wanted to file a complaint. A call, an alert or an emergency, and we're intervening. This was the case yesterday in the commune of Annœullin: during a badin appeal, the gendarme understood that there was a risk; the gendarmes intervened and we made available to justice a violent husband with a view to an immediate appearance. Together with the National Order of Pharmacists, we have called for the mobilization of pharmacies. In this nearby place, it is possible to give an alert. The instructions are simple: pharmacists must immediately call the internal security forces, police or gendarmes, who intervene immediately – clear instructions have been given to this effect. Yesterday in Nancy, one case was reported, and our forces were able to intervene without delay. We need to go even further, because it is sometimes impossible to get out or access the Internet platform. In connection with my colleagues in the Government, we will open, from tomorrow, 1 April, the possibility of giving the alert by simple text and thus triggering the intervention of the internal security forces. This measure was developed with Laurent Wauquiez, president of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, who had informed me of the availability of the number 114, a platform managed by hospital services in Grenoble. I repeat, it will now be possible to give the alert by sending a simple text to 114. In no case should confinement prevent us from combating domestic and domestic violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u117	Mrs Charlotte Lecocq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u118	Mr Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, on behalf of my colleague Anne Genetet, I would like to address this question to you concerning the situation of French people stranded abroad. Roland Lescure and Christophe Di Pompeo join in. The pandemic concerns all countries. To limit its spread, many have closed their borders without notice, brutally plunging more than 130,000 of our compatriots into the impossibility of returning to France. The officials of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs responded to this complex and sudden situation with admirable self-denial and composure. They are the honour of France, and Mrs Genetet would like to thank them on behalf of the national representative. On 31 March, they ensured the return of more than 100,000 French "passing" nationals, on tourist or professional trips. As they redouble their efforts to build solutions, Anne Genetet would like to point out that, despite your demand for moderation, some airlines have, opportunistically, sought to take advantage of the situation by practicing economy class prices far higher than ordinary fares. This is unacceptable. You said it yourself, minister, we will remember it – and so will the French. Anne Genetet asks you the following three questions. What means does the State use to bring these compatriots who are still stranded abroad back to France? What power does it have in its negotiations with airlines to offer commercial flights at a cost? Finally, how can France help the other shipwrecked Covid-19s, our compatriots, who lost their residence permits because they were linked to a job brutally removed by the crisis, especially young people with a working holiday visa in Australia and New Zealand, many of whom are now without resources?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u119	The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u120	You described the situation: the abrupt closure of airports, borders and airspace, and the gradual disappearance of regular airlines. As a result, 130,000 of our compatriots suddenly found themselves blocked in more than 140 countries, without the possibility of reacting quickly. I am thinking in particular of the 20,000 French people still present in Morocco ten days ago. It should be noted that each country presents complex problems. We have therefore established an exceptional arrangement – it was indispensable – based on the close cooperation of the Ministry responsible for transport, the crisis centre of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs and Air France, whose availability and cooperation I welcome. This enables scheduled flights to be maintained as far as possible, subject to authorization on a case-by-case basis, and to create special flights at moderate prices. It also allows the state to charter flights in the countries concerned, including domestic flights when French people are outside the capital – I am thinking in particular of the Philippines and Peru. Last night, some 10,000 of our compatriots were still unable to return to France, but we will go to the end: each situation will be answered, even if it sometimes takes time because some cases are complex – I am thinking of Vanuatu, Nepal or Guatemala. As for the question of French holders of a work holiday permit in Australia and New Zealand, it is different: these persons are not counted in the above mentioned 130000 French. I will raise this issue with Mrs Genetet. We will find solutions so that these young people do not suffer too serious consequences because of the containment decided in these two countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u121	We have completed the questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u122	I received, pursuant to articles L.O. 176 and L.O. 179 of the Electoral Code, a communication from the Minister of the Interior dated 30 March 2020 informing me of the replacement of our late colleague Jean-François Cesarini by Mrs Souad Zitouni.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-31-O1190.u123	Next sitting, Tuesday, 7 April 2020, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. The meeting is adjourned.
