ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill by Mr. Philippe Gomès and several of his colleagues to allow the compulsory inclusion on the special list of electors in the consultation on the accession to the full sovereignty of New Caledonia (No. 2500, 2612).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u2	This morning, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u3	Here we are considering a proposal for an organic law on the organization of the next consultation on self-determination in New Caledonia. This second vote, which will take place on 6 September, is a victory for sincere Republicans and peacemakers – all those who do not want the strength of the facts or weapons to prevail. The subject is indisputably sensitive or tearing. The history of New Caledonia has often been painful. Colonized by the Empire, it was a place of banishment for the commoners; The great Louise Michel ended her life there as a teacher of the people, for which she fought all her life. Then the deportees of Algeria were sent to the island, victims of another colonial history whose scars were not yet closed. The path to self-determination was sown with many violences and brutalitys that too long bloodshed the Great Earth, the families of Ouvéa, Tiga, Maré, Lifou, Poum, Tio, Koné, Bourail or Nouméa. Yes, it took much suffering before the Matignon Accords in 1988 and the Nouméa Accord in 1998, which paved a peaceful way for the recognition of New Caledonia's right to self-government. In accordance with these agreements, a first referendum, held on 4 November 2018, gave a majority against independence. Therefore, a new consultation is to be held this year. A third vote will be held if the September result still gives a majority for the status quo. The arrangements for participation in the next referendum were established by the 19th Committee of the signatories of the Nouméa Accord, which has been recalled several times this morning. They provide for different rules for registration on the special voters list for electors under ordinary law and those under customary law. It was a request from the representatives of the independent Kanaks. In return, they agreed to a delay in the date of the election, which was a requirement of the anti-independenceists. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] The proposal for an organic law asks us to come back to this point. The problem is there. In March 2018, we passed here a bill defining the modalities for organizing the November 4, 2018 referendum, which endorsed the agreement reached at the cost of many difficulties at the sixteenth committee of signatories. The unsubs therefore decided to trust those directly concerned by the Government of New Caledonia. This time again, they will do the same. Given the sensitive nature of the subject, we will vote against the proposal for an organic law, which seems to us to call into question points of agreement which are difficult to obtain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u4	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u5	Since the 1980s, New Caledonia has been a territory engaged in a process of empowerment, following the Matignon Accords and then the Nouméa Accord. The Council adopted the principle of a referendum on the accession to full sovereignty of New Caledonia, the modalities of which were subsequently laid down in the Organic Law of 19 March 1999. A specific electoral body has been defined: only those interested in voting will be able to participate in the referendum – conditions of birth or residence, possession of material and moral interests. On 4 November 2018, a first referendum resulted in the rejection of the accession to full sovereignty, at more than 56%. In accordance with the Nouméa agreement, almost all of the elected members of the Congress of New Caledonia requested the holding of the second referendum, which was scheduled for 6 September 2020. The proposal for an organic law that you have tabled, Mr rapporteur, consists of a single article which aims to amend the organic law of 19 March 1999 in order to extend the derogation provided for by it to referenda to be held in 2020 and 2022. The aim is to include on the special electoral list the natives of New Caledonia, who are presumed to have the centre of their material and moral interests, in the consultation on the accession to full sovereignty, once they have been permanently domiciled there for three years. In accordance with its position in committee, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will not vote for the IUD, Act and Independent Group's bill. It appears that the continuation of the derogation has not been requested or validated by the Committee of Signatories, the body responsible for monitoring the Nouméa Agreement. Moreover, the adoption of this text would lead to a postponement of the referendum scheduled for September, while this date was the result of a compromise reached in October 2019 between the independents and the non-independences. Mr rapporteur, on the problem of the postponement of the referendum, you referred in committee to the opinion of the Council of State that the referendum should be held before 3 November 2020 and could therefore be postponed until that deadline. But this is a legal possibility. The MODEM Group wishes strict compliance with the agreements or compromises reached between the main parties concerned; Indeed, the date of September 3 is the result of such a compromise. Given the sensitivity of the issues raised by all speakers, it does not appear appropriate for the national legislator to interfere in the process, in the absence of local consensus on the issue. The derogation allowing for the compulsory registration on the special electoral list of persons under ordinary law, who were natives of New Caledonia and had the centre of their material and moral interests, had been provided only for the first referendum in 2018, and the committee of signatories did not wish to renew it. For these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will vote against this bill, in accordance with its position in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u6	Mrs. George Pau-Langevin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u7	New Caledonia is one of the ultramarine territories attached to France since 1853. With overseas status since 1946, this archipelago with exceptional natural and mineral resources has experienced significant political tensions around the question of its access to independence. The history of the 1980s has been marked by great instability and violence that no one wishes to see again. It was the Matignon Accords signed in 1988 under the auspices of Michel Rocard, reinforced by the Nouméa Accord of 5 May 1998, that brought a calmed institutional situation to New Caledonia. The preamble to the Nouméa Accord – a very beautiful text – recalls the genesis of the drama: "When France took possession of the Grande Terre [...], on 24 September 1853, it appropriated a territory according to the conditions of international law then recognized by the nations of Europe and America, it did not establish legal relations with the indigenous population. [...] But this territory was not empty. The Great Land and the islands were inhabited by men and women who were called kanak. They had developed a civilization of their own, with their traditions and languages. We know that then the victims of history came with the gallows, then the workers in large numbers, attracted by the nickel boom. The text of the Nouméa Accord continued: "The time has come to recognize the shadows of the colonial period, even if it was not without light. » We are therefore well placed in a peaceful process of decolonization, carried out under the close watch of the United Nations – the United Nations – and we must respect this basic idea. The Nouméa agreement provided that only voters on a special list, meeting precisely defined criteria – with three different electoral bodies, including the special list of electors – could participate in the consultation on New Caledonia's accession to full sovereignty. The approach taken unanimously since the agreement has been to resolve the difficulties encountered in the Committee of Signatories and to move towards consultation by seeking as much consensus as possible between the various actors. The 19th Committee of Signatories, which was held on Thursday, 10 October 2019 in Matignon, proposed to renew the entire operational mechanism created for the first referendum, with some technical adjustments. With regard to the electoral corps, it was stated that automatic registration on the special list should be extended only for voters of customary status, while voters under ordinary law, i.e. non-Kanaks born in New Caledonia and residing in New Caledonia for more than three years, were not registered on their own, but had to register there, which did not call into question their right to vote. The Partners' Committee, which had dealt with this difficulty, proposed a solution. The Prime Minister suggested that non-Kanaks born in New Caledonia and residing there for more than three years should be identified and contacted personally for the purpose of listing. This has been done: a large number of people have been contacted, which ultimately reduces to few people those who live on the island and have not done the registration process. Together, Caledonia took note of this proposal. However, the rule in the committees of the signatories has always been not to call into question the compromises reached.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u9	Our colleague Philippe Gomès, whose contribution to the process in New Caledonia is quite important, is always the first to remind us that we must always be concerned about the day after and, therefore, not go into force and take measures acceptable to all. That is the rule that we will respect, parliamentarians of all sides, who are committed to leading New Caledonia until the second consultation under conditions as calmed and unquestionable as possible. [[Mr. Moetai Brother and Mr. Paul Molac applaud]] The Socialist and Related Group will not vote in favour of this text, but will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u10	The general discussion is closed. On the single article of the proposed organic law, I am seized by the group IUD, Acting and independent of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Philippe Gomès, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u11	I thank the Government and the colleagues who, under the various groups, have expressed their sentiments on this sensitive subject, which concerns a country to which I obviously care a lot. Madam Minister for Overseas Affairs, I would like to make a few comments to shed more light on the reality of things. Congress delivered a unanimous opinion on the bill, which was then passed almost unanimously by the National Assembly and the Senate. This unanimous opinion from Congress corrects – I insist – the consensus of the committee of signatories found in November 2017. At the end of this consensus, the system for the registration of common-law and customary natives on the general list of electors and then on the referendum list applied to all three consultations. That is the content of the statement of conclusions, that is the consensus reached under the then Prime Minister's presidency. Only here, a few weeks later, when we met at the Congress of New Caledonia to give our opinion on the preliminary draft organic law reflecting this consensus, the Caledonian Union, which had acquired this consensus at the committee of signatories, came back to the political agreement it had given...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u12	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u13	... and considered that it could not give a favourable opinion to the draft organic law. Why? Because within the Caledonian Union, there are the leaders and there is the base.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u14	Like the CGT!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u15	The base, gas, refers to those to whom accountability is to be made. Often, when leaders come back after having been able to find consensus in the Parisian air, they find it difficult to explain them locally. That's why I find it very difficult to accept that we have to come back. At the Congress of New Caledonia, we spent twenty-six hours in two committees and in a public meeting trying to get the Caledonian Union to give a favourable opinion. How can we proceed to this first consultation, which will decide on our possible exit from the Republic – this is not a small decision on a country-wide basis – without the Caledonian Union, i.e. one of the two independent parties, agreeing on the procedure for registration on its own initiative? Thanks to the sense of responsibility of all non-independence formations, we unanimously adopted a system that limits the compulsory registration of ordinary-law natives in the 2018 referendum, based on two considerations: the stakes are too important for us to disagree with this consultation; It is better to agree on difficult and sometimes unbalanced consensus than to send public forces to New Caledonia to maintain order. In addition, some independents wondered about a mechanism for further consultations when, according to them, there would be only one, given the access to independence as of November 4, 2018. Moreover, the other consultations were not certain: in order to initiate the second and, if necessary, the third consultation, it is necessary, I would remind you, that one third of the members of Congress request it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u16	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u17	Otherwise, the Nouméa agreement provides that the political partners "will meet to examine the situation thus created". Clearly, we get around the table and try to collectively see how to get out of it. That is how, at that time in history, a balance was found between independenceists and non-independenceists, in the interests of France and New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u18	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u19	However, on the occasion of the debate, a white stone had been laid humbly by your rapporteur, who also happens to be, by extraordinary, a member of the Congress of New Caledonia. I had stated: "The Congress must decide between a particularly constrained framework, that is to say, only once the compulsory registration on the general list of electors and on the special list of electors for consultation, in accordance with the agreement reached in the committee of signatories, or a slippery exceptional framework, meaning that procedures for registration of its own motion would be provided before each consultation, those held in 2020 and 2022. I recalled that every consultation can only be initiated at the written request of a third of the members of Congress. In its opinion, Congress had considered that, "if necessary, further amendments to the statutory organic law could be provided for in the framework of a dedicated organic bill [which could] give a slippery character to this measure at a later stage". We had therefore determined the balance in order to pass this consultation on self-determination of 4 November 2018 under the best conditions, while at the same time indicating that, if another consultation was organised, we would not fail to ask that the compulsory registration of common-law natives be renewed, as is the case with natives of customary law. A second subject seems important to me in the Minister's speech: the figures. I did not invent these figures, they came from the meeting held at the High Commission on 10 January. Several categories of persons, ordinary-law natives, have been identified. The first corresponds to the ordinary-law natives who were on the 2017 general list of electors and did not meet the conditions in 2018 but who can meet them in 2020 if they report three years of residence. In this first category, 941 people were identified and contacted but only 228 of them withdrew the mail. Remember that in the Committee of Signatories, the Prime Minister proposed an alternative procedure to ex officio registration, saying that it would have "the same effects" as ex officio registration. When one sees that 228 mails were withdrawn out of the 941 that were sent, it cannot be said that the effects are identical to the procedure of ex officio registration...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u20	Less than 700!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u21	A second category consists of 1,606, newly identified ordinary-law natives on social files, 553 of whom had an untapped address. Of the 1053 letters sent, 442 were not claimed and 103 were not distributed, i.e. more than half. The third category includes the young adults on the special list of electors for the provincial elections, who will be able to present the necessary material and moral interests for inclusion in the referendum list. The situation of young adults under customary law will be the same as that of adults under customary law: as soon as they are included in the general list, they will automatically be included in the referendum list. On the other hand, young ordinary law adults on the general list will not automatically be included in the referendum list: to be included in the referendum list, they will first have to register on the provincial list. These are the numbers. Some 5000 Caledonians are potentially ex officio eligible for registration on the referendum list because they are natives of ordinary law. Let us imagine that once the final balance sheet has been drawn up, we find that 1000 or 2000 of them did not vote because they could not register. Do you consider it conceivable that people born in the country cannot participate in the referendum on the future of their country, whether or not it remains in the Republic?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u22	That's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u23	Beyond the results and the final results that I look forward to, this is obviously something that can hardly be accepted. With regard to the date of the referendum, which was put forward as a win-win element...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u24	Mr rapporteur, please excuse me for interrupting. Although legitimate, your answer should not exceed the speaking time you had at the time of your presentation. I therefore invite you to be a little more concise and to move towards your conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u25	[[Laughs]] I was told that the rapporteur was not subject to a time limit. I must have been misinformed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u26	It is likely that you did not hear the information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u27	[[New laughter]] An opposition manoeuvre? I will try to be a little more concise, knowing that the key comments I wish to respond to have been made by the minister. With regard to the referendum, we are told that the date of 6 September 2020 cannot be respected if we adopt the bill. According to the Council of State, it is possible to organise it until 3 November 2020. We therefore have the necessary weeks to carry out any necessary revisions. I would like to thank our colleague Jean-Christophe Lagarde, who has rightly indicated that the scheme planned for 6 September 2020 creates two categories of Caledonian citizens, whereas the Nouméa agreement provides for only one. If there are two categories of Caledonian citizens, we may encounter reluctance to accept the outcome of the referendum. Our colleague Paul Molac spoke of a decision taken by the Committee of the Signatories, of a compromise reached, of a common position adopted. That's nenni! The Committee of Signatories has not decided anything. This is the first time since the slippery and frozen electoral corps case that it has failed to reach an agreement. The committee of signatories said exactly this: the non-independenceist formations "considers it unacceptable that there should be a difference in treatment with regard to the entry on the referendum list between persons of customary status and persons under ordinary law. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u28	Read the rest!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u29	He added: "As such, [they] requested, as in 2018, an amendment to the Organic Law, aimed at automatically registering natives with a three-year residency period. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u30	And then what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u31	If this is a consensus, I no longer know how to draft the statements of conclusions... Then, as the minister pointed out, he added: "The Future in Trust and Caledonia together take note of the proposal made by the State. What can we do other than take note of it? We don't approve of it, we don't support it, we don't share it! We take note of it because it's a fact! Since this is the Prime Minister's proposal, what can we do? [[Laughs]] I'm coming to Mr. Gosselin's speech... by speeding up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u32	I will ask you to do more than speed up, rapporteur: if you do not want me to interrupt you, you will have to conclude, because you have had the floor for 12 minutes and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u33	I do not want to be disrespectful of colleagues who have spoken on this very important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u34	Without a doubt, Mr Gomès, but you know that the day is reserved for the work of the IDU-Agir Group, and we will have to move forward in the discussion. The rapporteur's reply time is used, but it is not necessarily used. You have the opportunity to conclude, if you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to thank my colleague Philippe Gosselin for stressing the need for a sincerity of the vote. On November 4, 2018, the election was validated, accepted by all, at the local, regional, national and international levels. This will not be the case with the September 6, 2020 vote, because the channel that feeds the independence vote is maintained while the channel that fed the non-independence vote has been blocked. According to Naïma Moutchou, the date of the referendum was established for legal and non-political reasons. But nothing prevents, politically, this date from being moved to 3 November 2020; It does not pose any difficulty. [[Smile]] [[Applause on several benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups]] These are, in a few words, the complementary elements that I wanted to bring to my colleagues and to the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u36	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u37	[[Laughs]] I promise you to be as short as the rapporteur... Before I respond to the concerns he has deemed legitimate, I want to make some clarifications. I say that there is no discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u38	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u39	The special list of electors for the consultation on the accession to full sovereignty was made up of 90 per cent by automatic or ex officio registrations. However, there are no 90% of voters of customary civil status, let us recall. So let's be measured...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u40	We've been very measured!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u41	... and let us avoid remarks, such as those I have heard, that unwarrantedly stir up fears. The young adults, of whom you have spoken, the rapporteur, are counted: there are 2877 – we are not in a battle of numbers, but it is good to be precise. These young people are not subject to customary law and yet many of them – as you yourself pointed out – will be registered on their own. Moreover, the criterion you wish to restore could not be applied to them: even if your text were adopted, it would have no effect on these 2877 young people. The figure of 5000 Caledonians is therefore totally false; It must be stopped, which nourishes fears and rumours, including in the Caledonian territory. Indeed, this is not a debate of figures, nor is it a technical debate. This is a real political debate, Mr Gomès, and you know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u42	A debate on principles!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u43	And it is precisely in the interest of the text to open a political debate, a legitimate debate. But this debate is not based on the fact that the State's commitments have not been respected or on the fact that the High Commissioner of the Republic has failed to raise awareness among all those concerned. This is not the case since you filed your PLP in December 2019, that is, well before the January 10, 2020 meeting. This text is therefore a political act. This debate is nonetheless legitimate, but let us be sincere about the purpose of your initiative. It is also important to remember that this is not a legal debate either – Mrs Moutchou stressed this by referring to the position of the Council of State and that of the Constitutional Council. Our duty vis-à-vis democracy and the people of Caledonia is to guarantee the sincerity of the votes, which the State has endeavoured to do in the first election and what it will still do in the second. [[Ms. NaïmaMoutchoupplaudited]] In this regard, I want to say to you that the statements that the election would be tainted by a risk of insinuity threaten, as of today, to break the balance that we have taken thirty years to build. Their authors should pay attention to what they say, because, locally, we work in trust and transparency, through dialogue and consensus, which is essential. It is my role to recall it, a role that I hold with humility and respect, because New Caledonia deserves it, the fight for peace for thirty years deserves it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u44	All right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u45	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Moetai Brothers and Mr Paul Molac also applaud]] But you have raised another political issue, Mr rapporteur. Who is the guarantor of the Caledonian consensus: the committee of the signatories of the Nouméa agreement? Congress of New Caledonia? the Parliament of the Republic? I want to repeat: it is all together that we must work towards consensus. So we're starting from the last consensus. You were right to say that, Mr Gomès, the point of balance we have reached is the result of hours and hours of discussion – it is inevitable and it is very good, because it is through dialogue that we have managed to maintain peace. This balance has not changed; There are no new ones! It is the result of a text adopted unanimously by Congress and which we will apply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u46	I put to the vote the single article in the draft organic law, in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u47	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 64 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 22 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u48	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Thierry Benoit and others to prohibit the cumulation of a retirement pension and an activity allowance for persons appointed to the Constitutional Council and State agencies (No. 1803 corrected, 2613). Mr Thierry Benoit, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u49	We have now come together, after a traditional legislative marathon, to consider a bill to prohibit the cumulation of a retirement pension and an activity allowance for persons appointed to the Constitutional Council and State agencies. To begin with, I will present to you the general and historical framework of this bill, co-signed by more than 160 parliamentarians from all groups of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u50	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u51	At the end of our parliamentary work, I felt it necessary to limit the scope of the text to the independent administrative authorities, the IAAs, and the independent public authorities, the APIs. Why? Because "who too embraces badly" and, wanting to change everything, one may finally change nothing. On regulatory and legal issues, I have chosen to give first priority to the Constitutional Council and State agencies, whose status is different from that of the independent administrative authorities. The scope of the bill is therefore measured. The IAAs and APIs were observed by the Court of Auditors but also by the Senate, in 2015, in the framework of the committee of inquiry on the balance sheet and the control of the creation, organisation, activity and management of the independent administrative authorities, whose rapporteur was Jacques Mézard. He was then a member of the government of Édouard Philippe and is now a member of the Constitutional Council; That is to say, his probity cannot be called into question. The work of the Senate Committee of Inquiry has revealed that the independent administrative authorities and the public authorities independent of the State are genuine legal UFOs: they have taken a considerable place in our democracy without any effective control being exercised either over their functioning, their governance, their finances or their remuneration policy. These shadow zones, this opacity, cannot endure! The principle of functional independence inherent in IAAs must, of course, be respected, but under no circumstances justifies the establishment of exception regimes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u52	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u53	That was the idea that guided the bill. I have mentioned the political context: more than 160 Members are co-signatories. The text submitted to the presidency of the National Assembly at the beginning of 2019 is also in line with the great national debate, during which the President of the Republic, the members of the Government and the parliamentarians went to meet our fellow citizens, and heard them speak in favour of more justice, more fairness and above all more exemplary, at the top of the institutional and political pyramid of our country. As they say, the example must come from above. Since 2017, we other MPs have put order in our house:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u55	... we have put an end to the parliamentary reserve; we have transformed the representative allowance of money order expenses into advance money order expenses; We have also decided, without anyone forcing us to do so, to bring the pension system of Members into line with the general system of our fellow citizens, which we must welcome. The President of the Republic himself stated that in 2022, at the end of his term of office, if he did not request his renewal, he would not claim the special treatment to which he might claim as former President of the Republic. What is required of citizens and Members of Parliament, would it not be justified to ask for it also from a tiny minority of very high-ranking officials and appointed personalities? In the case of independent administrative authorities, they are appointed officials, politicians or senior officials, whose experience and career paths justify their appointment and who are paid by public money. I make it clear that there is no question, through this text, of attacking the public service, whether it is hospital, territorial or state. We measure every day that the women and men who make up it, including senior officials, serve the State with the greatest sense of responsibility. Nevertheless, the moralization of public life must not be of varying geometry. Exceptional treatments, whatever they may be, are no longer justified. I now turn to the legal provisions of the bill. Article 1, which I would like to point out to the independent administrative authorities and to the independent public authorities, brings the question of the cumulation of income from work and retirement pension back into general law. It aims to ensure that appointed officials can continue to combine the two treatments, but that they no longer benefit from an exception scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u56	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u57	How can it be explained that a political official or a senior official who has made a good career earns more after retirement than when he was in business, because he accumulates his pension and the allowances for the duties in which he was subsequently appointed? These allowances amount to a few tens of thousands of euros: the situation is inexplicable. We therefore propose, with section 1, to terminate an exception scheme, which I even describe as a privilege of another era. This, our fellow citizens, as well as I, who carry out my third term as a Member of Parliament, no longer support him! When I came to the House in 2007, I was not particularly interested in the subject. With experience, I have come to believe that it was my responsibility to draw the attention of all my fellow Members, whether formerly or newly elected, to this essential issue. My role is to raise awareness, hence this bill. The purpose of Article 2 is to regulate remuneration, for which there is no grid within the IAA. The remuneration of their members and chairpersons varies from one to ten. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, if you have not yet done so, to take note of the twenty-page report on the bill. It presents the amounts of remuneration of the presidents and members of the independent administrative and public authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u58	You will discover that some members receive higher remuneration than the President of the Republic! Initially, I had set as the reference financial volume the treatment of this one. The work of the committee led me, together with the Assembly administrator, our group collaborators and my personal collaborator, to endorse the remuneration of the presidents of independent administrative authorities on the index grid of the high public service. This is the subject of an amendment which we will be able to discuss later. Article 3 relates to transparency: it provides for the transmission to the two Houses of Parliament of the amount of remuneration, salaries and hardship allowances for officials and presidents appointed in these administrations. He was satisfied with the adoption of one of my amendments to the draft law on the transformation of the civil service, according to which the Government publishes annually, with the yellow budget attached to the draft finance bill, a report specifying the amount of remuneration for members of the Constitutional Council, administrative authorities and State agencies. I note that the yellow budget we received at the end of 2019 only refers to the independent administrative authorities, not the Constitutional Council or the state agencies. It is therefore necessary to implement in practice the article resulting from my amendment. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LT and GDR groups]] Finally, to those who object to me that my bill is satisfied because the Government will provide it by decree, I will reply that this decree should have already been adopted and was supposed to apply on 1 January. We're 30 and he's still not. Moreover, it is not for the Government to set the conditions for the remuneration of the presidents and members of the independent administrative authorities, but for the legislative power, in particular the deputies, representatives of the nation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u59	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u60	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u61	[[Same movements]] That is the purpose of my bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u62	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u63	The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u64	First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Olivier Dussopt, chosen, as you know, by the pension financing conference; He may join us in the course of our work. We are meeting to discuss the bill to prohibit the cumulation of a retirement pension and an activity allowance for persons appointed to the Constitutional Council and State agencies. Before I enter the heart of the matter, I would like to sincerely thank the IDU, Action and Independent Group for choosing to include a text on ethics on the Assembly's agenda. I would also like to welcome your constant commitment, Mr rapporteur – as you yourself have reminded us – to exemplary public life. I know your demand in this area, especially with regard to those who are responsible for the highest responsibilities. The Government fully shares it. As you said, these questions are at the heart of our Republican pact. At a time when questions are emerging and fears are emerging, this transparency and exemplary approach to our citizens is not only legitimate but necessary and healthy. The Government pays close attention to the structure, management and level of remuneration in public bodies, particularly for persons under the authority of independent administrative authorities and independent public authorities. I note that we have real points of convergence in this regard. You introduced, almost a year ago, the bill that we are now considering; Since then, a great deal of progress has been made. In fact, concerned about the exemplary nature of the Presidents of IAA and API, the legislator – as you have also reminded him – has embarked last summer on the direction of the supervision and clarification of their remunerations, by adopting the law of transformation of the public service that Olivier Dussopt had the honour of defending before your assembly. Article 38 of the Act lays down the principle of limiting the remuneration received by members of the independent authorities who also receive a retirement pension. This is a great step forward; I would like to pay tribute here to all the parliamentarians who have contributed to the debates and made it possible to work in this direction. I am thinking in particular of Mr Fabien Matras and Mr Olivier Marleix, who led the fact-finding mission on the ethics of civil servants and the management of conflicts of interest, Mrs Émilie Chalas, rapporteur of the bill to transform the public service, or Mrs Laurence Vichnevsky. The law provided for the manner in which the measure would be implemented to be determined by a decree. As we undertook to do so, I confirm that the Government transmitted the draft decree to the Council of State on 24 January. We await the opinion of the Section of Administration; Having taken note of your debates in committee, I know how much it is expected of you too. While respecting the separation of powers – as you will understand – and the work of the Council of State, I want to tell you a word about the mechanism proposed by the Government, in order to inform our discussions. In accordance with the law, the implementing decree will specify the conditions under which the amount of pensions will be deducted from the remuneration of members engaged in their activities exclusively. In the case of IAA members and APIs, the amount of salaries received will thus be reduced by the actual amount of the pension or pensions received by the person concerned. In addition, the decree will allow the conditions of remuneration of all IAA and API members to be dealt with in a single text, which will ensure the consistency of the remuneration of each officer while taking into account the level of responsibility associated with each authority. I recall that the rights defender and the members of the Constitutional Council are subject to an organic law. This will be done since article 4 of the draft organic law on the universal pension system, which we will study in the coming weeks, tends to introduce the same mechanism by limiting the cumulation of one or more retirement pensions with the remuneration of members of the independent authorities. I know that we have the same objective, and that MPs and Government have taken their full part in this work. Again, between the tabling of this bill and its consideration today, ten months have passed. In the meantime, the law of 6 August 2019, which the rapporteur referred to, has been promulgated, and the decree implementing its article 38 will soon be published, as I have just indicated. It reflects the position of the Government, consistent with your desire to move towards greater clarity regarding the remuneration of the highest officials in the public sphere. We can therefore reasonably agree, Mr rapporteur, that Article 1 is satisfied. As for article 2, at this stage, it provides that members of the independent authorities may not receive remuneration higher than that of the President of the Republic. We hear that idea. However, we consider that this reference to the compensation of the President of the Republic brings more confusion in our debate than it offers an effective solution to regulate the remuneration of the leaders of the independent authorities. In fact, I know, Mr rapporteur, that you have evolved during your reflection. I call for the utmost caution: too strict postures in this area could ultimately lead to consequences that we do not want. In order to carry out missions involving a high level of responsibility, the State must have a high level of requirement for the skills expected, and this is all the more true of the leaders of the independent authorities who perform their functions in strategic areas. Thus, setting a ceiling for all IAA and API presidencies without taking into account the diversity and specificities of positions would lead the independent authorities to deprive themselves of the ability to attract recognized talent, leaders with a high level of expertise to develop and implement critical public policies or to carry out oversight missions. In the face of real competition from the private sector, therefore, the question of the level of salaries of public officials refers first of all to that of the attractiveness of the posts to be filled. I say this all the more easily since I consider that these high salaries must be subject to a thorough scrutiny and a requirement of transparency, which is expected by our fellow citizens. This is the whole purpose of article 3 of the draft law, which provides that Parliament shall be informed of the remuneration of members appointed to the Constitutional Council, independent administrative or public authorities and State agencies. You have all mentioned this in your committee debates: this provision has already been satisfied by section 95 of the Public Service Transformation Act. This was an essential step forward for the full clarity of the remuneration of managers performing their duties in the public sphere. I would like to point out that it was thanks to your initiative, Mr rapporteur, and to the initiative of all Members that this article was adopted. Thus, in accordance with our objective of transparency of remuneration, the Government will submit annually to Parliament a report specifying the amount of members appointed to the Constitutional Council, as well as to independent administrative and public authorities and State agencies. This is in line with the Government's desire to restore the confidence of our fellow citizens in public officials and to make the remuneration of IAA and API members more transparent. For all these reasons, the Government considers this text to be a useful contribution to this debate that brings us together. The supervision of remuneration within independent authorities and its readability for our citizens are essential conditions for safeguarding the legitimacy and effectiveness of public action. [[Applause on several benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Nevertheless, thanks to the normative adjustments already adopted and to those that will take place in the coming days, and in the context I have outlined to you, the Government believes that the changes in the legislative and regulatory framework are likely to meet these transparency requirements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u65	In the general debate, Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u66	The proposal for a law which our colleague Thierry Benoit has had the initiative of course enjoys the support of our group, but not only: he reminded us, more than 160 co-signatories followed him, on all the benches of the House. This shows that the subject concerns us all and goes beyond all divisions. It is indeed a real challenge for democracy. We spend our time advocating more equality with our fellow citizens, but it seems that some of our senior officials do not fit into this framework. Thierry Benoit has amended this important work, making it perhaps more acceptable. Above all, it raises the issue of certainly oversized remuneration in a country where I recall that the median monthly wage is 1,700 euros. In addition, we realized in committee that the famous decree would not be issued in time, despite the Government's announcements and the assurances of the Chairperson of the commission, who certified me that the Government was still on time. In reality, this delay has almost become a habit! Moreover, the decree does not correspond to what Thierry Benoit expected: his bill goes much further, because there is a need for much more justice. Some of our colleagues – mainly those of the MODEM group – told us in committee that they would determine themselves according to the publication of the decree; So we are waiting for their reaction to what you just said, Minister. But it's a crumbling of the pay you're talking about, more than the bottom of the problem. With regard to the amount of remuneration, one of our colleagues in the running Republic Group spoke in committee about the real need for remuneration to be commensurate with the skills that we want to attract. Under the proposed legislation, however, it is. But this question poses a real problem: why do we want to become president of an independent authority? Is that for pay? If that's the case, it's serious...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u67	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u68	...because it means that motivation is not the common good, service to the population, but getting a place at the end of a career! I thought it was about working for the well-being of society and not thinking about its remuneration! The first two articles of the draft law deal with the issue properly: let us remove the derogation which makes it possible to benefit from cumulation of employment and retirement, which is no longer really on the agenda anyway; Above all, let us maintain a cap on remuneration, always to allow the high public service to regain credibility among our fellow citizens – to which the sums that can be quoted do nothing. The purpose of the bill is absolutely not to point the finger at senior officials, quite the contrary: like the work we have done on transparency for ourselves, voting will be the best way to rehabilitate the senior public service and to show that we need high officials who are properly paid, but certainly not people who move from one administrative authority to another to finish their careers. Thierry Benoit, I repeat, has therefore raised a real question, which deserves to be studied. Moreover, as he said, why should parliamentarians always act?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u70	We have made the necessary way; It's very good, and we're very happy about it; It would be good for the senior public service to do the same now. I would like to remind you – it is important to us – that in terms of transparency on the heritage and declaration of interest, some presidents and high-level members have a lot of work to do. It is still quite rare to find their famous statements on the ad hoc sites, while the parliamentarians transmit them and that is quite normal. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir, LT and GDR groups]] To sum up, the bill really deals with a general subject, because it is transparency, fairness and equality, and it also shows our fellow citizens that the senior public service does not derogate from it. That is why, of course, the UDI-Agir Group is motivated to support this very beautiful bill. And we hope that beyond the differences that separate us on some issues, we will find ourselves on the themes of transparency, equality and equity, so that together we can make a way towards at least a little more fairness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u71	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u72	Mr Yannick Favennec Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u73	The remuneration of members and presidents of independent administrative authorities and independent public authorities is, at the very least, very attractive and poorly supervised. Indeed, they can reach high amounts while being fully combined with a public service retirement pension, and because of their independence, these authorities are exempt from the usual arbitration procedures applicable to State administrations. This situation cannot continue. As our excellent colleague Thierry Benoît pointed out, it is no longer possible to leave doubts as to the primary motivation of the persons appointed to the head of the independent authorities. Our Assembly has the responsibility to give back transparency, fairness and parliamentary control in these practices of another time that undermine the image that these authorities send back or even their financial management. The remuneration of the activities of the presidents of independent authorities is perceived by our fellow citizens as an indecent and unjustified anomaly. For example – and without even taking into account the cumulation with a possible retirement pension – the salaries of the presidents of three IAAs, namely the Autorité des marchés financiers, the Autorité de sécurité nucléaire and the High Authority de santé, are between 200000 and 235,000 euros gross per year, amounts which, it must be said, go wrong in public opinion. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, this scandal, at the launch of the major national debate: the remuneration of the President of the National Commission for Public Debate, in the gross amount of 14700 euros per month in 2019, had outraged our fellow citizens who had been in the roundabouts for months and marched every weekend, all over France, to defend their purchasing power. Remember also the controversy raised by the rights defender's 30000 euros monthly, while he found nothing shocking at the cumulation of his various pensions with his remuneration at the head of an independent authority. If there is nothing illegal in these practices, it is not moral. The state cannot demand efforts from the majority of the French, demand more transparency and ethics in the chain of public action, while maintaining unjustified advantages to particular regimes, a fortiori outside any parliamentary control. It is therefore necessary to limit these remunerations to the level of that of the President of the Republic, as proposed by the rapporteur Thierry Benoit. However, the deputies of the majority reject the positioning of the cursor at the level of the remuneration of the President of the Republic. In committee, they made it clear that they wanted to maintain flexibility in the cap in order to attract leaders at the helm of the independent authorities by offering them higher remuneration than the Head of State. But this position is not tenable! It is shocking for the French, in a context of fighting social inequalities! A December 2017 report of the Court of Auditors on the remuneration policies and practices of IAAs and APIs proposed that the fixing or upgrading of the post allowance allocated to the President and members of the colleges of the independent authorities should take account of the liquidation of a public service pension for those concerned. We have to go in that direction. This is all the more necessary because the independent authorities, which should be exemplary and self-checked to the extent of the freedom granted to them, do not always do so, as the Court of Auditors has observed. The Libertés et Territoires Group had also tabled an amendment to prohibit the cumulation of a public service pension with a public mission when considering the draft law on civil service reform. It had been rejected, on the grounds that the capping was more relevant. But what about the multiple derogations that allow some to cumulate in full? We have introduced more transparency and ethics in the discharge of our mandate, and that is a good thing. Let us therefore continue our approach of consolidating and strengthening ethics in the public sphere and the management of public funds, for what is good for elected officials must be so equally good for the great clerks of the State. Our rapporteur pointed out that the moralization of public life cannot be of varying geometry. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on several benches of the IDU-Agir group]] Let us build trust with our fellow citizens by introducing decency in the monthly income of the presidents and other members of the independent authorities, and by establishing democratic control over these remunerations, which is ensured by our assembly. This bill offers us the opportunity. The Libertés et Territoires Group will seize it by voting, of course, in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u74	All right! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u75	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u76	Without hesitation, the FI Group will vote in favour of this bill, which I have co-signed, to prohibit the cumulation of a retirement pension and an activity allowance, in particular for persons appointed to the Constitutional Council. There was the case of a former primary candidate for the Presidency of the Republic, Alain Juppé, who had a total of 6200 euros of retirement of MP and 3200 euros of retirement of financial inspector, plus the 23000 euros of compensation of member of the Constitutional Council. Of course this is shocking, especially when the person concerned was planning to reduce the retirement pensions of the French! There is a staggering gap here, which must also lead us, as you wish, the rapporteur, to cap these allowances. Therefore, I repeat, our group will vote in favour. [[Comments on several benches of the LaREM group]] However, moralizing the State, moralizing the civil service, cannot be limited to this bill. We are particularly attentive to all that is in the order of slippers and "backpant slippers". For it is a journey that has become common in our Republican elite: we no longer count the high officials who served the State to better loot it: Gérard Mestrallet at Suez, Stéphane Richard at Orange, Michel Bon at France Télécom, Philippe Jaffré at Elf, Jean-Dominique Comolli at the Seita, Michel Pébereau at BNP-Paribas, and all the Dutch advisers, whose enemy was finance, who went to Amundi, Cathay Capital Private Equity, Société générale, etc. The latest scandal is Hugh Bailey, yesterday Emmanuel Macron's industrial advisor to the Ministry of Economy, who ended up where, then, when he had given to the Alstom rebate to General Electric? France Director of General Electric! In the promotion of the Légion d'honneur in January, I note the presence of Jean-François Cirelli, now known as the French director of BlackRock, but who let go private Gaz de France by his marriage with Suez – now since Engie – when he was the CEO, and touched on the passage more than 1 million euros, once becoming the vice-DG. I am quoting names, but it is not a question of calling into question individual cases of corruption since one is faced with the corruption of a class, the corruption of a system. There is, of course, a need to set limits. [[Murmures on several benches of the LaREM group]] In the discussions I had, on the roundabouts, with the yellow vests, the case of parliamentarians and members of the Constitutional Council was constantly discussed, and I tempered the words I heard telling them that the tree of injustice in the public should not hide the forest of inequalities in the private sector. I come back to the Ibis Hotel in the Batignolles, where twenty-four employees, housekeepers and maids, have been on strike for more than six months. There is Sylvie, Salah, Rachel, I ask one of them to ask her what her daily life is: she left Vernon station at five forty-five in the morning, arrived at Saint-Lazare station, then took the metro line 13 to the hotel, all for a service of a few hours. It comes from wear, with arm problems, musculoskeletal disorders, and always the risk of being moved while waiting to be fired. Hence the claim of a dressing premium and the inclusion of travel expenses. And the management of this three-star hotel at 120 euros the room tells them, for six months, that this is not possible. My first reflex was to type on my mobile phone: Accor News. I came across a very recent article from Figaro: "Accor continues its returns to shareholders", i.e. 300 million euros to buy shares that are part of a plan of 1 billion. How to understand that there is nothing for these housekeepers when this great gavage takes place. As we know, this has just been announced: the dividends of the CAC 40 beat an absolute record in 2019 since they reached 60 billion euros, even my colleague Patrick Mignola, from MODEM, was astonished. The share of profits redistributed as dividends has tripled since the 1980s, at a time when there are 400,000 more poor in one year in the country, at a time when the poverty rate is almost 15%! I am therefore in favour of a ceiling on compensation in the public. But let's cap, let's cap, let's cap! Let's also fix the over-revenues of the richest in the private sector! Jean Jaurès said: "The Republic has made the French kings in the city, and left them serfs in the company. I don't know whether to make them kings in the company, but in any case they have to stop being serfs to become citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u77	All right! Thank you for your vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u78	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u79	A doubt has been insinuated; The confidence of French and French people in their institutions has been undermined. We may share this cruel finding here, but to varying degrees, because I also see how undervalued, if not ignored, the anger and even sometimes the disgust of our fellow citizens against arrogant elites and a political class that it considers disconnected. The tenth wave of CEVIPOF's study of opinion expresses with the utmost clarity how these sad passions deeply cross our society: all the indicators of the barometer are in red, in proportions unsurpassed since this survey existed, that is, since 2009. This quinquennium does not help, on the contrary, since in spite of the moralizing postures adopted by the majority, business has actually multiplied. Emmanuel Macron thus became the President who saw eight of his ministers resign for reasons of ethics and conflicts of interest, an unprecedented record under the Fifth Republic. It is no wonder that the gaps between citizens and those who are supposed to guide public action are not widening. The yellow vest movement has brought to light the abyss that separates, on the one hand, an executive power, a companion of BlackRock and the great financial powers, and, on the other hand, a people strangled by the increasing anti-social measures, a people too often infantilized and despised. It is more than time to see that, despite their deep and ancient roots, trust in our democratic system and institutions is becoming dangerously fragmented. In the eyes of many, the credibility of the ruling elites to speak in the name of the general interest is shaken. These elites too often come from the same beautiful neighborhoods, have attended the same great schools, slipped into the same big companies and, made fortune, now occupy massively the places of administrative and political power. How can we fail to understand that, for a large majority of our fellow citizens, money and this cozy self are an ecosystem conducive to arrangements and concealment, that is to say, anything that is contrary to the requirements of transparency? This issue is as old as politics; Socrates or Plato were already questioning the relationship between money and public affairs in their time. Since 2010, four laws have been passed and 15,000 senior public officials are now filling out declarations of interest and heritage. The Delevoye case shows, however, that in the area of conflict of interest prevention, custody should never be reduced. That is why we have co-signed the bill which our colleague Thierry Benoit so rightly defends. This text echoes the various polemics raised by the publication of the remunerations of certain heads of State agencies. Although its legislative scope is modest, the proposed scheme is an element of concrete response. We share the spirit of this, because we should promote a certain conception of republican virtue: at a time when the private sector is experiencing a total drift in wage differentials, the public sector must be exemplary and transparent. Finally, even if the bill does not finally deal with the Constitutional Council and the issue of pensions will be referred to the relevant organic bill, I cannot conclude without pointing out that the happy members of the Constitutional Council will be recognized the "grandfather" clause when others, much more modest, would have liked to benefit from it. In conclusion, I confirm that we will support this text, in the interests of the general interest, as it contributes to the requirement of accountability of public actors at all levels. This is an essential component of the Republican Pact. It is also the horizon of a sober, modest and transparent society that we must now build. For all these reasons, the GDR Group will of course vote in favour of this text, whose members are co-signatories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u80	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u81	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u82	Mr rapporteur, this bill has a history, which is first of all yours: it is necessary to acknowledge your stubbornness and consistency in the effort you have been making for many years to reduce abuses and promote transparency. In your report, you quote René Dosière; I recognize this as a filiation, and it is to your honor. This effort, we also provide it because during the great debate, amounts were quoted and shocked our fellow citizens, even though a form of social despair was expressed on the roundabouts. On the other hand, the fact that a structure which was designed for this purpose did not want to assume its role as guarantor of the great debate did not help. It was in this context that you drafted your bill, and I understand that many of our colleagues decided to co-sign it: the current situation was shocking. But history, in the meantime, has continued, notably with the passage of the Public Service Transformation Act, several of which – I am thinking of those relating to ethics or those on which I will come back, provided for in the Order-in-Council which must govern the cumulative retirement and remuneration of members of the IAA – have, often to your initiative, moreover, responded to the requirements expressed in this bill. Where are we today? What is the state of the debate? I would like to make a point on this issue, because we have had fairly clear debates in committee on the genesis of the ongoing transparency effort. I readily acknowledge, dear Cécile Untermaier, that the current majority has not invented transparency: efforts have been made before us. HATVP – the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life – has been in existence for a long time now. I would even say that the IAAs denounced were precisely designed to take an external look able to control and reveal public action: there is a sweet irony to legislate to prevent the abuse of structures that were specifically intended to promote transparency. To recognize this reality, however, should not lead us to erase the efforts made by the current government to promote transparency in public life, which the rapporteur has pointed out with great elegance. I will not go back to the details of each of the texts voted, but the law for confidence in political life, the law for the transformation of the civil service, which strengthens ethics and supervision, or the draft organic law on the application of the fifth paragraph of article 13 of the Constitution, recently adopted at first reading, through which we should integrate CADA and OFII – the Commission d'accès aux documents administratifs and the French Office for Immigration and Integration – among the bodies whose appointment of leaders is exercised under the control of Parliament, partake of a movement of which the Government and the majority can, in my opinion, be proud, and which makes us serene. Two of the sections of this bill are, in my view, already satisfied. The third, as you pointed out, is not the most trivial: ensuring, through a report, the transparency of these remunerations is the best democratic control that we can establish. This exercise will influence, through a form of feedback, the very level of remuneration, we do not doubt. Article 1 should, as the Minister pointed out, be very much satisfied with the decree under consideration by the Council of State. The Government can be taunted for its delay in implementing certain commitments enshrined in the law on the transformation of the civil service, but, very sincerely, it seems to me that those who have a bit of seniority – I am not, but some of us – can recognize that this government produces decrees faster than at other times. We await the return of the Council of State with serenity, and I believe that the forthcoming decree will meet the requirement expressed in Article 1. Article 2 on remuneration remains, which will also be the subject of a decree. It provides for a cap on the remuneration of IAA presidents. On this point, I note that, in the case of the chronicle at the time of the major debate, the level of remuneration in question would remain authorised by Article 2 as drafted, and even if your amendment were adopted, Mr rapporteur. Let us therefore acknowledge that this article suffers from a certain vanity: in a country where some of our fellow citizens experience considerable social suffering, the remuneration granted to public actors, whatever it may be, will always be perceived as excessive. As you know, we all hear comments of this nature, including our own remuneration. We need to be consistent. What are the IAAs for? To monitor public action and reveal important information. We therefore need experts in this area. The NSA, the Nuclear Safety Authority, for example, must employ engineers. Similarly, in Great Britain, the remuneration of members of the body equivalent to the Autorité des marchés financiers is two and a half times higher than in France. We can be shocked, but the truth is that these salaries are important. You mentioned the motivation of those who hold such positions. For them, it is not a matter of earning money by accepting these positions, but can they be asked to divide their remuneration by two or three because they want to take care of the public thing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u83	That's often the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u84	We need to be consistent. While we must respond to a need for transparency, transparency is also, and above all, the legibility and coherence of public action. We want independent administrative authorities made up of experts and driven by the skills needed to look calmly and lucidly at public action. [[The Chairperson of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration applauds]] We have a way to go, Mr. Zumkeller was pointing it out. The forthcoming decrees, which are under consideration by the Council of State, will constitute a step forward. Perhaps we will have to continue our efforts in this area. The Group of the Republic on the March considers that the proposed text, in itself, does not fully meet this need. That is why he opposes it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u85	It's five minutes per intervention, normally!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u86	Mr Vuilletet has, in fact, somewhat exceeded his speaking time. Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u87	Transparency and exemplaryness in the highest positions of State bodies, if they are a priority of the MODEM Group, are also a priority for all the groups represented in this House. I would like to welcome, after our colleague Mr Vuilletet, the important progress made during the previous parliamentary term, and even earlier. Reference was made to the establishment of the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, whose next president, who has been heard by the Law Committee, will be appointed shortly. Also adopted were the Sapin 1 laws on the prevention of corruption and the transparency of economic life and public procedures, and Sapin 2 laws on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernisation of economic life, on which I will not return, but which have obviously made very significant progress. The majority I belong to want to continue this effort – like all of us, let's be honest. This is an ongoing process, which fundamentally changes the functioning of our institutions. The draft law in question, Mr rapporteur, is perfectly in line with this dynamic, and that is why so many colleagues had co-signed it. However, it intervenes on a temporary basis. I evacuate the question of the Constitutional Council, mentioned in the title of the text but absent from the operative part because it falls under an organic law. On this point, however, I would like to point out that the draft organic law on the universal pension system addresses some of your concerns, since it provides for a more precise framework for the remuneration of members of the Constitutional Council and for a caption to stop the full cumulation of pensions and office allowances. In fact, you are more specifically concerned with the remuneration of members of independent administrative or public authorities and the possibility for them to combine their retirement pension and their working allowances in full. This management concern was fully justified and consistent with the expectations of the citizens in March 2019, when your bill was tabled. But you have made the choice, Mr rapporteur, to put this text on the agenda one year later, for a day reserved for your group, while important legislative developments, to which reference has already been made, have since largely satisfied your demands. Apart from the advances already mentioned – I do not want to repeat them, not to tire – and beyond the report on the highest salaries, which will encourage a lot of moderation, I come from the outset to the famous article 38. I agree with you, Mr rapporteur, when you say that it is up to the legislator to lay down the principles: that is what we have done, by referring to a decree in the Council of State the determination of the methods of remuneration and, above all, of subtracting from retirement the amount of the remuneration provided for. If I recall correctly, I had indicated in the Committee on Laws that the position of the MODEM group should be reserved, pending further information on the content of the decree – rather than waiting for its publication, because we are well aware of the deadlines to be observed. We are now aware that the decree is being reviewed by the Council of State, and Minister Fesneau has given us indications as to its content, which are likely to satisfy us, because they are based on the draft organic law on the universal pension system, in its provisions concerning the defender of rights and members of the Constitutional Council. Mr rapporteur, you abstained, I would like to remind you, during the vote on the law on the transformation of the civil service, which did, however, take up almost all of your proposals, with the exception of Article 3. On the other hand, capping remuneration is an interesting topic. I hope we will come back to that, but perhaps the reference was not the right one. In the light of the information provided by the Minister, the MODEM Group believes that this bill is no more than the progress already made in the texts I have just mentioned. For this reason, he will rule for his rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u88	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u89	First of all, I apologize for not having been able to attend this whole meeting, because I was retained by the work of a commission on the independence of the judicial authority. However, I wanted to take part in this debate, in particular to welcome the rapporteur and congratulate him on his tenacity and sincerity in this fight – which should not be one, since the aim is simply to propose a common rule for calculating the cumulation of pensions and allowances paid to chair an IAA or an API. It is simply a matter of ensuring reasonable remuneration for all those who choose to serve the Republic. It is never easy to address this issue in the Chamber, because it appears intrusive and often malicious, and politics is always afraid to damage a little more the political class, which does not need it. However, the citizen is waiting for the legislator on this point and it is important that the National Assembly continue its work. I hear, Mr Vuilletet, that your majority has worked in this direction, as we did in 2013 with the creation of an independent authority, the High Authority for the transparency of public life. A recent book has presented a serious study that evokes the voracity for the money manifested by the high public service, affirms that the republican priesthood belongs to the past and finds that slippery and retropantouflage has become a mass sport, with its lot of abuse of money and conflicts of interest. The hearing of the new Chairman of HATVP allowed us to say how much we relied on this independent authority for finally the work that was not done by the Public Service Ethics Commission and for objective data to allow us to move forward. The Observatoire de l'éthique publique works in this field with MPs from all benches. None of these Members, of whom I am a member, have a spirit of revenge or envy, and all of them, in fact, want only to prevent harmful devices that eventually damage the Republic. As has been said, the aim of the text we are looking at is to provide a better framework for the remuneration of the best paid officials, in a context where citizens are increasingly demanding justice, fairness and transparency from the institutions. Its first article puts an end to the derogations which certain senior officials enjoy and which allow the full cumulation of a retirement pension with the remuneration of a public office – some senior officials would thus accumulate up to 30000 or 40000 euros of monthly income. Article 2 limits the maximum remuneration of the heads of independent administrative authorities and independent public authorities. Finally, Article 3 makes remuneration subject to the requirement of transparency by providing that Parliament must be informed not only of the various appointments, but also of the remuneration awarded. I had, moreover, already announced to the Law Committee that this mechanism would be implemented. The 2014 pension reform has radically changed the way employment-retirement cumulation operates and provides that an official cannot benefit from the full accumulation of his income: cumulation is prohibited beyond an annual aggregate threshold of approximately 65000 euros. It is good that this capping threshold exists, but it does suffer from several derogations which allow some to cumulate their retirement pension without any restriction with the allowances of their function. It is therefore a real step forward, but it does not solve the question of the cumulation of a pension with work or an allowance according to a general principle. That is the interest of the bill before us. However, its purpose was already debated in the spring of 2019 during the vote on the bill to modernize the public service, article 38 of which provides for the publication of a decree to define "the conditions under which the amount of retirement pensions received by retired members is deducted from the remuneration paid to them". As such, the members of the majority rejected this bill, referring to this decree, which was to be published in December 2019 to take effect as of January 1, 2020. We too have experienced delays, but to date we still have no knowledge of the final content of this future decree, which puts us in a delicate situation in the face of a project which is agreed to by all of us in principle and whose modalities alone are problematic. The Socialist and Related Group is in favour of the mechanism proposed by this text, which works for transparency and moderation and which we support in that it establishes a common rule that is legible, fair and transparent, and strengthens us on the road to republican virtue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u90	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u91	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u92	How can we not agree to such a bill? It tends towards more fairness by cutting short the small privileges and wages that can, without demagogy, be termed opaques, if not indecency. Recently, the former mayor of Bordeaux, Alain Juppé, had been subjected to a few acid spades for having seen his salary more than double after he had traded his seat as mayor for that of a member of the Constitutional Council, so the salary went from 5600 euros gross to about 13300 euros net per month. A good deal, and all the more so since we must add to this sum the various pensions linked to his former mandates as mayor of Bordeaux, deputy and deputy to the mayor of Paris: he, at least, will have no problems of retirement! Examples like this one, the press gives us almost daily water. It is difficult, then, to be surprised that the French have had enough of "do what I say and not what I do". Even in the case of the staff of the independent administrative authorities, where, according to a 2017 report by the Court of Auditors, "the number of jobs "out of ceiling " has tended to increase, attesting to a "failure point" of the system for controlling their payroll". Clearly, not only do wages go away, but, at the same time, retirement benefits and pensions can accumulate almost infinitely. As long as you're pantouflard, it's the jackpot! Suffice it to say that this does not contribute to uniting the "France d'en bas", as some call it, and France d'en haut, that of Paris or the metropolises, with its posts that allow to touch the big lot at the end of the journey. At a time when the French are demanding more justice, fairness and transparency, this bill has the merit of setting foot in the ground. I agree with this, especially since, like you, the rapporteur, I believe that the persons appointed to head the various agencies of the State or of the Constitutional Council fulfil a mission of general interest for which it is no longer possible to leave doubt as to their primary motivation. More than that, I believe that this is about the dignity of our institutions. In December 2017 already – I should say "again" – the Court of Auditors stressed the lack of a clear framework defining the remuneration policies of the members and presidents of the 25 independent administrative and public authorities. This must change, because it is neither tenable nor acceptable – and even less so in times of widespread distrust, when our fellow citizens feel that public money is not always used in the best way. It is time to stop special schemes and other small favours granted to a handful of privileged people. Not to sanction, but to restore the image that the French can make of those who are supposed to work for them and be at the service of the State, and therefore, it should not be forgotten, of France. I am therefore pleased to have co-signed this bill, which is intended precisely to regulate the remuneration of persons appointed to the Constitutional Council and to the various agencies of the State. Going back to the idea of a cap on cumulative employment and retirement seems to me to be a good thing. This is what had already been voted in 2014 during the pension reform, with an annual threshold of around 65000 euros. Unfortunately, too many derogations have seriously undermined the credibility of this virtuous principle. It therefore seems to me not only fair, but coherent, to establish, as Article 2 of the proposed law does, that "The amount of remuneration of persons appointed within independent administrative and public authorities and State agencies, any salary and allowances combined, must be less than the remuneration of the President of the Republic. This measure seems all the more logical since it is difficult to explain that the President of the Republic is at the top of our institutions and that "at the same time" – again! – more than 600 senior officials earn more than he does. So using the Head of State's remuneration as a ceiling is quite consistent, and I fully subscribe to it. For all these reasons, I will vote without hesitation and enthusiastically for this bill, which is just a measure of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u93	Social justice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u94	[[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] I do, however, admit to you, Mr rapporteur, that I prefer it as you have tabled it, rather than as you are going to amend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u95	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u96	I would like to thank all the spokespersons of the groups that support this approach: naturally my colleague from the IUD group, Agir et indépendants Michel Zumkeller, as well as Yannick Favennec Becot, François Ruffin, Stéphane Peu, Cécile Untermaier and Emmanuelle Ménard. Mrs Ménard, of course I too would have liked the text to reach its original scope and apply both to the Constitutional Council and to State agencies and administrative authorities. However, as I said in the general discussion, which too much embraces poorly tightened. In fact, the president of the Observatoire de l'éthique, René Dosière, told me that I was right to target a single objective – the independent administrative authorities – and that, through their vote, Members could finally set the course. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups]] Minister Vuilletet, spokesman for the Republic on the move, Mrs Vichnievsky, spokesman for the MODEM Group, I do not agree at all with the arguments that you have put forward. There is no question of calling into question your desire for transparency, ethics and probity – we all strive to be good representatives of our fellow citizens – but this bill is aimed precisely at avoiding the use of the decree, which weakens the scope and role of the legislator. The decree is the smokescreen used for half a century so that we parliamentarians are not aware of the actual remuneration of the officials concerned. You'll have to say it one day! I said in committee that this question will not let you down and, in fact, it will not let us down. When it comes to the remuneration of senior officials, it is necessary to take into account both salary and allowances and hardships, that is to say, an entire arsenal, a whole funding mechanism. With this bill, I want to be clear, clear and precise: I propose that the legislator put an end to the derogation that allows these personalities to cumulate lightly, without the limit that applies to all public servants. Today, the common law allows an official to cumulate as follows: for a basic pension of 90000 euros, this amount is divided by three, or 30000 euros, plus the figure of 7000 euros, or 50% of the guaranteed minimum pension. This official will then be able to accumulate 37,000 euros with his retirement. However, the amounts we are talking about today amount to tens of thousands of euros, which is totally unacceptable. Minister, Mrs Vichnievsky, you said that an organic bill would have to be proposed. We've prepared it! It is ready and if we do not deposit it, it is because we are focusing on the independent administrative authorities. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Mr Vuilletet, you exclaimed that we were going to ask senior officials to divide their remuneration by two or three, and that it was about the attractiveness of the functions concerned. But let's not confuse state agencies with administrative authorities! The best paid of the senior officials concerned, the President of the Autorité des marchés financiers, receives €241000. The next two receive EUR 221000 for the Nuclear Safety Authority and EUR 200000 for the Energy Regulatory Commission. They would be reduced to 170000 or 180000 euros – the unfortunate! – and that would create a huge problem of attractiveness? I have the solution: the President of the Republic and the ministers have only to appoint French citizens or parliamentarians at the head and within these authorities! The amounts to which I propose to cap remuneration represent three times a member's allowance in 2020. You mustn't tell us stories! Jacques Mézard's Senate report, a former minister of the government of Édouard Philippe who sits on the Constitutional Council today, has an eloquent title: A State in the State: Canalizing the proliferation of independent administrative authorities to better control them. It states that "The intensity of Parliament's control has been reduced as successive governments transfer their powers to the various independent administrative authorities" and that the separation of powers "is deeply blurred and altered by the existence and, more importantly, the profusion of independent administrative authorities. By default, they are attached to the executive branch, and by their very nature they are beyond its control. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u97	Yes! Since the authorities are independent in nature, the ministries do not control them, they operate in the most complete opacity. And the report goes on: "the conditions for their responsibility to Parliament" are "unsatisfactory" or "non-existent". This means that, over the course of the legislatures, we are reducing the rights and the role of parliamentarians by transferring the legislative power vested in us to the independent administrative authorities. That is also what this is about. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is Thursday afternoon, so it is quite normal that the House should not be full, since some colleagues work in committee while others have returned to their constituency. I say so that those who listen to us are not surprised that only a few dozen Members are present at the moment: it is quite normal. The group spokesmen spoke. Nevertheless, by circulating in the corridors, by speaking individually to the MPs – as you do, Minister, since you are in charge of relations with Parliament – we understand why 160 of them co-signed this bill, coming from all the benches: it is that on all benches, MPs are sensitive to issues of fairness, justice and transparency, as François Ruffin and Stéphane Peu have said. Yannick Favennec Becot wondered whether such sums were acceptable from a moral point of view. I don't think so. Let us be clear: with this text, we do not question the pay scale for senior officials, nor do we question the cumulation of employment and retirement. We would like to return to some exceptional cases of senior officials appointed to certain posts. Once again, they are appointed, and this is public money! We want to put an end to this opacity, this lack of transparency. Mrs Ménard, the text has a measured scope because I wanted the objective to be achieved. But still, since it is also a matter of money, the economy would each year be more than 300,000 euros, or 1 million euros by the end of the legislature! And I think that in 2020 we need to track down economies wherever they are possible. I am tired of hearing from the budget that there are no means for people with disabilities, for health, justice, the gendarmerie, the police, and national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u99	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LT groups]] I am also tired of hearing, as is sometimes the case, some comments concerning local elected officials, parliamentarians who would live very hard thanks to their allowances. It is time to turn the spotlight to this particular category of officials appointed. They are sometimes former elected officials, which is an additional reason why I believe it is essential to pay close attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u100	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u101	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u102	I would like to make some points of answer, but I do not want to prolong the debate too much. First of all, Mr rapporteur, you are too fine an observer of political life, and too fine a political one, not to see that the debate is being moved on a ground that is not that of the text. You have dealt with the question of the independent administrative authorities, and precisely their independence, regretting in some way that, as a result, Parliament is being divested of some of its prerogatives. Do I dare to remind you that, in most cases, the creation of independent administrative authorities has been decided, voted upon and sometimes supported and desired by the parliamentarians themselves? However, we must not regret what we have sometimes voted for ourselves. From this point of view, IAAs, which are the result of the constant will of the legislator and which, through many of their missions, play a crucial role in the debate and in the work carried out by the public service, must not be – forgive these excessive terms – rejected or indexed. I would like to welcome Mrs Untermaier and several other speakers for their comments on the continuity of action by legislators and governments in order to bring more transparency, justice and fairness on the issues we are addressing this afternoon. It is the honour of the National Assembly and of Parliament as a whole to address these problems, which, it is acknowledged, did not arise ten years ago and arise today. On the way, we noted that some points could not be addressed. It is to remedy this that laws have been passed which you recalled, such as the Sapin law or the law of transformation of the civil service last summer. I would like to reply, Mr rapporteur, to the questions raised by the three articles of your text. The first concerns transparency. As I have already said, you yourself have had provisions passed to enable the legislator to know the nature of the remuneration. These measures have been taken thanks to you, Mr rapporteur – I am not saying that to please you, it is the simple truth. We will therefore meet the need for transparency. The second question you are asking, that of cumulation, is legitimate: it is a matter of both justice and transparency. What could have hurt was to find out that the remuneration could be added to a retirement – a kind, if I may say, of complement. On this subject, I would remind you that a decree is being drafted. He's gonna be taken. Mr. Vuilletet rightly observed, and is not the only one, that the publication of this Order was somewhat delayed. Untermaier added, out of intellectual honesty, that such a delay was not abnormal. I recognize that there is a little delay, but also recognize, as I announced before Parliament a few days ago, that the rate of law enforcement is now at an unprecedented level. This certainly does not excuse this delay, which is of the order of one month. I would like to repeat what I said in my opening remarks: in the case of IAA members and APIs, the amount of salaries received will be reduced by the actual amount of the pension or pensions received by the persons concerned. I couldn't be clearer. The requirement cannot be met otherwise...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u103	The decree is not ready!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u104	I hear what you're saying, Mr. Benoit, but I have specified the elements that would be included. Could we not, in the context of a democratic and legislative debate, trust ourselves enough to consider that your request is basically satisfied? Finally, I would like to return to the issue of remuneration, which Mr Zumkeller raised. I think it is appropriate to pay attention to the way things are said and the words used. The probity and competence required by the public service is not only measured by the amount of remuneration, I agree with you. But don't say that these qualities would be better guaranteed if the wages were lower – for that is a bit the meaning of your remarks. While recalling that frameworks are provided for in certain situations, I would like to draw your attention to specific cases, referring to two examples: the Centre national d'études spatiales – CNES – and the Opéra de Paris. Remuneration levels in these institutions are high because the requirements are specific. The number of people who meet the criteria for these occupations, with a high level of competence and requirement, is low. On the other hand, both are players in a global market, and are competing with other organizations. Attention must therefore be paid to the issue of remuneration. Of course, there must be real demand and transparency, and everything that may appear to be an unfair advantage must be swept away. And that has been done, let's say! We should not get out of this debate with the idea that nothing has been done. Both, in successive majorities – and the current majority has not been taken in default on this point – have made progress on these issues. But be careful not to take paths that would eventually get us away from the interests of our country, which is that public service missions are carried out by the best – that the best officials serve the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u105	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u106	I'm not saying otherwise, Mr. Benoit. I say that we must be careful about the way in which we approach this problem because it could lead, if I may say so, to some kind of confusion. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] These were the elements of an answer that I wanted to give you, Mr rapporteur. Thank you very much. To be completely honest, what I am trying to do before you is, in essence, the way you have come with this bill that has allowed us, collectively, to speed up the process. I can assure you that the requirements and the will that are yours are translated into the law and the implementing decree that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u107	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text. On Amendment No 2, I am seized by the UDI Group, acting independently, of a request for a public vote. I would add that, on Article 1, I am also seized, by the same group, of a request for a public ballot. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u108	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u109	It is intended to restrict employment-retirement cumulation to members of IAAs and APIs only, subjecting it to the rules of common law. There is no question of creating an exceptional right, nor of being stricter than with any other senior official. I would also like to point out that the independent administrative authorities must be separated from State agencies, which have nothing to do with the fact that they are public industrial and commercial establishments, public administrative establishments or public interest groups, which is completely different. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to put an end to the exception rule which now allows individuals named in IAAs and APIs to benefit from cumulation. I continue to say that the Order is a smokescreen that prevents the legislator from making a decision in this direction. I would like such a provision to be established within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u111	We will probably one day have a debate on the issue of decrees – I note that you are constantly returning to them – but admit that we have a Constitution that provides for, among other things, implementing decrees. We have not been outside the standard built since 1958.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u112	If the decree isn't ready, it's good that he's bothering!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u113	Since I am telling you, Mr. Rapporteur, that this decree is in the Council of State...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u114	He's been there since this summer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u115	I can read it to you. If we could trust each other a little, it would be profitable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u116	Senior officials don't want it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u117	Mr rapporteur, let the Minister answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u118	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Public authorities need respect for officials and senior officials – I'm telling you as simply as I think, I'm neither. It's also how we build a society. No one has any interest in nurturing animosity towards elected officials, trade unions or anyone else, and no more towards public servants and senior public servants. Now you will allow me to respond in substance to what this amendment provides for. Employment-retirement cumulation under ordinary law now follows different rules depending on the situation of pensioners who keep an activity. When they have liquidated their pension without the full rate and when they are under 67 years of age, a pension capping rule applies if the sum of the income from activity and pensions is greater than the insured person's income from activity before he/she liquidates his/her retirement. However, it is not practiced to encourage cumulation in certain cases, such as judicial and advisory activities. It is this derogation that is covered by this bill and by this amendment. However, after 67 years of age, or even after 62 years of age, if his pension has been liquidated at full rate, the accumulation is full for all activities. The proposed amendment therefore covers only part of the cumulation situations for both IAA and IPA Presidents as well as for the Constitutional Council, since many of them are over 67 years of age. This proposal will therefore not have the scope that the rapporteur wishes to give him. The Government's approach to the implementation of the Public Service Transformation Act and the draft Organic Pension Reform Act are in fact more ambitious. It envisages limiting the benefit of cumulation by applying a mechanism to reduce the remuneration of IAA members by the amount of their retirement pension actually received throughout the term. This allowed me to give you the position of the Government for the third or fourth time. For all these reasons, we are against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u119	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u120	The minister's argument seems very clear to me, and the use of decrees does not seem to me to be so undemocratic as this: we must not exaggerate! According to the information given to us by the Government, and I trust it in this matter, what it has planned to include in the decree will go well beyond the provisions of article 1 and the amendment, against which we will vote. I ask for a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u121	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u122	The meeting was resumed. Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u123	As Thierry Benoit has said, we propose nothing but an alignment with the common law. Minister, we hear what you're telling us about the Order-in-Council and I don't want to go back to it, but it's not fair for you to present it to us only today, in session. It's been some time since we passed the Public Service Transformation Act. You could have given us some information several days ago, we would have had an idea of its content! You tell us everything is clear, but no, your case is not clear at all. For example, when Thierry Benoit asks for the application of the common law, you speak of slashing. This should at least answer a somewhat technical but precise question: will this cover only cover the part of the compensation or the whole of the treatment? [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] But acknowledge that it is not right for Members to be informed in public about what they should have had for at least a week!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u124	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember the conditions under which we examined the Public Service Transformation Bill? We trusted ourselves – parliamentarians, Government, rapporteur, Chair of the Law Committee! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Perhaps you also remember a very nice moment of parliamentary work when we prepared the merger of the High Authority for Transparency in Public Life and the Commission on the Ethics of the Civil Service? I want other beautiful parliamentary moments like this one! Today, we cannot be distrustful of the Government when it refers, in a rather comprehensive manner, to the content of the decree under consideration in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u126	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u127	If Jean-Louis Nadal, then head of the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life, then Didier Migaud, who has just succeeded him, have for themselves renounced the cumulation of their pension and their compensation without waiting for the publication of a decree or the vote of a law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u128	It's essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u129	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] ...that's because there's a serious and very important issue here.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u130	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u131	I put Amendment No. 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u132	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 74 Number of votes cast 71 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 28 Against 43
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u133	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u134	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 28 Against 42
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u135	On Article 2, I am seized by the IUD Group, Action and Independents, of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The rapporteur, Mr Thierry Benoit, has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u136	In order to improve the legal soundness of the drafting process and following our discussions in committee, Amendment No 3 amends the reference used for a cap on remuneration by referring, rather than the remuneration of the President of the Republic, to the "double of the salary relating to the first upper group of out-of-scale jobs of the State", as provided for in the index grid of the civil service. The ceiling would therefore be set at 170000 euros gross per year: it seems to me that one can still live with this sum, when one is appointed by decision of an elected one! I insist: these people are appointed, not employed. There is here the whole dialectic that leads the legislator to seize the subject...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u137	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u138	The Government is against the amendment. The concept of agency is not a legal category that covers administrative entities of various statutes. With regard to IAAs and APIs, the Government recalls that the above-mentioned decree will soon govern all the remunerations of their members. I do not go back to the level of remuneration mentioned at the moment by the rapporteur, because we have already talked about it. Furthermore, the Government recalls that the limits on full cumulation permitted by article L. 86 of the Pension Code and article L. 161-22 of the Social Security Code apply up to the age limit of 67 years. In addition, full cumulation is permitted under the general scheme. This is the common law system. The legislator, concerned with the exemplary nature of the Presidents of IAA and API, who are the corollary of their mission, has already undertaken to limit this cumulation beyond what is provided for in ordinary law. The derogation from ordinary law here is in line with your proposals. Finally, the Government indicates that the adoption of this amendment would seriously undermine the legal certainty of the remuneration of members of certain IAAs, whose legal basis has already been repealed on 1 January 2020, by the law of 6 August 2019 that you adopted. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u139	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u140	I will not go back to the whole debate that we have already started very widely, and will just make three remarks. Firstly, I would remind the rapporteur that the senior officials are not the only ones concerned. When I was talking about remuneration that might be divided by two or three, I was not referring to theirs – they are far from it – but to those of private sector experts, who may be asked, for various reasons, to be the guarantor of the general interest within an IAA. I would also like to point out that the level of remuneration you are planning misses the main target mentioned in your speech: the remuneration of the person who did not want to organize the great national debate, so as not to name it. Finally, in your response at the end of the general discussion, you did not raise the issue of pay as much as the question of the relevance of the IAA itself. Let us be honest and go to the end: do we need independent administrative authorities or not? Are they legitimate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u141	That was not the question at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u142	Let's ask these questions, let's have this debate. If it seems to me that they are useful to public action and its control, you have of course the right to have a different opinion. In any case, we will vote against the amendment and against Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u143	I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u144	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 76 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 30 Against 43
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u145	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u146	It is intended to delete article 3, the objective of which is already satisfied by the law on the transformation of the civil service. I had indeed passed an amendment, contrary to the Government's opinion, that the Government would publish annually a report indicating the remuneration of members of the Constitutional Council, State agencies and independent administrative authorities. The law applies. But when you look at the yellow budget tonight, you will notice that it gives the remuneration of the members of the independent administrative authorities, but above all not that of the members of the Constitutional Council, let alone that of the members of the State agencies. We see that transparency is difficult, very difficult to apply! In any case, I propose by this amendment to delete Article 3, since its objective has already been satisfied by an amendment by the UDI-Agir Group and independent, adopted against the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u147	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u148	An amendment also adopted, Mr rapporteur, with the support of the majority and other opposition groups! As far as the Government is concerned, we find here one of our points of agreement: the objective of the article is already satisfied by the law of 6 August 2019. The Government therefore issued a wisdom opinion on the deletion of this article, the provisions of which were largely redundant with existing arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u149	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u150	[[Smile]] We will support this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u151	What courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u152	What an opening!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u153	When you think he's the former Chief of Staff at Chevènement...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u154	I take this opportunity to stress that, through its pedagogy, Parliament has touched the Government: from an unfavorable opinion, it has moved on to a wisdom opinion! This shows that we are progressing.... Let's keep working.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u155	You plan to vote in favour of the bill, perhaps?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u156	The report provided for in the Public Service Transformation Act will allow us to bring the issue of the remuneration of IAA members into the public debate, and to work towards transparency. He was pleased that the amendment which had introduced it had been adopted by a very large majority. Since it was adopted, we support the amendment to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u157	Mrs Laurence Vichnievsky has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u158	This amendment is in line with the previous one. The report which is already provided for in the law thanks to your initiative, Mr. Rapporteur, will make public the amount of the highest remuneration, and will have a very educational effect. I hope it will allow us to move forward. Because at the moment, Mr rapporteur, you admitted that the wording of Article 2, which provided for a cap on remuneration, was not the right one... I believe that we need to strike a balance between the service of the common good and the fair remuneration of competences, in order to have authorities and agencies of not only national but international scope, which attest to the very high level of public authorities in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u159	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u160	From now on, we can learn about the salaries of some of our country's top officials. It was on the occasion of the great debate that the amount of one was discovered, and then other remuneration of the presidents of State agencies. As Thierry Benoit said in the general discussion, we cannot ask the elected representatives for transparency without asking those who have more power than the elected ones. For, let us not tell a story: we have delegated our power to the independent authorities you are talking about – in some cases too much, in my personal opinion. It is therefore normal that this remuneration should be subject to debate. If this debate takes place, it must be in the National Assembly and the Senate. National representation must be able to determine the amount of remuneration. For in the end, whether you want it or not, it is we who are accountable to the French for the remuneration that is paid from the public contributions. Just as we are responsible for the use of these contributions, we must be able to be responsible, now that debate is possible, for the amount of remuneration within these agencies. Finally, I do not think that the current level of remuneration is a problem. Quite frankly, it is enough to attract competent people. Other than bounty hunters are ready to serve the state.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u161	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u162	Ms. Vichnievsky referred to the "fair remuneration" of competencies. But what is she? We can see very well the race to the peaks that is expected for some, while international competition is pushing their revenues upwards. In the public sector, the Minister cited the Opera and the CNES. In the private sector, the same will happen: French CEOs, like their American counterparts, Total's CEO and Exxon's CEO, will be wage inflation. But on the other hand, in order to establish the level of compensation for employees, we do not rely on the countries with the highest wages, but we turn to the countries of Eastern Europe, or even Asia, in a race at least supposedly. What, then, is the "fair remuneration"? Is it a matter of letting Heckscher-Ohlin's principle apply, "to the opening up of economies responds to the internal legalisation of societies", with on the one hand the upward movement of high incomes and on the other the downward movement of low incomes? My political group and I are refusing this logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u163	As all the articles of the bill were rejected, there was no need to consider amendment No. 5 on the title, and the bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u164	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u165	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u166	The next item is the debate on the bill to open the labour market to people with diabetes (No. 1432, 2608).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u167	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u168	[[Applause on all benches]] Let me begin by paying a strong tribute to Hakaroa Vallée, a 15-year-old diabetic youth – present in the public gallery to attend our debates – who is fighting with great perseverance to be able to exercise the profession of his dreams. He went all over France on all-terrain bikes – mountain bikes – and running, with the aim of raising awareness of the absurd discrimination that people with diabetes face today in order to gain access to certain professions. Yes, these discriminations are completely absurd. You know the story of Alizée Agier, a karate world champion, who was declared physically unfit to become a peacekeeper because of her type 1 diabetes, after having passed all the tests in this contest. Stories like his, although less publicized, are numerous. These are all broken dreams. In France of 2020, a person with diabetes can therefore win the title of world champion of karate but still cannot become military, police, airline pilot, air traffic controller, firefighter, steward, ship captain or even sailor in the merchant navy, to name but a few examples. Those who are already in these professions may be declared unfit or " placarded" when their condition is discovered during their career. Indeed, having diabetes or some other chronic diseases completely shuts down access to several professions without any assessment of the candidate's personal situation, actual health status and ability to manage his or her disease being conducted. How can such injustice persist? How can we explain that a diabetic capable of continuously and instantaneously controlling his blood glucose levels – thanks in particular to innovations such as glycemic holters – is still systematically excluded from certain jobs? Obsolete texts regulating access to certain professions have not undergone any real revision despite the significant therapeutic and medical advances made since several armies. At the same time, the ageing of the population will inevitably lead to an increase in the proportion of people with chronic diseases. More than 10 million people are already being cared for for a chronic disease under the long-term condition scheme. For diabetes alone, 3.3 million people are treated in France, or 5% of the population. Moreover, the discrimination created by these regulations is in addition to pre-existing difficulties, as the prevalence of diabetes is characterized by very marked social and territorial inequalities. In committee, there were many of you, ladies and gentlemen, citing the case of people with diabetes who came to your ridings and told you of similar situations. On this issue, we would do well to look at our neighbours. The United Kingdom, Canada, Ireland and the United States now accept diabetic airline pilots, provided they meet certain criteria and procedures. In the United States, patients with diabetes may also enter the police under certain conditions, particularly in the absence of a risk of hypoglycaemia or serious hyperglycaemia. In Spain, the government decided in November 2018 to remove diabetes, HIV, celiac disease and psoriasis from the list of diseases that could justify the impossibility of applying for public employment, particularly in the army and the police. Should we be content with the status quo when other countries have already amended their legislation? We will all agree: the answer is no. What are we waiting for to follow this movement? This is not the first time that the Assembly has mobilized itself on this issue and calls on the Government to take concrete action. The first topical question concerning the employment of persons with diabetes was asked to the Government in 1983! In January 2017, then-Minister Marisol Touraine undertook, in response to a question to the Government, to revise the relevant legislation. More than two years later, in March 2019, while nothing had happened in the meantime, the Minister of Solidarity and Health announced, still in response to a question to the Government, the launch of a mission led by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs and the General Inspectorate of Administration – IGAS and IGA – which was to lead to the review of these provisions. In May 2019, during the review of the Public Service Transformation Bill, the Secretary of State to the Minister of Public Affairs and Public Accounts made a commitment to develop by the end of the year the SIGYCOP competency framework, used in the army and in several public service occupations. Have any concrete measures been taken since then? Alas, no. Despite the Government's many promises, we are in 2020 and nothing has been done: no fact-finding missions have been launched; No revision of SIGYCOP took place. That is why the proposal for a law that I have the honour to present to you today on behalf of the IUD Group, Action and Independents, which the Committee on Social Affairs unanimously adopted last week, aims at finally remedying this injustice and moving from promises to deeds. I had it at the time of its filing conceived as an appeal text, but its adoption now seems indispensable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u169	It sets the stage for a necessary work to identify texts that prevent people with chronic diseases, including diabetes, from accessing training or employment. The many normative texts imposing such restrictions are now scattered to the extent that none of the people we have heard have been able to draw up an exhaustive list of them. It will be up to an interdepartmental evaluation committee, the establishment of which is provided for in Article 1, to draw up such an assessment. Its work will have to lead to a major revision of the texts it considers obsolete. This committee will act in a collegial and concerted manner, and will consist of representatives of the administrations, as well as patient associations, medical and scientific experts, and parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u170	I said this in committee and I repeat: it is not a question of opening up all regulated professions – for safety reasons in particular – to all people with diabetes and other chronic diseases, regardless of their state of health. On the other hand, it seems to me essential to go back to the prohibition, and therefore exclusion, which exist a priori against the sick, without examining on a case-by-case basis their state of health and without taking into account the technological advances which enable them to pursue a normal professional career. We must, in my view, draw inspiration from the doctrine proposed by the human rights defender, which considers that the assessment of the special conditions of aptitude must be carried out in the light of the ability of each candidate at the time of admission, and then in concrete terms, in the light of the functions to which the candidate is intended, finally, in the case of chronic or progressive illness, taking into account the existence of treatments to cure the condition or to block its evolution, or the absence of the need for such treatments. I welcome the progress that has been made together over the past few weeks to move this bill forward. Last Wednesday, the Committee on Social Affairs adopted a number of amendments aimed at extending the scope to cover all chronic diseases. Its initial objective was to put an end to the discrimination on entry into the labour market experienced by people with diabetes. As I went through my hearings, however, it seemed to me essential to extend the scope of this bill to cover all chronic diseases, for the sake of fairness but also not to stigmatize one disease rather than another. This is also the position of the human rights defender. Our colleagues in the Defence Committee had opened the way to this reflection as early as last year in a report by Bastien Lachaud and Christophe Lejeune on the fight against discrimination in the armed forces, calling into question the discrimination of HIV-positive people in the SIGYCOP competence framework. I welcome the extension adopted by the committee. I also welcome the adoption in committee of Article 2, despite the initial questions raised by the majority group, and I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the quality of our discussions. This article lays down the principle of prohibiting any general and absolute a priori exclusion of persons with chronic diseases from the labour market. I would stress this, because this section is at the heart of the bill that would have made no sense without it. The amendment tabled by the Government, which specifies the amendment adopted by the Committee, is in the same direction, and I welcome our very constructive discussions on this subject. With regard to this amendment, Madam Minister of Labour, can you confirm that all generally discriminatory provisions for chronically ill people entering the labour market will be repealed, and that the rule, in all occupations requiring special physical fitness conditions, will now require the examination on a case-by-case basis of the health status of each candidate and his or her ability to manage his or her illness in the course of his or her duties? Articles 3 and 4 complement this provision. They expect the Government to report to Parliament on the progress made by the evaluation committee, as well as on the implementation of a public communication campaign on diabetes. I am pleased that we have reached this broad consensus. The trans-partisan and unifying nature of this text, co-signed by members of six different parliamentary groups, is no longer to be demonstrated. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that we will be able to adopt this proposal today. We owe it to all the patients concerned, many of whom are closely following our work. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir and LaREM groups and on several other benches]] Finally, the drafting of a bill is the result of teamwork: I sincerely thank my colleagues and the deputy of the House who accompanied us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u171	The Minister for Labour has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u172	Everyone sees this in their surroundings: chronic diseases, including diabetes – the initial object of your bill – impose a daily struggle on those of our fellow citizens who are affected by it, including with regard to access to employment. You recalled the figures from France Santé, the rapporteur: 3.3 million people are treated for diabetes, or 5% of the French population, with very strong social and territorial inequalities – I am thinking in particular of the overseas territories. More generally, 20 million people are suffering from chronic diseases in France. I have a thought for these people – sometimes very young – and their struggle, and salutes the commitment of caregivers, relatives and associations who mobilize to confront these diseases every day, but also to work towards the construction of a truly inclusive society. This inclusive society project is fully shared by the Government. In the field of disability, this is reflected in the determined action of Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, and the ambitious measures that I defended and that you adopted during the examination of the bill on the freedom to choose his professional future. With regard to diabetes and chronic diseases more specifically, it should be recalled that the Government was acting at several levels. First of all, as Agnès Buzyn, Minister of Solidarity and Health, regularly points out, we are acting through the national health strategy 2018-2022 and social security financing laws to improve the prevention and management of these diseases, in particular to avoid complications. On the other hand, the operational objective "maintenance of employment" of the third occupational health plan – the STP 3, the implementation of which is shared between the State, the social partners, social security and prevention bodies and actors – includes action on the retention of employment of employees with chronic diseases, which is piloted by the National Agency for the Improvement of Working Conditions, ANACT. The next occupational health plan, TSP 4 for the period 2021-2025, will provide an opportunity for stakeholders to place more emphasis on this topic. Similarly, the future reform of occupational health, which is to be negotiated by the social partners in the near future, aims to further improve this monitoring by promoting better medical coverage and strengthening the links between occupational health and public health – two still very distinct areas. Nevertheless, patients with diabetes continue to face restrictions on access to certain regulated professions – which prompted you, the rapporteur, to table this bill in November 2018, just a few days away from World Diabetes Day on November 14. Created by national or international regulation, these limitations relate to various sectors: police, army, customs, security trades, firefighters, civil aviation, seafarers. In concrete terms, they take the form of a declaration of incapacity during the recruitment process or during the career if diabetes develops a posteriori. Some ministries have already begun complex work to ease these limitations in order to take more account of technological and medical developments, but it must be noted – as you have done – that the coordinated and regular mobilization of all is necessary to change speed and scale in this area. This is all the more true, as the defender of rights points out, that the scope of action must be wider, since other chronic diseases, known or to come, can be sources of discrimination of a very similar nature. The issue is therefore clear: to articulate in a fairer and more pragmatic way the principle of non-discrimination and the imperative reasons for the safety of the persons concerned, their colleagues or third parties involved in their working environment. I therefore welcome your proposal to set up an interdepartmental committee to evaluate the texts governing access to the labour market for people with chronic diseases. The establishment of such a committee, provided for in Article 1, will make it possible to carry out an overall assessment of national and international regulations in this field, in order to put an end to the work-by-trade and ministry-by-ministry reflection which currently prevails, and to the shortcomings which are known to it. However, in order for this body to produce useful work, taking into account the international standards in force, it seems essential to better link the Committee's work with the principle of non-discrimination, which you introduce in Article 2. This is the meaning of the changes of consistency proposed through the amendment to Article 2 – which everyone here agrees is the core of the subject – tabled by the Government. It provides that no one may be excluded from a recruitment procedure or from access to a traineeship or training period solely on the ground that he or she is suffering from a chronic disease. Furthermore, it states that this sole ground cannot justify a sanction, a breach of the employment relationship or a discriminatory measure, whether direct or indirect, in particular in the areas of training, reclassification, assignment, qualification, classification, occupational promotion, transfer and renewal of contracts. However, these provisions do not preclude individual decision-making following a medical examination or opinion, provided for by law or regulation, and justified by the function to which the persons concerned claim and the state of the treatment possible and their safety, that of their colleagues or that of third parties. Therefore, in order – as I repeat – not to preempt the outcome of the committee's work while respecting the deadlines set by the legislator as soon as the text is examined in committee, the following timetable for action is proposed: as soon as this bill is promulgated, the interdepartmental evaluation committee will be set up. His work will have two opportunities. First, one year after the enactment of the law at the latest, parliamentarians will have access to the Government's report, as provided for in article 3. This work will also serve as a basis for the revision of the above-mentioned restrictions. Thus, we will have a period of one year to apply the principle of non-discrimination provided for in Article 2. Then, two years after the enactment of the law, in accordance with the time limit that you have adopted in committee, section 2 will come fully into force. As you can see, this is a transparent and pragmatic method, meaning to break with the attentism of the past. Finally, I will make a comment on Article 4. Although its content does not really fall within the scope of the law – it is said that it does not want to give in legalism – the Government fully adheres to the objective and is committed to implementing a campaign to raise awareness of inclusion in the labour market. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and UDI-Agir groups.– Alain Ramadier also applauds]] In conclusion, allow me to commend your work, Madam rapporteur. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, subject to the adoption of the above-mentioned amendments, which are interrelated and not of intent, will issue an opinion in favour of the adoption of the bill, and will accordingly lift the pledge provided for in Article 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u173	In the general debate, Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u174	Nowadays, having a chronic disease – diabetes for example – limits or prohibits access to certain professions and can slow down or even compromise professional development. There are many testimonies in this regard. Discrimination in the workplace is also reflected in figures. If I take the example of diabetic patients, 16% of them feel they have been discriminated against as a result of their diabetes in their working lives or in recruitment; 23% believe that they have been discriminated against in their working lives at the time of the discovery of their diabetes; and that 33% have decided – it's not annoyance – to hide their diabetes at work, for fear of being left out or encountering difficulties. Is it normal to be afraid to say we're diabetic? Choosing to hide his illness often makes his day-to-day management more difficult. Yet many diabetics make this choice. Section 4 of this bill is of great importance here. Diabetes, like many other chronic diseases, remains associated with stereotypes that can lead to stigma. Occupational regulations still prohibit certain professions from those who suffer from them, despite immense therapeutic advances and technological changes that, for example, improve the balance of diabetes, thanks to progress in self-monitoring. I often meet young people – including Hakaroa Vallée – who ask about their professional future. I have also had the opportunity, on several occasions, to work with the French federation of diabetics, and to look at the specific difficulties caused by other chronic diseases, such as multiple sclerosis. The actors involved are doing a remarkable job. I know that there are many of us on these benches working with them. However, our role as legislator is to listen, to question us, to legislate and to monitor the application of the law. This is the meaning of Article 3 which invites us to ask ourselves about the regulations aimed at banning certain trades. I am pleased here that the hearings conducted by the rapporteur have led us to extend the scope of the text to chronic diseases as a whole. This is a welcome step towards greater inclusion in the labour market. You have recalled, Madam Minister, 20 million French are involved. We all agree, it seems to me, on the need to take stock of the relevant professional regulations. Moreover, this bill, tabled in November 2018, was largely co-signed, meeting with an echo on each of our benches. Since then – and even before – other initiatives based on the same conviction have been taken. I myself had asked the Government about this before the national representative. The Minister for Solidarity and Health then replied that it was necessary to guarantee support for employment, so that patients would not be opposed to incompatibility in principle with certain professions. The Government has undertaken a number of work on the subject, with a view to further developing the texts, without any real results so far achieved. It therefore seems to us legitimate for Parliament to take over – together with you, Madam Minister – and make itself the voice of the aspirations of our fellow citizens. Of course, it is not a question of taking risks or endangering anyone, but of demonstrating a spirit of responsibility while maintaining the safety of everyone. Thinking about this is essential. This is the meaning of Article 2 which aims to shift from a system of prohibition a priori to a system of assessment of health status on a case-by-case basis. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] It goes without saying that we support the bill proposed by our colleague, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo. Let us recall that the Committee on Social Affairs adopted it unanimously. As the Minister of Solidarity and Health said a few months ago, in response to the question I mentioned earlier: "Medicine is progressing, inclusive society must progress as well. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u175	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u176	In recent months, we have all been sensitized, perhaps even moved, by the testimony of the young Hakaroa Vallée, whom I greet. This young high school student, with diabetes, is fighting to practice the profession of his dreams. Jeanine Dubie and I would like to thank him for his commitment and his mobilization to ensure that the House finally takes up this injustice: the discrimination against people with diabetes in the labour market. This awareness-raising work has been more than useful. Most of us, admittedly, were unaware of the existence of lists of professions prohibited a priori to persons with diabetes. However, the existence of such lists seems largely unjustified, given the significant therapeutic progress made in recent years. We all have in mind – many of us cite it as an example – the case of the young karate champion, Alizée Agier, who was declared unfit to join the national police because of her diabetes, while her health condition and the treatments she followed provided her with technical access to this profession. Moreover, these arguments were taken up by the Administrative Court, which decided to set aside this decision in October 2018, which shows that the case law is, fortunately, beginning to evolve, but also and above all, that the rules in force are far out of date. Indeed, what is the relevance of regulations today that systematically prevent people with diabetes from becoming military, police, airliner, firefighter or weapons engineer? In order to put an end to a particularly discriminatory situation, the Freedom and Territory Group supports the bill, which several of us have co-signed. I thank Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, our rapporteur, for his work and his involvement on this subject. I also welcome his proposal, made as part of our committee work, to extend the scope of the bill to chronic diseases as a whole, beyond diabetes alone. We welcome this initiative, which corresponds to the reality of the growing prevalence of chronic diseases in society. It seems more than necessary to bring the regulation into line with the evolution of society. In particular, the bill invites us to adopt two important and complementary measures. On the one hand, Article 1 provides for the establishment of an interministerial committee to assess obsolete legislation regulating access to the labour market for medical reasons. This assessment should take into account medical and technological developments. The current regulations, which provide for an assessment of the occupational situation by trade, maintain misunderstanding of these lists and prevent any favourable developments. It is therefore time for the ministries concerned, as well as qualified officials, to work together in a coherent manner. On the other hand, Article 2 prohibits the a priori exclusion of diabetics from certain professions. The principle of lists, discriminatory because systematic and general, will be replaced by a system of assessment on a case-by-case basis of the suitability of candidates. This provision seems to us to be measured and reasonable because therapeutic progress must not obscure the potential barriers to the exercise of certain professions by persons with diabetes or chronic diseases. This article has given rise to some debate in committee, with some believing that the repeal of the lists would be contradictory to Article 1 providing for the evaluation of the rules in force. We repeat: on the contrary, these two provisions are complementary. The text makes it clear that the repeal of the lists "enters into force no later than two years after the enactment of this Act". Its implementation will therefore not be immediate and the time allowed for the evaluation and implementation of the provisions of Article 2, which is a key element, of the proposed law. The real progress we expect, after years of promise without follow-up, lies in this article, which guarantees that the work of evaluating the regulations will be followed by effects. Without section 2, the bill largely loses its meaning. [[MM. Michel Castellani and Alain Ramadier applaud]] For all these reasons – apart from the fact that it is a balanced, concrete, expected and indispensable text – our group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u177	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u178	Last spring, I received a firefighter, Jean-Marc, who discovered, at the age of 28, that he was suffering from type 1 diabetes. In his barracks, three people were in this case. The chief physician then showed some tolerance, accepting that they would remain in office and perform the manoeuvres normally. After his retirement, his replacement noted with surprise that there were three diabetics in the barracks and decided to apply the texts, removing them, which was felt with anxiety and anguish by Jean-Marc and his colleagues. Fortunately, the director of the departmental fire and rescue department intervened. Without taking into account the decision of the chief physician, he decided to go over the laws, to put a little roundness in all this, and to allow them to pursue their career normally, showing some intelligence in the application of the law. Jean-Marc took advantage of these years to do research, and, according to him, many of his colleagues left the profession because of diabetes; He also discovered that other professions – air hostess, train driver, sailor, SNCF controller, military... – were closed to diabetics. Clearly, the Group of the European People's Party is in favour of abolishing this discrimination. It is a case-by-case examination which must decide on the possibility of exercising these professions; diabetics should not be excluded from the outset. Otherwise, they suffer a double penalty: as if the disease was not enough, the occupational exclusion should be added. Thank you, rapporteur, for your bill; We will support her. Minister, in preparing for the review of this bill, I came across an article in Capital, entitled "Big Savings in View for Sanofi, Discontinuation of Diabetes Research." It states that "Sanofi announces the cessation of research activities in diabetes"; It also states that "Sanofi aims to increase its cash flow by about 50%". The objective is therefore no longer industrial; It is purely financial. Paul Hudson, the company's new CEO, says elsewhere that he no longer sees a future for innovation in diabetes and cardiovascular disease. For ten years, Sanofi has abolished one third of its research positions worldwide, and one third in France: 4000 in the world, 2000 in France. This could be understood if the company encountered difficulties. But, at the same time, in 2019, Sanofi paid its shareholders 3.8 billion dividends! I've done the math: it's fifty years of Telethon. These are billions that will not be devoted to research on orphan diseases, epilepsy, autism, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes. The research is massacred on the altar of shareholders. These pass before the patients, and in this case before the diabetics. In fact, they organized a protest three weeks ago in front of Sanofi's siege. It can be said that insulin tells a history of capitalism, a history of voraciousness. Almost a century ago, in 1921, four researchers from Toronto, Mac Leod, Best, Banting and Collip discovered insulin. Thanks to her, we don't die of diabetes anymore. A century later, this product became an annuity for labs, Novo, Eli Lilly and Sanofi, which do not really compete. It is 70 euros per dose in France, and it is the security that pays, i.e. ; in the United States, or in the countries of the South, the poor still do not have access to treatment and continue to die from it – there, Sanofi is denounced. Such a situation is a betrayal of the work of the Four of Toronto. Is this a model for the French? Is it moral? Is this an honorable choice? Yes, I am speaking of honour, because I discovered that on January 1st, Serge Weinberg had been made commander of the Legion of Honour. How can one explain that the leader of a company like this one, who behaves like this one, who puts profits before life – as the story of the Dépakine as the one of diabetes shows – is thus rewarded, decorated? I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u180	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u181	Diabetes figures are often presented to alert us. This way of producing figures has often reduced a reality that has been experienced and lived to statistics that are soulless and sometimes stigmatizing – I say it without reproaching the past. The purpose of the text we are looking at is to restore the fact that the victim is the one who suffers from this disease. This applies to diabetes, cancer, motor disability and many other situations that lead to discrimination in employment for those who are victims of it. It's a double penalty. This bill is welcome because, as you recall, the rapporteur, the ultramarine territories are the most affected by the disease of diabetes. Today, law would prohibit or restrict de facto access to the profession of pilot or to a large part of the military trades to nearly 50,000 Polynesians with diabetes, and perhaps an additional 22,000 undetected. Pronouncing these words is enough to acknowledge the absurdity of the law that the report casts off, rightly: it is some 70000 people who leave with a greater potential for exclusion and social marginalization, as a result of the law, out of a total population of 275,000 inhabitants. This discrimination is in addition to a precariousness already greater than that found in metropolitan France, and I am firmly convinced that this is a reasoning that applies to all the overseas territories. The identification of the men and women who are in this situation as true victims of the disease is essential and would also enable a social debate to take place. Let us not forget the many social factors that cause diabetes: yes, it is clear that society creates diabetes; It also forms part of one of the four groups of so-called "civilised" diseases. In the case of Polynesia, how can we not see that as the deficit in our trade balance increases, diabetes is increasing, meaning our growing dependence on imports? This is the direct result of colonization in the Pacific: we first explained to our ancestors that their diet was bad, and then convinced them that importing 88% of what we eat, from France and elsewhere, was a sign of progress. Perhaps I will be told that both work and health fall within the competence of Polynesia, a community with special status. But until proof to the contrary, access to military jobs is not decided by Polynesia; The same applies to the posts of State officials, such as customs officers, the national police or prison officers. As far as health competence is concerned, a remark about Heberprot-P, a Cuban medicine with proven efficacy to avoid amputation of the diabetic foot. For six years now, the Polynesians have been waiting for France to put an end to the amputation of 150 diabetic feet a year. Yes, our status is supposed to give us competence in health matters, but drugs are not involved. Marketing authorisation depends on the state. For the sake of clarity of the debate, I would like to ask a question about article 4 of the bill: will the public communication campaign also concern Polynesia and New Caledonia? In any case, the Left Democratic and Republican Group will vote for this bill, which aims to reduce the discrimination in hiring that affects people suffering from diabetes. We subscribe to it and wish for a rich debate on the causes of a social disease, as I said, a disease of civilization. [[Applause on all benches]] In conclusion, I wish to address this wonderful young man who is in the stands, and who bears a Polynesian name: Hakaroa, e te toa, kia kaha!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u182	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u183	Diabetes is a disorder in the assimilation, use and storage of sugars brought by food. This results in a high level of glucose in the blood, still called high blood glucose levels; So we're talking about hyperglycaemia. More than 3 million people in France are now suffering from diabetes. There are two types of diabetes: the most common is type 2 diabetes, which affects 92% of the population; It usually occurs in people over 40 years of age, although cases occur in adolescents and young adults. Conversely, type 1 diabetes, which affects 6% of diabetics, is generally found in young people, children, adolescents or young adults. The bill presented to us by Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo aims to open the labour market to people with diabetes. This may be surprising: today, in 2020, when you have diabetes, you are discriminated against in your choice of career and training. I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for alerting us and making us aware of the existence of this discrimination. The majority of cases of diabetes therefore occur from the age of 40, i.e. in the middle of a professional career; Thus, a person may be declared unfit 20 years after his or her start of career. Training is also closed to young people who see the career path they want to take close in front of them before they even start their career. Many colleagues have given us examples of young or younger people who, in the ridings, come to express their distress. If they are denied access to certain training or professions, special conditions of physical fitness may be necessary. However, sometimes these prohibitions make no sense: a diabetic cannot be SNCF controller; A diabetic cannot enter the National School of the Judiciary or the School of Mines. While these prohibitions were of some relevance a few decades ago, there is considerable doubt that this is still the case. Indeed, medicine has evolved a lot. Progress has been important in the management and monitoring of this disease: the daily lives of the sick are no longer really binding. The purpose of this bill is therefore to put an end to these prohibitions where necessary. However, we must not hide that for a few professions diabetes may be a danger, but it remains a minority. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the majority group and the Government have been committed to promoting a more inclusive society; This bill is in line with that. Discussions in committee, and the adoption of an amendment to Article 1, which sets up a committee whose objective is to carry out a comprehensive review of the texts regulating access to the labour market due to medical problems, have made it possible to clarify the composition and scope of this committee. We also support the publication of its work, as provided for in Article 3. However, we still do not agree with the rapporteur on Article 2. In our view, the current wording of this article immediately draws the conclusions of this work to be carried out, in so far as it lays down the principle of the prohibition of restrictions on access to employment or training as a result of these diseases. That is why our group welcomes the amendment tabled by the Government to rewrite article 2: where the original wording created a new principle, this new wording will extend the application of the principle of non-discrimination in the Labour Code to persons with chronic disease, not just diabetes. However, this amendment provides for adjustments to this principle of non-discrimination which will allow for a study on a case-by-case basis in the light of a medical examination. Following the work of the committee, which will return its work in two years' time, the prohibitions will be repealed or amended. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREMet UDI-Agir groups]] The La République group is in the process of supporting this new wording of Article 2 and will support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u184	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u185	I, like my colleagues, welcome the fight led by young Hakaroa and thank him for his presence. It was time to put an end to the discrimination that affected millions of people with chronic diseases, who were banned from certain professions, in a totally arbitrary manner. For, yes, in France, again in 2020, millions of patients, with diabetes or other pathologies, do not have the opportunity to access certain professions and trainings solely because of their state of health, even though therapeutic advances and technological innovations allow them to live quite normally. This situation is totally absurd. I recall that 3.3 million people are now being treated for diabetes in France, and that people with chronic diseases account for 15% of the working population. It was high time to consider them. It is therefore with pleasure that we are considering today the bill of our colleague, Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, whose work I would like to pay tribute to. It aims to put an end to the injustice represented by the prohibition of access a priori to certain professions. If one day they may have seemed necessary, the regulations in force no longer correspond to the medical reality. Indeed, the time has come for glycaemic self-monitoring, for insulin sensors and pumps, for all these innovations that allow diabetics to live their disease well, far from the many constraints to which they could be subjected before. Even now there are technologies, software that can regulate blood glucose levels in real time by managing insulin distribution. Today, in France, a hundred patients use this innovative process despite the high cost of the transmitter, and they will be even more numerous tomorrow. Thanks to these technological innovations, Mathieu, a type 1 diabetic resident in my constituency, has the same level of glycated hemoglobin as a non-diabetic. This allows him to delay and slow down all the complications associated with type 1 diabetes – problems of vision, kidneys, muscle problems, which were previously invoked to deny diabetics access to certain professions. So how can we justify today to a person with a chronic disease, who lives perfectly well with it, that a regulation knows better its abilities and limits than a doctor? As the doctor's order says, these texts are discriminatory. The bill we are considering today is finally correcting this injustice, and we can only congratulate them on those benches. However, during its examination in committee, all parties of the opposition combined, we deplored the errors of the majority on section 2, which is nevertheless the cornerstone of the bill. It would have been unacceptable to reduce this text to an umpteenth evaluation committee. We owe millions of sick people more than words; We owe them strong and concrete actions. The new wording of the article, proposed by the Government, seems satisfactory to us and meets the legitimate expectations of the sick. We welcome the fact that the rapporteur has extended the bill to persons with chronic diseases. Although some of these diseases certainly prevent the exercise of certain professions, it is important to grant those affected the same rights of access to employment,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u187	... the doctors, who are the only ones competent to judge the compatibility of their patient's state of health with the performance of their duties, to carry out an assessment on a case-by-case basis. We expect much from the evaluation committee provided for in Article 1. Its role is fundamental, and its work will make it possible to revise obsolete texts regulating access to work for people with chronic diseases. We will therefore remain attentive to its work and to the implementation of its recommendations. We owe the millions of people with chronic diseases who are unjustly discriminated against the equality to which they are entitled. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group supports and will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u188	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u189	I would like to thank the UDI, Action and Independent Group, in particular the rapporteur, for putting on the agenda a bill that gives us the opportunity to talk about the heroes of everyday life who are fighting, day after day, not only against the disease but also against persistent discrimination. I am thinking of Alizée Agier, a world champion of karate declared physically unfit to become a peacekeeper because of her diabetes, or of Hakaroa Vallée, a young diabetic who recently returned from a tour of France on foot and by bike. Let me pay tribute here to their struggle but also to the commitment of all those who fight against the distinctions between sick and sick, as well as the involvement of caregivers, relatives and associations. This commitment is in the long term because discrimination is of several kinds: firstly, discrimination in access to employment introduced by our body of regulations; discrimination in employment itself – at least 500,000 people with diabetes have left the labour market early because of their illness; territorial discrimination because the prevalence of diabetes is significantly higher in the ultramarine territories and in Seine-Saint-Denis; Finally, social discrimination because the prevalence of diabetes treated is twice as high among people with complementary universal health coverage than among those who do not. Social and territorial inequalities are therefore added to discrimination at work. It became essential to revise our regulations, which have become completely inadequate to the realities of today and which are the source of injustice. This includes restrictions established several decades ago to protect not only the sick person from the side effects they may experience in the professional setting, but also his/her colleagues and, sometimes, the general public. Today, these restrictions mainly apply to professions that require a driving licence, due to the risk of severe hypoglycaemia, particularly for type 1 diabetics. Yet, how can we justify today that a person with diabetes cannot even take the trainings of the National School of Civil Aviation or the École nationale supérieure maritime? Trades that are inaccessible to diabetics are not only the professions for which physical fitness is found. Many texts still refer to diabetes as a cause of incapacity for certain regulated professions. However, certain medical treatments, such as self-monitoring, as well as the trades themselves, have evolved significantly since the standards were enacted. These are rendered obsolete by this dual evolution. The general states of diabetes and diabetes, gathered in November 2017, have largely demonstrated the recent technological and therapeutic advances. The proposals that came out of it are also reflected in your bill, the rapporteur. The MODEM and related groups share, of course, as I believe, all the political groups, your objective of completely revising the list of aptitudes. In addition, I welcome your suggestion, adopted in committee, to extend to all chronic diseases the ban on the exclusion of diabetics from the labour market provided for in Article 2. This difficulty is not confined to people with diabetes alone; It is also affected by chronic patients who cannot engage in certain training courses or in certain public or private positions. As we have seen in committee, the rapporteur, this revision must be coupled with increased support for the sick. They must not be denied access to certain jobs in principle. This requires an in-depth dialogue with employers so that progress can be made in all professions. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As I said in the introduction to my remarks, the sick are waging two battles: the fight against disease and the fight against discrimination. There is a front on which we can help them; as legislators, we can improve the occupational integration of millions of French people suffering from chronic pathology and thus put an end to discrimination of another age. That is why I invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u190	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u191	I'm an old congressman from the old world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u192	Compliments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u193	Thank you! Today I wonder why we haven't thought about introducing this bill, which is absolutely extraordinary. In the year 4000 B.C., the disease is already known under the very poetic name of honey urine. In the 19th century, a medical student – he was not even a professor – the German Paul Langherans discovered the islands of Langherans. Today, these islands should be renamed "islands of discrimination". The list of professions that are prohibited for people with diabetes is incredible: aircraft and helicopter pilots, air and train controllers, train drivers, firefighters – yet firefighters treat many people with diabetes – military, police, police, and customs. This is crazy! Of course, there was a time when we did not have the means to treat diabetes and when, like epilepsy, it could be a problem in working life. But today, insulin pumps, the very good quality of insulin, and permanent self-control can, as is the case in the United States and Canada, make it possible to be a line pilot by being diabetic. This is a terrible form of discrimination faced by people with diabetes today. It is necessary to accept reasonable and reasonable control based on medical reality. This text has this extraordinary fact that it was young people who motivated us to examine it. I'm thinking about that kid who ran...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u194	He's in the stands!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u195	[[Mr. Hutin addresses the boy sitting in the public gallery, Hakaroa Vallée]] I'm sorry to talk about you, but you made things happen. You made people realize that being diabetic doesn't put you outside of society. You have the right to live, to do the same thing as everyone else. I hope and very much hope that everyone will vote on this bill. I thank Mrs Firmin Le Bodo for taking the initiative. Like many others, I could have done it, but I was suffering. But it had to be done because, at some point, that's enough! A diabetic is not a dead man or a disabled person who can't do anything. Today, a diabetic is able, according to his treatment, to do a lot of things, like all the others. One can forbid a potential candidate for the city hall of Paris who would be diabetic to present himself... I'm kidding! One can perfectly forbid a candidate for the city hall of Lyon to run because he is diabetic. That's not possible! France has about 4 million diabetics, perhaps six if we add those who do not know their condition. [[Smile]] I really encourage MPs sitting on all benches – companions, walkers, comrades, diabetic companions, diabetic walkers, diabetic comrades...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u196	And even the others!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u197	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Moetai Brother also applauds]] ... and even the others (Sorry) – to vote this bill that will be a great time to combat discrimination.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u198	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u199	Three years: this is the time it has taken, since the initial discussions, for a bill to be considered to allow people with type 1 diabetes to pursue the profession they want. This is Haka's long fight, which I greet in my turn, as well as his father – both are present in the gallery of the Chamber. Haka, this young boy that many of us know. Falling into a coma in 2016 shortly after his diabetes was declared, he did not let himself down. On the contrary, two years ago he took on the challenge of running and cycling 2,000 kilometres. From this real foot of nose to illness, Haka struggles. He called on many MPs to raise awareness of several of his demands – shared by 4 million French people now affected by diabetes. One seems to me to be a matter of common sense: to repeal decrees and decrees prohibiting certain professions for persons with diabetes. Well determined to make a difference, young Haka met the rapporteur in 2018, whose willingness to accompany him and more broadly all the diabetics in their fight is welcome. In 2019, Haka also met several ministers, including Mr Castaner, and even the President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron last April. Yet, while everyone agrees that our legislation is no longer in line with advances in medicine, no promise of concrete action has been made. What does that mean? Simply that Haka, who started his fight in third place and who will be next year at the senior level, will not be able to enrol in engineering schools such as the Mines or Saint-Cyr which he still dreams of integrating.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u200	It's shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u201	I must therefore confess my incomprehension in the face of such inaction, an incomprehension all the more so since all the members of the Committee on Social Affairs agreed that it was time to act, that this situation could not last any longer, that this difference in treatment of diabetics was no longer legitimate. It is therefore necessary to choose, as a matter of urgency, a system providing for the case by case, i.e. that takes account of the person's real physical aptitudes according to the profession he chooses. It seems to me that this would be a measure of common sense – and that is precisely what Article 2 of your bill provides for, Madam rapporteur. In the absence of such a device, we come to absurd situations, such as that of Alizée Agier, which we have been many to mention here, champion of karate world but yet declared physically unfit to become a guardian of peace because of her type 1 diabetes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u202	That's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u203	A number of countries have already adapted their legislation. I am thinking of the United Kingdom, Canada, Ireland, Spain and the United States, which accept that people with diabetes become airline pilots or police officers, provided they meet certain criteria or procedures. The same choice was made by Canada with respect to police officers. This bill received unanimous support. It has also been co-signed by six different parliamentary groups and some non-attached members – it is rare enough to be highlighted. Then why wait longer? It would be all the more incomprehensible if I recall that Minister Marisol Touraine had already committed herself, in 2017, to making a difference.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u204	We were at the end of the reign! We only had two months left...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u205	The current Minister of Health had also suggested in March that there would be change. Since then, it's radio silence. Why? The time we're wasting is wasted time for diabetics. As you pride yourself on building an ever more inclusive society, I can only be surprised that you are still waiting to act immediately so that the diabetics can finally exercise the jobs they want according to their respective abilities. This would be a strong signal not only to people with diabetes, but more generally to chronic diseases. This strong message would tell them that in France, when medicine progresses, legislation is also capable of doing so, especially when it comes to employment. Currently, more than 80% of the population aged 25 to 65 is working, but this percentage is dizzyingly falling – to 35%! – for people with a chronic active disease. [[Antoine Herth applauds]] Because the differences in treatment of diabetics are no longer acceptable and the stakes are important, I will of course vote in favour of this bill full of common sense. It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u206	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u207	First of all, I wanted to thank you, Minister, for your commitment to act quickly. It seems to me necessary to clarify this: we have collectively, including by listening to each other, become aware that there is an urgent need to act and that this discrimination, in 2020 in France, was no longer acceptable. [[Applause on several benches of the UDI-Agir, LT, LaREM, MODEM, LR and SOC groups]] You said, Madame de Vaucouleurs, that the sick had two fights to lead; We're going to help them win the one against discrimination. That is something we will do collectively, and I think we can welcome it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u208	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u209	I have before me four amendments, Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4, which can be presented together. The rapporteur has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u210	Amendment No 1 aims to clarify the name and tasks of the evaluation committee of the texts governing access to the labour market for people with chronic diseases. No. 2 aims to enable the Committee to identify not only relevant national texts, but also international texts. Amendment No 3 is drafting and No 4 is intended to include occupational health experts in the composition of the evaluation committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u212	Favourable on the whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u213	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 9, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u214	This amendment by the Government, which fully drafts article 2, is in line with the purpose of the text adopted by the Commission. That objective is right and, I repeat, we fully share it. It is essential to prevent people with chronic diseases from suffering a double penalty: the disease itself and the inability to access a job to which they could legitimately aspire, despite their motivations and efforts. Article 2 is intended to respond to this situation, but its current wording seems too restrictive; I believe that the debates we have just had confirm this. As it stands, Article 2 deals only with access to or maintenance of employment or training of persons with chronic diseases. I propose to make it very clear in the law that the principle of non-discrimination of persons on the basis of their state of health also applies to chronic diseases. This principle is set out in Article L. 1132-1 of the Labour Code and will cover all situations. People with chronic diseases will no longer have to be discriminated against not only in access to and retention in employment or training, but also in access to an internship, and this will also be necessary for mobility and career development. The Government's amendment also aims to ensure that restrictions based on chronic disease apply only on a case-by-case basis, following a medical opinion or examination. In this way, individuals will be considered individually, in terms of their state of health. The principle of non-discrimination will thus be fully guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u215	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u216	Thank you, minister, for the discussion we have had on this particular section, which is the heart of the bill. The amendment you have just supported seems to me to be a good compromise. I also thank you for reassuring us that every decision of incapacity will now be preceded by a case-by-case examination of the individual's state of health, thus ending the discriminatory system of a priori and general exclusion. The committee, on my proposal, has therefore given an opinion in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u217	Unanimous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u218	Amendment No 7 by Mrs Firmin Le Bodo is a coordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u219	On the whole of the bill, I am seized by the IUD, Act and Independent Group of the European Parliament of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u220	The minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 13, which deletes the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u221	The aim of this amendment is to lift the pledge provided for in Article 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u222	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u223	As has been said on several occasions, our work was inspired by Haka's commitment to people with diabetes, but we felt it was important and absolutely necessary to extend the scope of this bill to cover all chronic diseases. That is why I propose to change the title. The bill would now aim to "improve access to certain professions for people with chronic diseases".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u224	We have completed our review of the sections of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u225	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u226	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 48 Number of votes cast 48 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 48 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u227	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u228	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u229	The next item is the debate on the bill by Sophie Auconie and several of her colleagues on the disinherence of supplementary pensions (No. 2516, 2610).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u230	Mrs Sophie Auconia, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u231	The disinherence of supplementary pensions is a problem which, in my view, remains too unknown and which requires swift action by the legislator, particularly in view of the social situation. Thirteen billion! The stock of additional pensions threatened by disinherence amounts to EUR 13 billion. To give you an order of magnitude, this amount is equivalent to the entire budget for ecology and sustainable development in 2020. I would like each of you to take stock of that figure. Supplementary pensions are the third stage of our pension system, in addition to the mandatory basic and supplementary pension schemes. These are often company framework contracts, which allow the policyholder to accumulate capital throughout his or her working life in order to complete his or her retirement pension, knowing that the exit can be made into an annuity or capital. Nevertheless, a significant part of this savings is never claimed or returned to beneficiaries or beneficiaries. Of course, the laws Eckert, Sapin 2 and PACTE – the law on business growth and transformation – have brought various solutions to remedy this situation. The research and information requirements for insurers have been strengthened. In addition, the Caisse des dépôts et consignations was responsible for retaining the capital derived from the various insurance contracts in disinherence and organizing the publicity of the identity of their beneficiaries. However, various work by the Court of Auditors and the Supervisory and Resolution Authority has shown that progress still needs to be made with regard to supplementary pension contracts, more precisely the old stock of such contracts. The purpose of this bill is therefore to strengthen existing schemes for the protection of savers. The main difficulty I was able to identify was the lack of information available to policyholders and insurers. Insured persons, first of all, suffer from the relative unreadability of supplementary pension contracts. Contracts « Article 82 », contracts « Article 83 », contracts « Madelin », PERCO – savings plans for collective retirement... It is easy to get lost among all these devices, each with different characteristics. As a result of changes in business and domicile, or because of the increase in membership, policyholders eventually forget the savings they have been able to make, due to the lack of accessible and regular information about their acquired rights. Insurers, for their part, find it difficult to find the insured and their beneficiaries, most of the time because of a deficient or degraded database – due to a merger of companies, a merger of files, a change of program... This prevents them from maintaining long-term contact with contract holders. In this regard, I would point out that the PACTE Act has undergone a profound overhaul of the retirement savings landscape. The new products it has created will certainly help to prevent the emergence of a new flow of disinherent contracts – and I welcome this development, Madam Secretary of State to the Minister of Economy and Finance. On the other hand, the difficulty remains for the old stock. The amount at stake is, I would remind you, 13 billion, the equivalent of the ecological and sustainable development budget. Therefore, section 1 of the bill is intended to allow insurers to obtain from pension funds and the tax administration the contact details of the beneficiaries of the supplementary pension contracts, with a view to remedying the information deficit I have just mentioned. However, having heard the comments of the Financial Sector Advisory Committee – in which our colleague Daniel Labaronne represents the National Assembly – and of the various players in the sector, I will propose, by amendment, to refine this mechanism by organising the exchange of information within the framework of the Union Retraite Public Interest Grouping. It will act as a trusted third party entitled to manipulate personal data, by definition confidential. Article 2 tends to advance in time the moment when the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts is characterized. To date, insurers have no obligation to seek the beneficiaries of these contracts until the insured reaches 120 years of age. This age is far too late and I propose to move it forward to the insured's ninetieth birthday – I will explain why. Article 3 provides for a two-year experiment during which the research mission of the beneficiaries of the contracts in disenfranchisement may be entrusted to specialized bodies, after the sums relating to the contracts entrusted to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. Article 4 aims to launch a communication campaign around the Ciclade platform, an instrument through which the holders or beneficiaries of the contracts can claim their capital in disinherence, thus preserved by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. Indeed, this tool remains poorly known. Please raise the nose of your mobile phone, ladies and gentlemen, and tell me who among you knows the existence of the Ciclade platform and the use that can be made of it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u232	No one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u233	[[Smile]] Me...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u234	I see. We will discuss this again when we consider article 4. It is really important to make this tool known. One of you, to whom I spoke about the Ciclade file, found a family member's disinherited contract. I, too, found a contract in disinherence from this file. Everything becomes possible when we know the existence of this remarkable tool at our disposal! I agree, of course, that my proposals can be improved. Nevertheless, in my view, they are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u235	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u236	Contrary to the ideas received, supplementary retirement pensions do not benefit only those with the highest incomes. In 2017, the average annual pension was EUR 2340, or EUR 195 per month. Everyone can be forced, in the course of his life, to constitute a retirement savings. This is particularly the case for a large part of the middle class. Moreover, the French have been alerting us for more than a year on the question of purchasing power. We were able to see how difficult it was to meet their expectations because of the severely degraded state of our public finances. What I am proposing to you today, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, is not a painful arbitration, guided by a demand for serious budgetary measures. I propose simply to return this savings in disinherence to the French who wished to prepare their retirement, without resorting to public expenditure. The proposals contained in this text have been the subject of wide consultation with the relevant stakeholders. All the groups in the National Assembly share the view that action is needed in this area. I regret that the bill was rejected in committee by the majority. The President of the Republic had called for an act II of the quinquennium, with a different method, calling more for consultation, including with constructive opposition. Let us honor this will. The subject we are dealing with must not suffer from any political quarrel or posture. The objective of Act II was also to address the social issue in our country. I voted in favour of the tax cuts in the first part of the finance bill. We must continue to act together in favour of the purchasing power of the French. We have the opportunity here to do so without any cost to the State. I thank you in advance for following me in this direction. I am talking about the discussion of the text in a spirit of constructive openness – like you, Madam Secretary of State, I am sure. The debate will be an opportunity to enrich it and to put forward proposals that could refine the arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u238	The Parliamentary Shuttle will also continue to improve over time, in collaboration with the Senate. Let's take this opportunity! Why do we want to wait if we agree on the objectives and means proposed in this text? As we discuss pension reform, it is essential that we give all the guarantees of confidence to the French on the reliability of the funded system, for those who wish to subscribe to it. [[Smile. – Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group. – Mr. Fabrice Brun also applauds]] Clemenceau said, "You have to know what you want. When you know it, you have to have the courage to say it; When you say it, you have to have the courage to do it. Then, together, Madam Secretary of State: on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u239	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u240	Thank you for welcoming me today to consider this bill. You are right, the disinherence of savings products is an important subject for our fellow citizens who have formed savings, even modest ones, individually or through their company: this savings escape them. The fight against disinherence is an issue not only for the proper functioning of our financial system, but also for social justice. It is several billion euros that are now on inactive accounts or unliquidated life insurance and that do not benefit our citizens. This is particularly the case for retirement savings products which are the subject of this bill. The reasons for this may be multiple. Some employees benefit from a company retirement savings product subscribed by their employer without having been specifically informed. Others have lost track of the savings manager and no longer have an interlocutor to contact at the time of retirement to recover their assets. Still others are registered as beneficiaries on the insurance contract of one of their relatives without knowing it, and therefore will not receive the sums due to them on the death of the contract holder. As Mrs Auconie explains in the explanatory memorandum to her bill, combating the disinherence of these products represents a potential gain of purchasing power not negligible for our compatriots, who are entitled to recover these sums. A few figures: assets on inactive bank accounts represent €6.2 billion; Unliquidated retirement savings contracts for insured persons over 65 years of age represent EUR 5.4 billion. Ensure that the money of the accounts and contracts in disenfranchisement goes to their beneficiary guarantees a sound financial system; It is also a lever to support our country's economic activity, rather than allowing an unproductive savings to sleep; Finally, it allows our fellow citizens to exercise their rights and find themselves in sometimes complex arrangements. I stress that significant progress has been made in recent years to combat the disinherence of financial assets, under the leadership of the legislator and through a coordinated mobilisation of public and private actors. The action of the legislator has been decisive over the past decade to address financial disinherence. The Eckert law in 2014, the Sapin law in 2016 and the PACTE law in 2019 have gradually built a robust control system, preventing disinherence on inactive accounts and life insurance. They impose obligations on financial undertakings to inform and search beneficiaries or beneficiaries of inactive or disinherent accounts, and give them access to INSEE data on deaths for this purpose. They provide, after a certain period of time allowed to companies to carry out the research, for the transfer of the sums in disinherence to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. They entrust the Caisse des dépôts with the task of publishing information on a public portal and returning money upon request from the holders or beneficiaries. Finally, after 30 years, they provide for the payment of unclaimed capital to the State budget. The PACTE law has also made improvements: it has created new pension savings plans, fully portable and transferable throughout the life cycle; As a result, they are much less exposed to the risk of disinherence. The Court of Auditors drew up a positive assessment of these measures, stressing in particular the good ownership of the arrangements by the actors concerned. The opening of a right to consult data on deceased persons has greatly increased the identification of contracts to be settled: since 2015, more than 250,000 contracts have been identified. Since 2016, EUR 5.8 billion, corresponding to 9.1 million accounts, have been transferred to the Caisse des dépôts. I would like to thank the Caisse des dépôts and the financial companies for their active involvement in this project. The main players in the market have invested heavily to bring themselves into line with the new standards, or to develop tools dedicated to this objective. Despite these improvements, there is still room for improvement to address the disinherence of financial products, particularly in the area of retirement savings. The amounts returned by financial enterprises and the Caisse des dépôts are still low in terms of the valuation of the outstanding amounts concerned. The "pre-death" disinherence on non-liquidated 65-year-old pension savings plan stocks, estimated at over €5 billion, remains difficult to measure and deal with. Existing schemes are not sufficiently known to the general public, which limits their scope. I am thinking in particular of the Ciclade portal made available by the Caisse des dépôts, which you mentioned: it is obviously little known on these benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u241	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u242	That is why I thank the Member of Parliament, Sophie Auconia, for her in-depth work on this important subject and for her proposals, which give us the opportunity to exchange views in this House. We share the objective of continuing this action against disinherence, but the mechanism proposed here raises important technical questions, in terms of opportunity and feasibility – we talked about it together. The consultation of the various stakeholders, particularly in the Financial Sector Advisory Committee a few days ago, shows that the proposed solutions are not sufficiently agreed at this stage and deserve further consideration. The purpose of Article 1 is to allow insurers to consult the supplementary pension fund files in order to retrieve the details of the beneficiaries. The low quality of address data is indisputably a cause of the phenomenon of disinherence. This measure, however, raises the crucial question of the protection of personal data, but also the question of its administrative cost in relation to the expected results. Insurance companies already have the right to question the tax administration in order to obtain the contact details of potential beneficiaries, pursuant to Article L. 166 E of the Book of Tax Procedures. This will be operational in the summer of 2020. We propose to evaluate it before deciding on a new reform of the tools available. Article 2 modifies the conditions for the transfer of contracts to the Caisse des dépôts in cases where the company is not aware of the death, which is now taking place on the date when the insured person is 120 years old, an age proposed to be reduced to 90 years. The time limit for transferring funds would be reduced from ten to three years. The change in the certain age of death from 120 to 90 years and the transfer period from 10 to 3 years would create major difficulties, as many contracts could be transferred by insurers to the Caisse des dépôts without the agreement of the insured, even if they are still alive after 90 years, which is not uncommon, and before they can be identified by the companies. Savers would then lose for the future the benefit of the terms of the contract, in particular the remuneration due to them from the sums saved. Since you have cited personal cases, Madam rapporteur, I can testify that I have recently been confronted with an account transfer without our permission being sought. Article 3 allows the Caisse des dépôts to entrust, on an experimental basis, the search for beneficiaries of retirement savings contracts to specialized bodies. However, the Fund does not currently have a search mission for beneficiaries. It is simply responsible for making contract data available to citizens via the Ciclade public portal and returning the money after verification of the beneficiary's identity. As the Caisse des dépôts was not in charge of a research mission, it could not, by construction, delegate it to contractors. The imputation of an active research mission by beneficiaries to the Caisse des Dépôts would require a more in-depth impact assessment, in order to identify the appropriateness and feasibility of this proposal, as well as the dimensioning of the resources that should be allocated to it. Finally, article 4 provides for a communication campaign by the Government on the role of the Caisse des dépôts in combating disinherence, with a view to raising awareness of the Ciclade portal. While the interest of better user information is indisputable, such a measure does not fall within the legislative level. Nevertheless, I undertake to ask the Caisse des dépôts to reflect on a communication strategy that it would deploy to the general public about the Ciclade portal. The fight against disinherence is likely to lead to concrete improvements for the daily lives of the French. Disinherence funds must be able to be returned as soon as possible while ensuring the security of the system. However, this work needs to be further developed, in conjunction with stakeholders: representatives of savers, insurers and financial professionals – according to their own views. Other measures to prevent the disinherence of retirement savings contracts are also under discussion within the Financial Sector Advisory Committee, in particular to enrich the website info-retirements.fr with data on supplementary savings. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Work is therefore continuing on all the avenues envisaged to achieve this shared objective, and the Government will follow up on them when the time comes, when these proposals are sufficiently mature and completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u243	In the general debate, Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u244	With this bill, our colleague Sophie Auconia defends a laudable objective: to fight against the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts, mainly old ones. This issue of the disinherence of financial products is not new. As you said, Madam Secretary of State, the Eckert and Sapin 2 Acts have already dealt with the matter. However, the problem of disinherence has not been fully resolved. According to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, the stock of the various supplementary pension insurances not liquidated at 62 years of age amounts to EUR 13.3 billion. It is true that not everyone is retiring at that age, but at the age of 70 we see that the stock still amounts to 1.8 billion euros, with there, you will agree, a strong presumption of disinherence. Thus, a significant part of French savings is held in accounts and does not benefit from the increase in the purchasing power of their beneficiary. This bill is therefore perfectly justified and is of a public utility. In fact, current procedures have shown that what works for life insurance contracts is poorly articulated for the various supplementary pension insurances. Thanks to the CAPTE Act, progress has been made in harmonising the landscape of supplementary pensions. However, these advances concern new stocks and do not respond to the problem, which this text aims to solve, of old savings stocks. Strengthening the fight against the disinherence of savings products is important, as evidenced by the average amount of pension paid to a person in 2017: 2340 euros, or 195 euros per month – this is not negligible. The additional retirement is therefore not the prerogative of the great fortunes, but rather an instrument used by the French who make up the middle class who wish to improve their purchasing power once the time of retirement has come. In the face of the insurers' shortcomings in finding the beneficiaries of the contracts, every effort must be made to reduce the stocks of these old contracts in disinherence. Many causes have been identified for this phenomenon of disinherence. The two main ones are the oblivion of the contracts entered into, or the ignorance for the beneficiaries, and the truncated, or even partial, information of the insurers' files on the holders of the contracts. In order to solve this information problem, we invite you to adopt Amendment No 3 of the rapporteur, in Article 1. It aims to reconstruct the incomplete data of insurance companies, creating an exchange of information between them; the Union Retraite Public Interest Grouping would act as a trusted third party. This is a turnkey solution. Union pension is able to assume this role in an operational manner within 18 months, with a modest financial burden. This solution also has the merit of not posing any problems relating to the protection of personal data, which it is obviously necessary to take into consideration. I would point out that there is a broad consensus among the players in the insurance sector, including the Financial Sector Advisory Committee; It was also one of the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. In order to solve the problem of the oblivion or ignorance of beneficiaries, an amendment by the rapporteur to Article 4 proposes that the Ciclade platform, which it has advertised, be the subject of a communication so that each Frenchman can search for the stocks transferred to the Caisse des dépôts. Finally, article 3 seeks to create an experimental mechanism for the search of beneficiaries: it sets out a framework for entrusting research organizations with the task of conducting in-depth investigations of certain files transferred to the Caisse des dépôts. I would point out that, at present, the law does not set a term for supplementary retirement contracts, they are retained by the managing bodies, which means that the profits generated by these sums do not benefit from the increase in the purchasing power of the policyholders of these contracts. This situation is, you will agree, abnormal. In conclusion, our IUD group, Action et indépendants naturally supports this bill and welcomes Sophie Auconia's work on a subject which seems technical, but which is very concrete for our fellow citizens. We are therefore very surprised, as I said at the time, by the reluctance expressed by the La République Group in the Committee on Finance, through the voice of our colleague Daniel Labaronne, where all the other groups had called for this opportunity to be seized. In a busy parliamentary calendar, it would be a mistake not to use this legislative vehicle to improve the law on disinherence, when we propose turnkey, worked, concerted and constructive solutions, and the parliamentary shuttle could usefully continue. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and a few benches of the LR group]] The rapporteur quoted Clemenceau. For my part, I will quote Andy Warhol: "Time is said to change things, but in fact time is just passing and we have to change things ourselves. So, ladies and gentlemen, in order to finish today's sittings, I propose that you move things together tonight by voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u245	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u246	The bill that we are considering today is not a new idea but the result of a work of reflection that began almost fifteen years ago, which led to the first laws in France on the disinherence of financial products, taken in particular under the impetus of our colleague Senator de la Marne, Yves Détraigne. It must be noted that the issue of disinherence is not limited to the mere becoming of life insurance contracts or inactive bank accounts. Sophie Auconie's bill thus addresses the issue of the supplementary pensions that make up the third floor of our pension system. It took three laws to arrive at the Eckert law, which governs the disinherence of inactive bank accounts and life insurance. Subsequently, the aim of the Sapin 2 Act was to create a first framework for the disinherence of supplementary pensions, by introducing an obligation for insurance to inform beneficiaries. Finally, the PACTE Act ensured the possibility of transferring pension plans and defined a default date at which the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts is characterized. These texts were not perfect, but at least they had the merit of solving in part the problems of disinherence. The Auconia bill is certainly not perfect either, but it is moving in the right direction. What happens to these supplementary pension insurance contracts? The law does not set a term, they are preserved and the profits they produce become, after a certain time, exceptional profits. This situation is totally abnormal: insurances are enriched on the backs of often modest people. Let us remember, the average amount of an additional pension is 2000 euros: it is not hundreds of thousands of euros. As stated in the Charles de Courson commission, what is abnormal is the enrichment of insurance organizations that do not do their job. In 2018, the amount of contracts in disinherence was estimated at almost 13 billion euros. That is 13 billion less purchasing power for our citizens, and that is why it is now necessary to return that money to them. The bill has the merit of presenting concrete solutions, such as reducing from ten to three years the delay in triggering the process of disinherence or the launch of a major communication campaign concerning the Ciclade file – all the more necessary since according to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, if this file was the subject of more than 1.2 million consultations in 2017, they fell to only 350,000 in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u247	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u248	I, too, am very surprised by the reluctance expressed by our colleagues in the La République group to consider the bill in committee. Why not modify the text by amending it? Let us not be dogmatic, let us act with pragmatism to further improve this bill. It seems to me that we can only unanimously support such an initiative: to fight against the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts is to improve the purchasing power of the French. To justify your refusal, you refer to collective work within the Financial Sector Advisory Committee – which met twice in November 2019 and January 2020 – on ways to improve the arrangements. However, it should be noted that the draft law sets out the general principles; the technical aspects on which the Committee is working, which are not within our competence, they may be laid down by regulation. Finally, and most importantly, there is agreement on the objectives of the text and there is no major political divide. So why oppose this bill? [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] As you will have understood, the Libertés et territoires Group will vote for this balanced text, which goes in the right direction and which will strengthen the confidence of savers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u249	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u250	The bill we are looking at today is aimed at combating the disinherence of old supplementary pension contracts – contracts whose outstanding amounts have not been liquidated by the beneficiary. Thirteen billion euros: this is the total amount that was not handed over in 2018 to their legitimate beneficiaries by private insurers. The latter do not tire to return the money to the insured whose trace they lose. This is proof that we must always be wary of and regulate the use of insurance. Your proposal for a law, ladies and gentlemen, is quite right – and I will not oppose it for that reason: insured persons must be able to recover their money from private insurers' funds. Above all, to our great misfortune, it is terribly logical. You say, colleagues from the UDI-Agir Group, in the explanatory memorandum: "On the other hand, more and more employees are using this funding system to increase their pension. That's right! It is written black and white in the vicious reform of pensions imposed on us by the Government. I quote from the explanatory memorandum in clause 65 of the bill: "The insurance sector is called upon to mobilize, so that the use of these vehicles [now providing insurance for any type of retirement savings plan] becomes more widespread." The Government even explains that the new challenges of the CAPTE Act should facilitate this generalization. But the Prime Minister declared on 11 December that it would always be a system by distribution. So I'm telling the Government right in the eye: you're lying. You are lying, because what is written in your bill is absolutely contrary to all your statements in December. You are lying, because you are preparing the privatisation of our pension system in three simple steps before total privatization. First step: pensions, which belonged to the French yesterday, will pass into the hands of the state, into your hands. The French were yesterday in solidarity with each other, through a system of pension by distribution managed by their social representatives; From now on, you will have the value of the acquired point voted annually in the Assembly, all framed by a new golden rule. Our pensions will therefore be a budgetary adjustment variable like the others. You can use it like the Flunch! Second step: you impoverish the French by lowering their retirement pensions, to force them to go towards private supplementarys. This banding is also public, recognized: an advertisement by the insurer AXA, for example, recently stated that pensions would fall and that private pension savings plans would have to be subscribed to to compensate! You see, they don't even hide. Step three: You open the first gate to the private sector by organizing the flight to this sector of the highest wages in the country. From 10000 euros per month, only 2.8% will be contributed. This measure, Madam Secretary of State, will cost our pension system €72 billion between 2025 and 2040, more than five times the amount of the so-called deficit that would cause the death of our current system. These are the famous transition costs that you admit, but which we parliamentarians will not even have the right to know the amount before we legislate. I know why you want to rush the French into the gulf of funded pensions: private insurers whisper to your accomplices that it would be more profitable for the French to finance their pensions. You're lobotomized by BlackRock, Natixis and AXA. But, sorry to tell you, everything shows that private is always more expensive. For in a private pension system, we pay for useless things: we pay for advertising, because insurers eat each other; the indecent wages of the big bosses are paid; We pay the dividends of the shareholders above all. We pay, we pay, we pay... In exchange for what? It's a nombrilist service that aims to make money on your back, not to protect you. This is the difference between a citizen and a consumer. In the end, you would dream that the French would be like you: small blind soldiers of financial capitalism, who privatize their own future, their own retreat. What you are doing is dangerous for the French because placing pensions in the steel gloves of the financial sector is taking the risk that everything will go up in smoke at the next financial crisis. History taught us, but did you learn the story? Remember the 2008 stock market crash that crushes American pensions: more than 50 million of them lose years of savings. In Chile, that's not much better. Is that what inspires you? You're walking countersense to history. For the future is not in the financialization of our entire existence, but in the solidarity and security of our journeys of life! Moreover, it was largely the system of solidarity with French which prevented popular consumption from sinking between 2009 and 2012, and France from entering into recession. You have no pride, no pride in our pension system: "the Smarties," you dared, Madam Secretary of State! Yet it is one of the best performers in the world, which creates the least number of poor pensioners. I'm proud of our pension system. I am proud of what the employees of this country have done. I'm proud that the strikers are defending our children's pensions. Fear that one day we will come to power because if unfortunately your pension bill passes – which I doubt – when the Macron quinquennium ends up in the trash of history, we will personally send your law to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u251	Oh, threats!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u252	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u253	While the Government has presented its pension reform to the Council of Ministers on Friday and will soon arrive in the Assembly, the IDU-Agir members propose to study a text on supplementary pensions. Today, it is possible, through regulated savings products, to complete its general pension, consisting of a basic pension and a supplementary pension, by means of an additional pension based on capitalisation. It takes the form of the famous PERCO, collective plans, or individual retirement plans. However, additional pensions are still products that are not favoured by the French: the stock is close to EUR 324 billion, while that of life insurance, for example, is around EUR 1700 billion. It must be said that despite its shortcomings, the current system of pensions, by distribution and per annuities, allows the French to obtain defined benefits, with a relatively good replacement rate, which exempts a large part of them from using capitalisation. The distributional system even makes it possible to correct in part the inequalities since the poverty rate among pensioners is about 7.5 per cent, while it is 14.7 per cent for the population as a whole. Despite these elements, the current majority, with the assistance of the UDI-Agir group, is about to dismantle our pension system. At the key, more random pensions for all French as well as a reduction of the contribution ceiling to 120000 euros for the most affluent. The result of the manoeuvre is clearly explained in section 65 of the bill: the French will have to rely on supplementary funded pensions. However, the UDI-Agir group does not seem to be at a close contradiction. While he supports the pension reform project, his bill puts forward one of the perverse effects of funded retirement: disinherence. Although the scale of the phenomenon must be relativised, since dormant pension savings schemes represent only EUR 13 billion out of the 324 billion outstanding, the demonstration of the UDI-Agir group is very successful and highlights a problem that would certainly not arise in a distributed system. On this point, we share the IDU's finding that the funded pension system is harmful. However, once this has been established, how can you explain that you are promoting funded pensions by helping to reform pensions, especially since the state will have to pay for the broken pots? Finally, this is the project: that each Frenchman open his savings plan for collective retirement – PERCO – or his individual retirement savings plan and that the state then passes behind insurers and banks in order to correct errors and solve problems caused by the disconnection of the pension system. In this way, it would be up to the taxpayer to pay for advertising campaigns and investigative firms to find dormant account holders. Rather than the complications that will cost the state money, let me suggest an idea if you want to fight effectively against the disinherence of additional pensions: the establishment of a fully integrated pension system, which would solve the problem much more easily. It was in this spirit that the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left had tabled an amendment aimed at abolishing mandatory PERCOs for two reasons: the system of pay-as-you-go pension is the only one that must be compulsory and it is not normal to oblige an employee to capitalize on his retirement; Secondly, in order to combat the disinherence of pension savings schemes, it is essential that the opening of such an investment be at the initiative of the employee and not an obligation of the undertaking. I would therefore like to reiterate my group's opposition to funded retirement, whether in the current system or in the one that the Government wishes to impose on us. Even if it is not up to the state to solve the problems created by pension funding, we are aware that the majority of the poor are those small savers, especially those who are obliged to subscribe to a pension savings plan when they arrive in the company and who will not receive any profit, for lack of necessary information. In these circumstances, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain from voting on this bill. Mauruuru e te aroha ia rahi. (Thank you, in all friendship and fraternity.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u254	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u255	On behalf of the La République Group on the move, I congratulate Mr Auconie on his approach and the quality of his work. With this bill, it seeks to provide legal solutions to the phenomenon of the disinherence of supplementary pensions, which poses economic and technical problems, particularly because of the long duration of contracts: it deprives the French of more than 10 billion euros of purchasing power; it causes the loss of a large amount of information; it destroys trust in retirement savings products. In the face of these difficulties, one might say that a bill is welcome. However, our group will vote against this text because the solutions proposed, which we have carefully examined, seem to us dangerous for the protection of the data of the insured, advantageous for the insurers, and curious from the point of view of the approach taken. Article 1 poses a danger to the protection of individual data: insurers or private pension savings organizations would have the possibility to question the tax administration and the basic or supplementary pension funds in order to obtain the personal data of the holders of these supplementary insurance contracts, without their consent. This mechanism should be assessed against the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR – and the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL. The consumer associations are not in favour of this advantageous scheme, I would stress, for insurers to the detriment of consumers. If we adopt Article 2, we would reduce the requirement for insurers to search for insured persons by 30 years. At present, insurers are obliged to search for policyholders or their beneficiaries until the insured has reached the age of 120. If this article were adopted, they would no longer be obliged to carry out research from the moment the insured reached the age of 90. Why offer private supplementary pension organizations the opportunity to free themselves earlier from their obligations to search for policyholders to the detriment of them? I repeat: the measure is beneficial to insurers, but I do not think it is beneficial to insured persons. Since insurers are aware of their moral, ethical and economic obligations to policyholders, they are not in favour of this provision. Finally, the provisions provided for in Article 3 seem curious to us in view of the public policy problem that is posed: the Caisse des dépôts et consignations – CDC – would be encouraged to delegate to private companies the search for beneficiaries and beneficiaries of supplementary pension insurance contracts. It seems strange to include in the law, the resolution of a public order problem by private actors, even if it is an experiment. As far as Article 4 is concerned, I would point out that the CDC is already in charge of the communication of the service of general interest Ciclade. It is true that the CDC could do better, and I have heard the Secretary of State say that she would intervene in that direction. Nevertheless, the problem of the disinherence of supplementary pension contracts remains. I recall that the Financial Sector Advisory Committee – CCSF – has sought solutions to this problem. The CCSF has a huge interest in bringing together all relevant players around the table: insurers, brokers, consumer and savers associations, representatives of trade unions and employers. However, the CCSF did not support the provisions of this bill. Perhaps it is necessary to take into account the advisory opinion of the economic partners... Otherwise, these advisory bodies are useless. The work currently under way has recently led to the unanimous adoption of a recommendation at the plenary meeting that is consensus among all stakeholders, protecting personal data and giving priority to consumers. This recommendation has been included in an amendment which, it should be stressed, is in contradiction with Article 1. The CCSF's proposal is to place at the centre of the scheme a public trust third party, the Public Interest Group – IPG – Union Retraite, to which the insurance organisations would trace the information they hold about the policyholders. The IPTF would then bring the information down to the attention of all concerned through its retirement info site. This mechanism is based on a philosophy radically different from that underlying Article 1. In the CCSF proposal, the consumer retains control of his personal information, which is not the case with Article 1 which allows insurers to dispose of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u256	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u257	That is why we are not in favour of this mechanism. If the idea of the IPTF Union as a trusted third party has indeed been taken up in an amendment by the rapporteur, it is contrary to the general philosophy of the text with which we disagree. Our group has therefore chosen to vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u258	Mr. Labaronne may have exceeded her speaking time by more than a minute, it's not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u259	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor. Let me remind you that you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u260	The bill that we are pleased to consider is about the disinherence of additional pensions. Dear colleague, we are very pleased that you are making such an important subject live. It must take our full attention because it affects the purchasing power of the French and also because it must respond to an even more essential need: to trust the economic actors, to a system that can surpass us and unfortunately lose us. That is why I would like to begin by thanking you, dear colleague Auconia, as well as the entire UDI-Agir and Independent Group, for highlighting the issue of the disinherence of supplementary pensions. The proposed measures are intended to reduce the number of additional retirements in need and to speed up the recipient search processes for life insurance and capitalization accounts as a whole. The members of the MODEM and related groups agree with these objectives. In the context of a deteriorating state of public finances, the return to the French of their destitute retirement savings assets would increase their purchasing power. We'd be wrong to get rid of it. [[Smile]] Moreover, an action against the disinherence of these additional retreats would correct a profound injustice between those who know how to use the Ciclade site and those who do not know how to do so, between those who can search in several formats and others. I did the exercise myself, but I didn't find an account in my name. Since my last name consists of two words separated from a space and with a letter surmounted by a trema, I wonder how it will be saved in this file. This is the kind of simple and honest questioning that you have managed to highlight. The non-perception by insured persons of the fruits of their savings is not fair. You know how much our group is committed to this search for justice. The amounts, which I am just repeating, have iced us: 13 billion euros are at stake. It's huge. This situation is not satisfactory. Certainly the law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE law, will continue to reduce the phenomenon of disinherence, but it seems to us right and important to treat the subject as you do even if we can make improvements to your text. Your text has indeed given rise to debate. Some people are wondering about the experimental device or the deadlines for application, points which will be specified in several amendments, as you mentioned in your opening remarks. It should be noted, however, that these questions relate to implementation but not to substance. Of course we insist on the need to communicate on Ciclade, but we cannot oppose a text whose philosophy we agree with. We will pay attention to the fate that will be reserved for your amendments. However, in view of the debates in committee, although we are not opposed to the spirit of the text, I believe that we will unfortunately abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u261	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u262	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u263	Thirteen billion euros. This would be the amount of the additional unliquidated pension contracts, in 2018, according to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority – ACPR. This means that every year, every month, French people do not receive the additional pension due to them, even though they have contributed and spared from an insurance company, a mutual fund or a welfare organization. It would be silly because this capital was never claimed, because the insured forgot it, or because he didn't know about it. Or, this capital was not returned because of a lack of information, because the recipient's contact details are no longer the correct ones or because the contracting company has disappeared. There is a problem with the traceability of insured persons. When we know that in its report published in 2018, the CPRA indicates that the number of undistributed folds is 75% for those aged over 70, it is said that pension disinherence must be the subject of a more effective public policy. So, of course, we can welcome the Eckert law on inactive bank accounts and life insurance contracts in disinherence, adopted in 2014. Under this Act, the research obligations of life insurance recipients, applicable to insurers, have been strengthened. Above all, a new procedure for managing disinherited savings has been put in place. At the time of the termination of the contract or if the insured dies, it is for the insurers to initiate research in favour of the beneficiaries. This research can last up to ten years. If they do not give anything, the sums are transferred to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. As a result, the Ciclade site allows beneficiaries to recover their capital for 30 years. This should obviously be welcomed. But while outstanding unliquidated contracts in stock among insurers have gradually declined from €5.4 billion in 2015 to €4.7 billion in 2017, the account is still not for supplementary pensions because they are not covered by this scheme. In its 2019 annual public report, the Court of Auditors took stock of the Eckert law and stressed: "The scheme has not yet reached its "cruising regime". The results of the first two years of processing by banks and insurers and the amounts retained by the Caisse des dépôts tend to show that the clearance of old stocks is not complete and that erosion is slow. She added: "The practice shows difficulties of application in some cases, requiring legislative adjustments as well as improvements in the internal management processes of banks and insurers. » Savings products are increasingly being used by the French. The Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics – DREES – thus estimates, in its 2019 pension study, that in 2017, 13.1 million people held an additional pension contract under way with insurance companies. These additional incomes, if not mirbolic, are still a significant boost for households. In 2017, they represented an annual amount of 2340 euros, or 195 euros per month for subscribers. It is this type of additional income that allows pensioners to face an economic environment that is often tense for them. While the purchasing power of pensioners has been declining by 6% since the early 1990s, it is a good thing that the text proposes additional resources for the search for beneficiaries by expanding the possibility for institutions to rely on documents from pension funds. It is also a good thing to reduce the time taken to transfer stocks to the Caisse des dépôts: the unique Ciclade site will become accessible to all, at least we can hope. Another step forward is to experiment with the search for beneficiaries of outstanding supplementary retirement contracts in disenfranchisement with specialized and voluntary bodies. Finally, and I welcome this, the bill calls for better information on the Ciclade site: it is too little known to the French, even though it could inform them about whether the Caisse des dépôts owns funds that belong to them. Because all these provisions are in the right direction, I will, of course, vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u264	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u265	I will begin by replying to the Secretary of State, Daniel Labaronne and Sarah El Haïry on the confidentiality of personal data provided for in Article 1. Following the various hearings of the representatives of the Advisory Committee of the Financial Sector – CCSF – those of the Fédération française des assurances or those of the Union retraite GIP, it appeared, because of the confidentiality of personal data, the general regulation on data protection – GDPR – and the missions of the CNIL, that it was appropriate to have recourse to a trusted third party who already works with life insurance and complementary insurance. Thus, the first amendment we are going to consider, Amendment No 3, provides for the exchange of information by means of a convention between the IPTF Union and the various bodies proposing additional pension products. Therefore, the reservations expressed about confidentiality are no longer necessary since we intend to use a third of confidence already operational. You are right, Mr Castellani: the communication on the disinherence of bank accounts and life insurance is insufficient. In 2017, after a press campaign, not a general public, the Ciclade site was accessed 1.35 million times. The following year, visits fell to 350,000 due to the cessation of any communication action. It is essential to change the rules in this area and this is precisely the purpose of Article 3. We must bring back the default starting point of the beneficiary's search period of the insurance contract to the insured's ninetieth anniversary so that beneficiaries can have access to it through the Ciclade file or as part of an experimental action assuming that the Caisse des dépôts et consignations takes a dynamic approach to the search of the actors, to which it does not lend itself today. It is essential for the Caisse des dépôts, like insurers, to carry out an offensive search for rightholders or beneficiaries. This would not be detrimental to beneficiaries or to insurers; On the contrary, it would allow the identification of beneficiaries and beneficiaries. Such research is not currently taking place and would indeed deserve to be included in the law. The implementation of this experiment could be the subject of an annex document published by the departments of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, specifying the conditions for this new working method of the CDC. As for Daniel Labaronne's conclusion, I would like to point out that we have met all the actors mentioned. We have noted, it is true, their reticence with regard to Article 1e r and took note of their various requests on the other sections of the bill – hence the various amendments that we have tabled. It is important that we continue to enrich the text together so that it can be implemented as quickly as possible. We must restore confidence in our fellow citizens by improving their purchasing power and by finding the beneficiaries of old stock stocks. We wish to facilitate the transfer of the sums concerned to the accounts of the French rather than those of the insurers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u266	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u267	I have already spoken during the presentation of the text, so I shall limit my speech to a few factual elements in response to Mr Coquerel. First, the reform of the pension system proposed by the Government focuses on a distributed system, which covers a very broad scope. It will create a single common fund in place of the current 42 caisses. It is therefore in the direction of mutualisation of risks and greater solidarity. Secondly, for the first time, high wages will pay for solidarity, up to a contribution of 2.8%. I would also point out that the threshold beyond which high wages will no longer pay old-age contributions – the famous "three PASS", three annual social security ceilings – was suggested by Thomas Piketty in a 2008 book.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u268	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u269	I do not believe that he was then inspired by unbridled liberalism. Thirdly, pensions are not going to fall. Fourthly, the main pension fund in France, Prefon Retraite, is intended for civil servants and managed by trade union organisations. Fifthly, my reference to a confectionery was not about French pensions, but about the ultra-reduced market that might be of interest to possible pension funds at the end of our reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u270	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text. On Amendment No 3, I am seized by the IDU, Action and Independent Groups and the Republic on the move of a request for a public vote. I am also seized, by the same groups, of a request for public ballots on articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u271	I call Mrs Auconia to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u272	As I explained earlier, after hearing various stakeholders proposing additional pension products and ways to put the accounts back on the market, we have chosen to organise the exchange of information by way of a convention between the IPTF Pension Union and the organisations offering additional pension products. At the hearing of the representatives of the retired IPTF, I was confirmed that the scheme did not raise any technical difficulties and that it could be applicable within 18 months. The amendment therefore addresses the first difficulty associated with the disinherence of supplementary pensions. He pointed out that the exchange of information between the IPTF and the various bodies offering additional pension products would aim to provide policyholders with a vision of their acquired pension savings rights. While existing law facilitates the search for the beneficiaries of contracts after the holder's death, this measure will allow subscribers to benefit from their savings during their lifetime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u273	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u274	Unfavorable. Of course, in its various work, and in particular in its opinion of 21 January, the CCSF recommended the use of the retired IPTF. Both organizations are currently working on a convention. This step, which is in the right direction, began before the bill was introduced. However, the wording of the amendment is not appropriate since the tasks of the retired IPTF should be changed. Unfortunately, therefore, the amendment does not achieve the objective that you are pursuing, Madam rapporteur. If I agree with the idea behind it, it is necessary first of all to seek the opinion of the board of the retired IPTF and, I repeat, to amend the tasks of the group so that it can legally fulfil the tasks which you intend to assign to it. It is therefore for a technical reason that my opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u275	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u276	This amendment is obviously interesting, but what is its connection to Article 1 on data confidentiality? This question could perhaps be ignored, but the remark made by the Secretary of State is entirely relevant. It is not enough to decree that the task of informing insured persons will be entrusted to the retired IPTF. First, the Board of Directors must approve this provision. It is then necessary to consider a convention that would allow insurers to trace information back to the IPTF, but also to define the financing arrangements for the scheme and, at the operational level, to include a new heading, alongside that for supplementary basic pension contracts, for supplementary retirement. The CCSF has recommended the use of IPTF, but important work still needs to be done to ensure that the scheme is operational. All the players, whether they are insurers, brokers, consumer and savers associations, or companies, also say this: you still have to work a lot! Let us not therefore believe that this simple idea could be applied as quickly as possible. It's not that simple, be careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u277	I put Amendment No. 3 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u278	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 32 Number of votes cast 31 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 18 Against 13
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u279	Article 2 is no longer the subject of a public ballot. I shall therefore put it to the vote by show of hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u280	On Amendments Nos 6 and 5, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 6 by Mrs Sophie Auconia is editorial. What is the Government's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u281	It is drafting, of course, but it concerns a provision with which we do not agree: replacing the verb "transfer" with the verb "trust" does not change the case. Here, the Caisse des dépôts is being asked to delegate a search mission for those entitled to contracts which it does not currently perform, being neither equipped nor competent nor mandated to do so. The amendment simply does not work. This does not change the fact that the underlying idea is generous and gains support. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u282	I put Amendment No. 6 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u283	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 34 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 20 Against 14
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u284	Amendment No 5 by Mrs Sophie Auconia is being defended. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u285	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u286	I put Amendment No. 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u287	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 33 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 19 Against 14
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u288	I put to the vote Rule 3, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u289	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 35 Number of votes cast 31 Absolute majority 16 For adoption 18 Against 13
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u290	[[Exclaims on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] On Amendment No 4, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 4 by Mrs Sophie Auconia is being defended. What is the Government's opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u291	As I said in my opening remarks, imposing deposits in the law on the Caisse is not a good legal measure. I made a commitment to ask the Caisse des dépôts to make this system known, but it really has nothing to do with the law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u292	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u293	I ask for a suspension of the sitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u294	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u295	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u296	The meeting was resumed. Before we proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4, I should like to inform you that, on Amendment No 1, as well as on the whole bill, I have before me a request for public ballots by the La République en marche group. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. I put Amendment No. 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u297	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 38 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 20 Against 17
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u298	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u299	I put to the vote Rule 4, as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u300	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 39 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 19 Against 18
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u301	[[Protests on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u302	[["We're hungry! » on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] You are wrong to protest: I voted like you, and the article was adopted with one vote! You will all understand, we are not in favour of the funded pension system; But we still prefer that the beneficiaries can recover their dues instead of remaining in private funds. I would like to recall that the CPRA pointed out in its report to Parliament for 2018 that the amount of unliquidated supplementary retirement savings contracts amounted to EUR 13 billion. If one can hope that some of their natural beneficiaries will recover their share of the sum, that will not be the case for all. We therefore propose that the unclaimed amounts go not to the state budget, as is the case today, but to the old-age insurance fund of the subscriber's attachment, which would be a way of favouring the system by allocation from the funded system. This will be all the more necessary if the pension bill is to be passed, which I do not hope. I would like, Madam Secretary of State, to stop referring to the case of Prefon in a context where the funded system is quite marginal, contrary to the regime that you want to introduce and which will generalize it. This is really not an adequate answer; Unfortunately, this is becoming a habit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u303	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u304	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u305	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u306	First, if I have allowed myself to mention Prefon, it is because it is the largest capitalization fund available today. I would remind you that life insurance savings amount to almost 1,800 billion euros; If it's a private market, it's that one! I imagine that private actors specializing in asset placement have been interested in it for a long time. So what you're saying is not true. Turning to your amendment, I would like to point out that the transfer of funds after thirty years of disinherence from the Caisse des dépôts to the State budget is intended to contribute to the financing of the general interest, i.e. national education or the ecological transition, to name but a few examples. That doesn't seem illegitimate to me. I would add that these amounts remain limited – 230 million euros have been transferred to the State since 2016, an average of 58 million euros per year – and would therefore not at all meet the objective you are pursuing, while the pension reform that we have decided specifically aims, through its universality, to meet it. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment and generally disagree with the way in which you present this reform that we are defending.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u307	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u308	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 40 Number of votes cast 32 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 6 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u309	We shall proceed to the vote... Madam Secretary of State, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u310	[[Protests on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I ask for a short suspension of the sitting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u311	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u312	It's unworthy to use these old strings!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u313	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u314	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u315	To the vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u316	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the groups may wish to speak on their vote before a whole piece of legislation is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u317	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u318	We talked earlier about political posture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u319	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u320	I think that's really the case here. Article 1 would allow insurers to search for your personal data... And you accept it, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u321	We're asking!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u322	[[Exclaims on several benches of the UDI-Agir group]] Just two days ago the European Data Protection Day took place, and you support an article that would allow insurance companies to pick them up without your consent! You agree with such a provision, including an act.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u323	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u324	The rapporteur does not agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u325	Madam rapporteur, do not interrupt, let us allow the debate to take place until the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u326	Your amendment to Article 1, the rapporteur, appeals to the IPTF, which is contradictory to the very nature of this article, which gives the possibility to search for personal data through insurers. The second problem is that you reduce the rights of insured persons by reducing, in section 2, the length of time insurance companies are required to search for eligible persons as you lower the required age from 120 years to 90 years. The insured will be grateful! Third problem: you propose in Article 3 an experiment but, even if the idea is in itself interesting, is it the law to issue injunctions to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations? Is it up to the law to tell the Caisse des dépôts et consignations what it must do about communication?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u327	Yes, the legislator can do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u328	Why not?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u329	All of this seems to me to be above all a lack of realism. And I would point out that the Financial Sector Advisory Committee has expressed the strongest reservations about all of these provisions. Since you do not take account of the opinion of the joint economic bodies, that is what we are achieving.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u330	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u331	[[Approvals on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] I want to reassure Mr. Labaronne: not only does the UDI-Agir group know what it is doing and assumes – which you were right to point out – but if it came up with a difficulty, we would trust the parliamentary shuttle, during which the wisdom of the Senate and the return to the National Assembly would allow us to deepen the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u332	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u333	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u334	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 43 Number of votes cast 40 Absolute majority 21 For adoption 20 Against 20
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-30-O1131.u335	Next sitting, Tuesday, 4 February 2020, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
