ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of two bills, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the ratification of two international treaties and the approval of an international agreement (No. 531, 2559; 1977, 2560). As these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put to the vote each of them, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u2	The next item is the discussion of the draft law, adopted by the Senate, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, authorizing the approval of the protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia implementing the agreement signed in Brussels on 19 April 2013 between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia concerning the readmission of persons residing illegally (No. 2065, 2555).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u3	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u4	The European Union, as you know, is seeking, on migration issues, to develop better internal coordination within the Union – this is the whole meaning of our action to revise the Schengen Agreement, within the framework of the Dublin process – but also to maintain simpler, more explicit and more structured relations with the states in its immediate vicinity, allowing us to re-create confidence and coordination on this important subject, which is of course not the only one around which we work with these countries, but which represents an important part of the dialogue. The Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia signed, on 27 October 2016 in Paris, a bilateral protocol implementing the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally. This bilateral protocol of application is subject to your review this morning. Negotiations with Armenia had begun in February 2014, following a visit to Paris by the head of the Armenian National Migration Service, Mr Yeganyan. In November 2014, a draft implementing protocol was sent by the French Ministry of the Interior to the Armenian authorities, which welcomed it. A single negotiating session was required in Paris in 2015, followed by direct exchanges between capitals to resolve the few outstanding technical issues. This ease of exchange bears witness, I believe, to the quality of the Franco-Armenian relationship. The protocol was signed on 27 October 2016, on the occasion of the visit to France of Mr Nalbandian, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Armenia. What's his object? First, the protocol stems from the desire of both States to give new impetus to already significant migration cooperation, which reflects the well-known specificity of the bilateral relationship as well as Armenia's priority on the migration issue. In accordance with Article 20 of the readmission agreement between the European Union and Armenia, the implementing protocol aims to implement the agreement very concretely. It thus specifies a number of rules specific to the parties, such as the designation of the competent authorities in the readmission procedure, border crossing points, additional means of proof of nationality and conditions for readmission, or the conditions applicable to escorts in readmission and transit procedures. It will contribute to the strengthening of already satisfactory consular cooperation and the sustainability of effective forced return procedures, within a clarified framework. I would like to make it clear that this agreement is fully compatible with our international commitments and European law. Article 9 of the implementing protocol gives escort officers the prerogative to intervene in self-defence, stating that "in the absence of law enforcement officers of the requested Party or for the purpose of assisting them", this prerogative is limited to cases presenting "immediate and serious danger" caused by the person or persons escorted during the transit or readmission operation. This provision, I would point out, is in line with Article 7 of the Council of the European Union Directive of 25 November 2003 on assistance in transit in the context of expulsion measures by air, transposed into French law by a 2006 law. Finally, the provisions of the implementing protocol involve exchanges of information and data concerning persons subject to a readmission or transit operation. As it contains provisions of a legislative nature, you know that its approval, prior to its entry into force, must be authorized by Parliament under section 53 of the Constitution. The implementing protocol strengthens the formal and legal framework for Franco-Armenian cooperation in the field of forced return of nationals and third countries established in the territory of either party. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I would add that Armenia notified France on 20 March 2017 that it had completed its internal procedure with a view to the entry into force of the Agreement. We therefore look forward to the ratification of the French Parliament for its full entry into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u5	Mrs Clémentine Autain, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u6	The configuration is a little unusual, a little unusual: a member of the opposition is a rapporteur for a text while the committee does not have the same view as her own. A former President of the National Assembly also felt in committee that we did not need to discuss international affairs so much in the Chamber; I believe, on the contrary, that this is useful and that we could even increase the number of parliamentary debates on these very important subjects, which must also involve our House. He also regretted the appointment of an opposition rapporteur on a text proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u7	We can also dissolve the people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u8	We can also dissolve the people and democracy, but I do not believe that it is the aspiration of our fellow citizens, or even that of a majority of parliamentarians! Let me turn to the text and make it clear from the outset, for all useful purposes, that the position that I am going to defend is not that of the committee. This text authorises the approval of a protocol concluded in 2016 between France and Armenia. It aims to implement an agreement signed in 2013 by the European Union and Armenia, which has already entered into force, on the readmission of illegal residents. In the preamble, because this has been the subject of debate in committee on several occasions, I would like to point out that this protocol is indeed bilateral in nature. The text will not be transposed in the same way in all Member States. As I indicated in my report, our country, along with the Benelux countries, is one of the most advanced in the ratification of the protocols implementing the readmission agreement between the European Union and Armenia; Our other European partners have obviously not seen its usefulness since they have not translated it. That is precisely the question of its usefulness that I would like to put before you this morning. Behind the technical vocabulary of a protocol that wonderfully manipulates euphemisms, using for example the pudic term "re-admission" to cover the painful reality of expulsions, his speech is obviously political, eminently political. At work, we can see in it a logic of expulsion which aims to always reduce the reception of Armenians in France: lengthening of detention periods, restriction of access to health care, limitation of the possibilities of referral to the judge of freedoms and detention, increase of expedited procedures, for example by means of video conferencing hearings, speeding up of proceedings, house arrest of asylum seekers, checks on residents of reception centres, etc. The migration policy pursued by the Government results in a permanent erosion of the rights of those fleeing poverty. The protocol on which we are speaking this morning is no exception to this liberticide. On the contrary, it accelerates it, going beyond the provisions of the agreement signed by the European Union. Article 4 of the Act is intended to facilitate expulsions, specifying the list of documents "compensating for the commencement of evidence" in the context of an application for readmission. The purpose of Article 5 is to develop hearings by telephone, video conferencing or in an administrative detention centre. Article 6 of the Convention reduces the time limits for the expulsion of arrested persons, which again deprives them of their rights, for example by preventing them from seeking asylum. The concern for speed always prevails here over the imperative of humanity, yet inscribed among our values and at the pediment of our town halls. But let us try to take a little step back on this text and let us free ourselves for a moment from its technical arrangements to attach ourselves to the faces they cover.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u9	Free yourself from your ideology, especially!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u10	I'll invite you to it! I believe, however, that democracy honors itself in allowing debate between conflicting world views, and I demand the consistency of my positions, my dear colleague. We are talking here about women and men, destinies that are, whether we like it or not, inscribed in a Franco-Armenian relationship of great wealth. Half a million of our compatriots have Armenian origins and it is in France that the largest Armenian community in Europe resides outside Russia. A century ago, France honoured itself by welcoming Armenians fleeing genocide, and from Missak Manouchian to Charles Aznavour, from Arsène Chakarian to Henri Verneuil, French and Armenians wrote together beautiful pages of history. Emmanuel Macron paid tribute, in Yerevan, during the summit of la Francophonie, to "French Armenians, workers or artists, activists or entrepreneurs, sportsmen, resistors, traders or doctors, who, through their talents and energy, have helped to build our country". With this text, we will close the door open. While Armenia is experiencing a democratic and peaceful revolution known as the "velvet" revolution, while it is waging a salutary fight against corruption while at the same time composing with the geopolitical balances we know, while it has just hosted the summit of the Francophonie and its gaze is directed towards France and Europe, we are turning ours away from Armenia. With this protocol, we refuse to open the dialogue that should allow Armenians to break out of their isolation and open up to the world, which they are now asking for. In 2018, just over 20,000 citizens of the Republic of Armenia lived in France. Armenians accounted for 2 per cent of registered asylum applications, of which 226 were accepted, or 226 persons who had legitimately applied for asylum, regardless of their conditions of entry into our territory. In these circumstances, can we refer to migratory pressure? That seems to me to be very exaggerated. Does this justify that France is now one of the most reluctant European countries to open the visa dialogue with Armenia? Does this Armenian presence in France command the spirit of velocity and severity that dominates the protocol? The Armenian thread that weaves the history of our country, do we really want to cut it? I confess that I absolutely do not understand the urgency, the need to tighten the reception conditions, at a time when the country is opening up and the number of Armenians joining France is particularly small, not constituting a threat of potential flood. A few months ago, I was speaking in this forum about the ratification of an agreement promoting the free movement of goods and capital between Armenia and the European Union; This morning, I am speaking on a text aimed at reducing the free movement of women and men. Strange balance that of a globalization that is always realized only by profit and trade: freedom is that of capital, never that of human beings to go and come as they want, or as they can. France, through the Government's migration policy, had been able to respond to refugees only by barbed wire and shipwrecks. We became accomplices to slave militias and outsourced ourselves with human trafficking. Would it not be time, ladies and gentlemen, to face the suffering produced by the texts we are signing here, far from the cries and tears? [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] On 31 December 2019, as the President of the Republic presented his wishes for the year 2020, a decree published in the Official Gazette restricted access to the care of asylum seekers. Each of the steps we take in this direction takes us away from our fundamentals: those of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, advocating human rights and freedoms, which have made our country the strength and the beautiful hours of our country. Each of these steps makes us trample on the equally fundamental rights of refugees. I therefore invite you to change course by voting against this protocol. I sincerely believe that by committing ourselves in this crazy race to the lowering of rights and the incessant increase in red tape, difficulties and constraints in gaining access to free movement, rights and freedoms, we are moving away from the fundamentals of our country. Look at our country from the point of view of rights and freedoms! I assure you, Madam Secretary of State, that the view is much more beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u12	Good intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u13	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u14	This morning we are discussing the implementation of the agreement signed in 2013 between the European Union and Armenia on the readmission of illegal residents. Our committee has been in favour of its approval, as our rapporteur has just pointed out. This bill is an opportunity to talk about the ties between our two countries. We have a friendship with Armenia rooted in history, the presence in France of a large community of Armenian origin bears witness to this: half a million French people have Armenian origins and 20,000 Armenian citizens reside in our territory. We are all aware that our cultural heritage would not be the same without the contribution of so many of our compatriots of Armenian origin. Our deep ties with the Armenian people have made us share his pains. France officially recognized the Armenian genocide in 2001, and the President of the Republic made 24 April a national day to commemorate the genocide. Our friendship must continue to be incarnate more than ever. Since the regained independence, Armenia has been pursuing a path on which there are many obstacles. Without access to the sea, with a very mountainous relief, it is landlocked. Its borders with Azerbaijan are closed due to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, as well as those with Turkey. Only those with Georgia and Iran remain open. Armenia also suffers from a very high dependence, particularly on energy, on Russia. This has greatly facilitated emigration. Before the spring 2018 Velvet Revolution, Armenia recorded a negative migration balance of 50,000 departures per year, which has led to the loss of no less than a third of its population since independence. Since the political transition of April 2018, the trend has fortunately reversed, dramatically. The spring of 2018 saw the arrival of Nikol Pachinian, emblematic figure of the protest against the previous power. The new Prime Minister has set himself the goal of modernising political life, fighting corruption and improving the economic climate to attract investment. France, which is very important, must play its full part in supporting Armenia towards its economic and social development,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u15	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u16	... towards the consolidation of its rule of law and the search for a peaceful resolution of the Nagorno-Karabagh conflict – I recall that France co-chairs the Minsk group responsible for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u18	We also have very close cooperation with Armenia in cultural matters. The French University in Yerevan welcomes more than 1000 students each year, for courses validated by a double French and Armenian diploma. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM, LaREM and LR groups]] Mobility issues are a very important issue in our cooperation. With regard to Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine, three countries, such as Armenia, belonging to the Eastern Partnership of the European Union, the readmission agreements have all resulted in the lifting of the visa requirement for short stays in the European Union. In the long run, our horizon and our wish are the liberalisation of visas for Armenian citizens, so that our relations with Armenia can be strengthened, our exchanges intensified and our fraternal ties strengthened. That is what this text is all about, and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u19	In the general debate, Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u20	We are meeting to review the implementation protocol signed in 2016 between France and Armenia on the agreement on the readmission of persons residing illegally, signed in 2013 between the European Union and Armenia. In accordance with Article 20 of the Agreement, it was up to its signatory countries to define the modalities for the application of certain provisions, which provided for a fairly wide margin of manoeuvre on important points, such as the modalities for readmission under the accelerated procedure or the procedure for hearings. It is with regard to some of these implementing arrangements, adopted within the framework of the protocol between France and Armenia, that we have made criticisms. This is the case with Article 5 of the Protocol, which deals with hearings, the aim of which is to confirm the nationality of a person residing illegally. It is envisaged that these hearings may be held by telephone or video conferencing. Such a modality, if poorly framed, can affect the normal functioning of the hearing. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, some colleagues have rightly pointed out that the speed of legal procedures makes it possible to better respect the rights of individuals; It's a reality. However, it is not necessary to confuse speed with haste: there is a great difference between quickly judging a person's situation and providing for modalities that can lead to an examination of personal situations dehumanized and expeditious – expeditious because dehumanized. In this respect, the Protocol does not provide for any safeguards. Moreover, it reveals a profound asymmetry of principle between the two parties. Article 3 provides that Armenia must issue the travel document necessary for readmission no later than three working days after the application for readmission, and that, in the event that the Armenian side does not reply, France will issue a travel document, considering that, in the absence of a reply, the request is approved by the Armenian side. This provision does not exist in the opposite direction – we have discussed it at length in committee. Some recalled that asymmetry is a fact. Again, this is a reality that cannot be denied: flows and their nature are asymmetrical. However, this is not an asymmetry of fact, but an asymmetry of procedure: whether there is a case or a thousand, the agreement should have provided for a symmetry of procedure; Even if no case arises, it is a matter of principle and respect, and the fact that this asymmetry has been accepted by Armenia is not an argument. Finally, I wanted to mention one important point: the protection of personal data. The protocol signed between the European Union and Armenia allows for the electronic transmission of a multitude of information, such as readmission requests, responses to such requests or transit requests. Personal data are contained in these documents. The agreement signed between the European Union and Armenia states that the processing of personal data, in this case, is governed by the national legislation of Armenia. However, as our colleague Laurence Dumont said in committee, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms states, concerning Armenia, that this protection is not recognised as adequate by the European Union. As I also pointed out in committee, although the impact assessment of the Franco-Armenian agreement states that Armenia has signed the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Personal Data, known as Convention No 108, there is no indication that it has been incorporated into Armenian domestic law. In other words, we do not have anything that can assure us of the protection of personal data in Armenia. In short, the protocol is presented to us as the mere resumption of a European text. However, it leaves the Member States real room for manoeuvre in its implementing rules and it appears that the protocol before us entails risks of infringement of the fundamental rights of persons. If legislation was necessary, arrangements should be applied to ensure that the examination of the situation of persons residing illegally and their return to their country of origin were carried out in accordance with their fundamental rights. Faced with a form of uncertainty and doubts that have not been removed, the Libertés et territoires group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u21	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u22	The Protocol between France and Armenia implementing the Agreement signed between the European Union and Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally is not a good text. We should start with this, since it is not possible for Communist MEPs to validate a migration agreement imposed by Brussels and for France to overtranspose it in an even more reductive way. The debate on the overtransposition of this agreement is important. I would therefore like to recall the position of the Communist Members, defended by my colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq during the examination of the text in committee. Each Member State will write its own treaty with Armenia, following negotiations between the Union and Armenia. We are therefore proposing a text rewritten by France from the basis proposed by the European Union, a text which is illustrated by a spectacular spirit of closure. It must be said that this bilateral treaty, which has emerged from multilateral negotiations, is harmful for three reasons. First, it's asymmetrical. France grants its nationals rights which Armenia will not be able to implement. This injustice alone would justify not voting for the text. Communists advocate friendship diplomacy, not diplomacy of inequality. Being strong with the weak and weak with the strong is not our vision of things. The most compelling example of this asymmetry is the non-issue of a laissez-passer by the authorities of one of the two states. When a Frenchman is refused a pass by the Armenian consular authorities, it is the French administration itself that will produce a travel document, the Armenian administration being obliged to recognize it. On the contrary, when an Armenian is refused a pass by the French consular authorities, nothing will happen: he will remain in Armenia. This is not our understanding of bilateralism and friendship relations among peoples. Second example: in order to speed up the processing of cases, the Armenian authorities will be provided with copies of readmission applications sent by France, which will not be the case for readmission applications sent by Armenia. Such asymmetry is the expression of an objective aimed only at imposing a limitation on Armenian nationals who would like to join France. That is the second reason why we will not vote for this text. One falls into the greatest dogmatism since this text, as banal as it may appear, is of amazing ferocity, while the migration of Armenians to France is extremely small: Armenians represent only 2% of asylum applications lodged in France and less than 200 expulsions per year! The third reason for our negative vote stems from the first two. We oppose the operation of this unjust liberal system, which wants the more fluid the trade in goods, for the greater happiness of multinationals, the more the movement of people is blocked! Indeed, a text was voted by Parliament this year on a comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement between the European Union and Armenia, which aims to extend the Union's sphere of economic influence in this area. Liberalize and reduce customs duties on one side – as we have also seen with CETA, the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada – prevent people from moving on the other, unless they enter into an immigration chosen by the employer: this is what is proposed. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] As President Macron said last November, it is now the French employer who will manage immigration to France, reporting on its labour needs, and who will change quotas according to its needs. The European Union – as well as France, as a good pupil – is therefore putting pressure on its border areas to liberalise trade and neighbouring economies, while tightening its migration policy towards them. All this is a matter of the same movement, of the same ideology that we fight and that we will always fight. You will understand why we will vote against this protocol.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u23	Well said, Mr. Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u24	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u25	As I may say right away, I am far more positive than the rapporteur on this text. I am, of course, attentive to the implementation of a policy of asylum, immigration and integration that respects international and national law, and I regard legal immigration as a wealth. This text encourages us to look at migration from a bilateral perspective and from a positive perspective. The Secretary of State Amélie de Montchalin recalled the particularly favourable context in which France negotiated with Armenia. This small republic needs its living forces, it knows what migration is. What we are talking about here is the readmission of people who are not destined to settle in our territory. The agreement in question was signed in the context of an increase in the flow of Armenian nationals to the European Union; Its main purpose is to establish, on a reciprocal basis, procedures for the safe identification and repatriation of persons residing illegally. France and Armenia have strong bilateral relations. Since Armenia's independence in 1991, ties have been marked by the recognition of the Armenian genocide by France in 2001, the co-mediation of France in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and French support for the conclusion, in 2017, of a comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement between Armenia and the European Union. The President of the Republic also decided in 2019 to include the French calendar on 24 April as a national day of commemoration of the Armenian genocide. These links have been further strengthened since in May 2018, the Armenian Parliament appointed the emblematic figure of the protest, Nikol Pachinian, to the post of Prime Minister. The Government had formed a largely rejuvenated Government, which had set itself the objective of modernizing political life and combating corruption without changing the country's geostrategic orientations. However, it is mainly thanks to the presence in France, since 1915, of an important community of Armenian origin that France and Armenia have developed a friendship now rooted in history. This is particularly the case in Valencia, in my constituency, where the remarkable Armenian Heritage Centre is located. The importance of this community explains in large part why France is the first host country for Armenians in Europe, with a little more than 20,000 nationals. Thus, migration has historically shaped the privileged relations between France and Armenia, as well as the common desire to further nourish our exchanges. The implementing protocol reflects the specificity of bilateral relations and Armenia's priority on the migration issue. To illustrate this, I would like to give an example of a good practice introduced by France and the European Union in the policy of returning Armenian migrants to their country. In January 2017 a new European scheme was inaugurated at the French Embassy in Yerevan: the programme for the reintegration of Armenian migrants, led by the representative in Armenia of OFII – the French Office for Immigration and Integration – and funded by the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policies. Since OFII has recognised expertise in the field of support for the return and reintegration of migrants, it has been chosen to develop in particular the component on reintegration and specific accompanying measures for Armenian migrants from the Member States of the European Union who are called upon to return to their country of origin in the context of voluntary or forced returns. The €500 million programme aims to create the conditions for the sustainable and successful reintegration of migrants by providing them with multidimensional support, including vocational training, medical care and financing of microproject start-up aid. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The La République group is therefore supporting the bill authorizing the approval of the protocol, for the reasons that I shall sum up. On the one hand, it will enable the effective implementation of the 2013 agreement between the European Union and Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, while France, I repeat, has been one of the privileged destinations of irregular immigration from Armenia for several years and Armenia is continuing its efforts to improve the readmission of its nationals. On the other hand, the protocol is part of a deepening of relations between the European Union and Armenia, within the framework of the Eastern Partnership, in particular, as the chairman of the committee has said, with a view to the liberalisation of the visa regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u26	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u27	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u28	We are meeting this morning to discuss three international texts in open session, following the request by some groups not to apply the simplified procedure originally provided for them. I will not mention at this point the bill authorizing the approval of the defence and cooperation agreements with Albania and Cyprus, because I, as rapporteur, will have the honour of presenting it earlier. However, I would like to point out that two of the simplified procedural waivers – those concerning the texts on the defence agreements with Albania and Cyprus and on the protocol between France and Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally – were decided on Tuesday morning alone, at the Conference of Presidents. Last September, as we were discussing five conventions under the traditional procedure, I had wondered about the unprecedented number of conventions examined outside the simplified procedure since the beginning of the legislature. I will not go back to the arguments that I had put forward at the time, in particular the one relating to the excellent work done on the substance of the texts by the Committee on Foreign Affairs – my recent status as rapporteur allows me to testify even more clearly. However, I would like to say that our questions remain the same: we consider this to be a form of devious parliamentary procedure, for purely political purposes, on the part of certain political groups. The examination of the draft laws before us this morning is a clear proof of this: requests for the lifting of the simplified procedure have been made concerning conventions with countries such as Armenia, Albania and even Cyprus, which is a member of the European Union; On the other hand, Vietnam, which was presented to us in committee by some as a paradise on earth, especially politically, is not the subject of such a request. For our part, we, members of the Republican Group, consider Vietnam to be a friendly country, with which we must maintain and develop friendly relations – despite its authoritarian, one-party regime, about which we would have much to say – and we make the choice not to request the lifting of the simplified procedure. There is no question of calling into question the various international agreements or using this forum to attack or challenge the policies of the countries concerned. The use of the lifting of the simplified procedure for political purposes, on the sole reading of these totems, namely the words "tax", "readmission", "Luxembourg" or "Israel", does not seem to us to be a responsible attitude. I would also like to stress once again that we have no possibility of changing the least comma of the various texts we are considering. The Republican Group therefore supports the three conventions we are discussing this morning in a public sitting – I will have the opportunity to say so as rapporteur on the defence agreements with Albania and Cyprus. With regard to the protocol between France and Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, as our colleague Guy Teissier, a great connoisseur of Armenia, said very well in committee, the rapporteur is somewhat carried away by her pro-migration prism. The best service that we can render to this country, which I love, of which we are historically and culturally close, and which occupies a special place in the heart of many of our compatriots, is to treat it like the others and not to set in place specific derogations for it. The real challenge for this country, Armenia, is to ensure that we actively participate in its development so that among its young people, France's attractiveness is reduced – because by welcoming them, we impoverish their country. Since the LR Group does not intend to participate in endless discussions which do not seem useful to us and which are far removed from the concerns of our fellow citizens, I shall now speak on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the additional protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. From the introduction of his report, Pascal Brindeau states: "France has already embarked on a process of strengthening local democracy through the establishment of mechanisms for the direct participation of citizens and voters, mainly in the early 2000s. It can therefore easily ratify the Additional Protocol, the entry into force of which does not imply any constitutional or legislative changes. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u29	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u30	I'll finish. This protocol has already been adopted by the Senate last March, and I would like to point out to our colleagues that the latter, a champion and par excellence representative of local and regional authorities, did not consider it appropriate to lift the simplified procedure for the examination of the text. As I have indicated to you, the LR Group supports the adoption of the three texts, which authorise the approval of the protocol with Armenia, the agreements with Albania and Cyprus, and the additional protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u31	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u32	This morning we have before us the draft law authorizing the approval of the protocol between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia implementing the agreement signed in Brussels on 19 April 2013 between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia concerning the readmission of persons residing illegally. This subject was the subject of intense debate in committee, which focused on both the substance and the form of the report. Having already been able to express the great reservations that this document has about its factual sincerity, I will not go back too far on this issue and concentrate on the content and expectations of the bill. This has been stressed on many occasions: it is not, contrary to what can be said, a bilateral agreement, but an agreement signed between the European Union and Armenia, which a protocol dating from 2016 specifies in its practical applications and variations. It is in this context that the text before us is part of the process. It is important to highlight the multiplicity of agreements concluded between the European Union and France with Armenia, covering both technical issues, such as this morning, as well as more economic, cultural or political provisions. This obviously reflects the depth of the relationship we continue to have with the Republic of Armenia. France, the first land of arrival for Armenians after Russia, is home in particular to a large population from this great Caucasian country. Our privileged relationship with Armenia was fuelled by our involvement in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, the recognition of the Armenian genocide and the recent displacement of the President of the Republic to hold a summit of the Francophonie. We should welcome the strength of our mutual commitment to foster friendship, despite the geography and uncertainties of history. Today, more than ever, Armenia needs strong support and trust with its closest partners, while it is in one of the most volatile areas in the world. The Eastern Partnership, launched in 2009, has some concrete consequences, the text of which is an example. The establishment of peaceful relations between States necessarily requires the establishment of clear and precise rules. The willingness of a State to deal with the problem of people living illegally on its territory was legitimate. Defining the legal conditions for a regular situation of citizens on their soil is even an essential function of States. In this regard, this text is not unbalanced, contrary to what some would suggest: it simply takes into account the asymmetry between a host country, France, and a country of emigration, Armenia. A legal framework is needed; the fact that few Armenian nationals are involved does not change it. Moreover, the fact that the Armenians signed this agreement is probably because they also found their interest in it. Finally, it is our responsibility as elected officials and legislators to ensure that the agreements signed by France are swiftly implemented; This spirit must guide us. It is also essential that France continue to support Armenia by developing legal channels of migration, which will ultimately allow us to increase the number of visas issued. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This agreement is in the context of closer links between Europe, France and Armenia. We consider it necessary; That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u33	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u34	This morning we are considering a protocol on the readmission agreement for Armenians in an irregular situation on French territory. The European Union and Armenia signed several cooperation agreements, including a new and strengthened global partnership agreement on 24 November 2017. In the area of migration, on 19 April 2013 the European Union and Armenia signed an agreement on the readmission of illegal residents, which entered into force on 1 January 2014. According to the Senate's report on this bill: "Armenia is still a certain migratory issue, without being identified as a country at major risk. The Socialist and Related Group therefore questions the usefulness of this text. Article 20 of the Europe Agreement makes it possible to conclude bilateral national implementing protocols. This Memorandum of Understanding between Armenia and France, subject to ratification, is intended to make the readmission agreement between the European Union and Armenia applicable. It thus provides, in a way, technical application, but it is not politically acceptable. Armenia is a minor migratory issue and is not a country at risk. It is also very cooperative in the fight against irregular immigration, both from the point of view of the rules of the European Union and of consular relations with France. All the more reason not to put pressure on this country with rules restricting the freedom of persons. Armenia, in its discharge, wants to be exemplary so that the European Union and its Member States can quickly give their approval for greater visa liberalisation. Armenia is a small country of 29,000 square kilometres, populated by just over 3 million people and with a diaspora of about 7 million people scattered mainly in Russia, the United States, but also in France, for about 20,000 of them. The country is relatively poor: 30 per cent of its population lives below the poverty line and the unemployment rate is almost 20 per cent. Armenia experienced a velvet revolution, at the end of which Prime Minister Serge Sarkissian was led to resign. On May 9, 2018, his main opponent, Nikol Pachinian, was appointed by Parliament to succeed him. The legislative elections of December 2018 confirmed its position by giving it a large majority. Admission to residence of Armenian nationals is obtained primarily for family reasons – 56% of the titles issued – and then for humanitarian reasons – 26% of the titles. The number of valid securities has been increasing steadily since 2013: between 2013 and 2018, it increased by 55%, from 13,000 to 20,000. Armenian immigration is an immigration of settlement, registered in the duration. Between 2017 and 2018, the number of Armenian nationals who have acceded to French nationality increased by 107 per cent, i.e., doubled. In the case of irregular immigration, France is the first or second country of destination for migrants from Armenia, but also the country of the European Union which pronounces the most expulsion measures against Armenian nationals, which may be critical of a French-speaking country. Armenian consular cooperation has already been found to be very satisfactory: the consular pass issuance rate was 78 per cent in 2016. There is therefore no need for additional measures in this area. Once again, my group therefore wonders about the usefulness of this text. We cannot speak of migratory pressure for or two thousand arrivals, particularly from a country that is a member of the International Organization of la Francophonie. That is why, as our rapporteur invites us to do, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u36	Nice intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u37	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u38	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u39	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u40	I just wanted to remind you, all of you who have just voted for or against the single clause and the bill, the context and purpose of the bill. It is not a question of limiting the possibility for Armenians to come to France, to settle there, to work there, to maintain legal ties. As in all readmission agreements, the principle is to combat illegal immigration, which too often feeds trafficking, traffickers and human smugglers, whose gainful activity is carried out at the expense of their victims. You have all stressed the seniority and intensity of the Franco-Armenian relationship, founded on the Francophonie, on our cultural ties, on our history, on the tradition of welcoming Armenians to France. I would like to stress that this text is in our common interest: it aims to facilitate cross-mobility between our countries, but within a legal framework, organised, protecting human rights and not playing the game of smugglers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] During the last six months, I have chaired the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, an institution in which France has very close relations with Armenia. It was fully understood and even hoped that, in order to strengthen our economic, cultural and academic ties, we would distinguish what we voluntarily put on the table from what we want to combat, namely the traffic inherent in illegal immigration, which, as we know, does not benefit Armenia or France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u41	That doesn't justify protocol asymmetry!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u42	The next item is the discussion of the draft law, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on cooperation in the field of defence and on cooperation in defence matters between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus (No. 1631, 2430).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u43	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u44	As we know, strategic agreements, defence agreements and cooperation agreements are extremely important texts for our bilateral relations, both in our neighbourhood and throughout the world. This morning, on behalf of the Government, I come to present the draft law authorizing the approval of two bilateral defence cooperation agreements, with Cyprus and Albania, signed in April 2017 and March 2017, respectively. The preparation and conclusion of the Franco-Cypriot Agreement and the Franco-Albanian Agreement are in very different contexts. The new Franco-Cypriot agreement will repeal the Defence Cooperation Agreement signed by the parties on 28 February 2007. Ten years later, in 2017, the aim was to extend the scope of our military and technical cooperation, taking into account our common interests, our activities within the framework of the common security and defence policy – or CSDP – of the European Union, as well as technological developments. As early as 2014, the Cypriot side had expressed the wish to extend the scope of cooperation to the exchange of experience and knowledge of the armed forces in order to deal with current threats such as terrorism, piracy, hostile acts or natural disasters, and thus to deepen with the French armies the support of the forces. Our States agreed in January 2015 to conclude a new agreement in line with these requests, and the negotiations were concluded in March 2017. As for the Franco-Albanian agreement, it aims to update and renew the legal framework for bilateral defence cooperation, so far based on a technical arrangement dating back to May 1996 and obviously rendered obsolete by Albania's accession to NATO – the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation – in 2009. In line with the recent agreements with Croatia and Lithuania, France and Albania started negotiations as early as 2012 with a view to concluding an intergovernmental agreement. The latest French proposal was finally agreed by the Albanian Council of Ministers in Tirana in March 2017. Each of the two agreements aims to strengthen French bilateral cooperation in defence matters. If I can put it this way, we see in it the beginnings of the realization of our ever-increasing desire to create a European defence, a continental power that would give us the means of genuine autonomy. This cooperation enables us to respond more forcefully to the challenges facing the parties. The Franco-Cypriot agreement pursues the objective of continuing the commitment of France and Cyprus, of which, as I recall, we are the second military partner. We are also seeking to strengthen and extend the scope of the areas of cooperation planned for 2007, in particular the training and exchange of knowledge and experience on the role of the armed forces in the fields of energy security, maritime security, early warning, evacuation of citizens and crisis management, as you know Cyprus occupies a strategic geographical position at the gates of the Middle East. The agreement also provides for wider cooperation in the fields of scientific and technical military research, armaments and defence technologies, but also, within the framework of the common security and defence policy, in the organisation, training, armaments and transport of forces in the event of European Union military operations. It should also be stressed that Cyprus is an important point of support for France in the conduct of its military operations in the eastern Mediterranean, guaranteeing the preservation of a point of free access to this strategic zone. The strengthening of our defence cooperation with Nicosia is all the more important in the context you are aware of: rising tensions in the eastern Mediterranean, a worrying increase in insecurity in the Levant, and an increased need for evacuation of nationals. On this point, I would like to inform you of the agreement reached at the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Egypt, France, Cyprus and Greece...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u45	And Italy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u46	...which took place last week, Italy being an observer of the concertation. The fourth paragraph of the final communiqué of this meeting, attended by Jean-Yves Le Drian, states: "Ministers also recalled the need for full respect for the sovereignty and sovereign rights of all States in their maritime areas in the Mediterranean. In this regard, the Ministers strongly condemned the continuation of Turkish actions in the exclusive economic zone and in the territorial waters of Cyprus. Ministers called on Turkey to immediately cease all illegal exploration activities. It seemed important to me to provide you with this clarification, since the discussion we are discussing this morning is about our cooperation in the area of security and defence. As for the Franco-Albanian agreement, it aims to allow the development of bilateral relations between our two countries. Once again, France expresses its solidarity with the Albanian people and their government after the devastating earthquake that shook the country a few weeks ago; a donors' conference, convened at the initiative of Ursula von der Leyen, France and Germany, will be held on 17 February in Brussels in support of Albania. The Franco-Albanian agreement covers all areas of cooperation in defence: organisation and operation of forces, training, armaments, equipment. The technical arrangement in force, as we know, limits Franco-Albanian cooperation. The new legal framework offered by this Agreement should allow for wider cooperation and integration of Albanian capabilities, particularly in NATO operations. The agreement with Albania will enable useful cooperation to be developed on matters of interest to both States, such as combating radicalisation, securing European maritime areas or equipping the armed forces. The agreement will also establish the status of French and Albanian staff involved in cooperation activities on the territory of the other State. I would add that, in order to strengthen our defence cooperation with Albania – which is the objective of this agreement – we will be able to rely on the defence mission that reopened last summer in Tirana, with a colonel, a defence attaché, at his head. In addition, the entry into force of the Defence Cooperation Agreement with Albania – which I hope will soon, thanks to your support – is part of the context, which you know, of France's re-engagement in the Balkans, in accordance with the inter-ministerial strategy for the Western Balkans validated in March 2019. As you know, as part of this strategy, the President of the Republic visited Serbia last July, and Jean-Yves Le Drian, Geneviève Darrieussecq and I have been providing an enhanced presence in the region since our assumption of office, which will be strengthened in the coming months. At the same time, we are currently discussing with the European Commission ways and means of firmly linking this highly important geographical area to European development. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are the main observations that I would like to bring to your attention regarding the agreement on defence cooperation between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u47	Mr Michel Herbillon, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u48	This morning our Assembly has the responsibility of authorizing the ratification of the defence agreements with two European countries: Albania and Cyprus. It is not useless, before opening the debate, to ask one another this question: what is the purpose of the defence agreements? These agreements, which bind us to many States on the planet, have a simple objective: to open up fields of cooperation with the armed forces of other countries. Some would like to reduce cooperation in the export of war material. Of course, one of the objectives is to promote, in the long term, French arms exports to Albania and Cyprus. But is it illegitimate to sell French equipment designed to meet the security concerns of two countries that are not dictatorships? Is it illegitimate to contribute, through our exports, to the Europe of defence? Would it be preferable for these countries to buy American or, worse, Russian or Chinese equipment? In addition, the two defence agreements before us include other dimensions: the exchange of experience and knowledge, the conduct of joint military exercises and the training of personnel, all of which are legitimate objectives. Let us start with the case of the agreement with the Republic of Cyprus. As everyone knows, Cyprus has been a divided island for more than forty years, and despite repeated diplomatic sequences, no major progress has been made. Obviously, everyone regrets this situation, and we can only call for the continuation of the dialogue between the two sides of the island and the guarantor powers of the Cypriot State: Greece, Turkey and the United Kingdom. In the meantime, Cyprus faces an existential threat embodied by Turkey. Although it is NATO's second largest army, Turkey adopts a more aggressive posture every day. This aggressiveness worries Cyprus. I recall that, for several months, Turkey has undertaken oil drilling in its exclusive economic zone, in direct violation of Cypriot sovereignty. Last month, Turkey went even further by signing a maritime delimitation agreement with Libya, in which it granted sovereignty over part of the exclusive economic zones claimed by Cyprus and Greece.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u49	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u50	In this context, is it not legitimate to condemn Turkey's attitude and to strengthen our cooperation with Cyprus, of which we are already the second military partner, behind Greece? Beyond the reinsurance it gives to Cyprus, France has a direct interest in the conclusion of this defence agreement: on the one hand, Cyprus is an important support point for our military operations in the Eastern Mediterranean and a stopover for operations outside the region; On the other hand, the island would be an essential platform for the evacuation of our citizens from Lebanon, knowing that it is difficult to rule out the scenario of a major crisis in the region. By comparison, our military cooperation with Albania is weaker. Albanian defence is itself quite modest, although it is slowly modernising, in line with the objectives set by NATO, which Albania joined in 2009. Nevertheless, we have an interest in developing our defence relationship with this country. First, we will benefit from enhanced cooperation on certain security issues – organized crime, drug trafficking, radicalisation – which, from close to close proximity, have an impact on our country. Albania should also be encouraged to improve relations with its main neighbours: Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Greece. Albania is a country with stabilizing influence in the Balkans, a region whose recent history has shown fragility. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Nor should we lose sight of the fact that the Balkans attract the interest of several major powers that do not always share our values. It is therefore important to strengthen ties with this region, which still aspires to join Europe. Of course, last October, France vetoed the opening of accession negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia, Madam Secretary of State. Enlargement, when it takes place without the peoples, necessarily contributes to the distrust of the European institutions: in any case, a pedagogy of enlargement with our fellow citizens will be essential to give concrete expression to the European perspective to which this region aspires.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u51	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u52	The purpose of the two agreements before us is to develop our defence cooperation with Albania and Cyprus. They have been the subject of an in-depth debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, thanks to the excellent reports by Michel Herbillon and Aude Bono-Vandorme, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Defence – I would like to thank them both. I welcome the rest of the clarification provided by the Committee on Defence on these conventions, at the intersection of diplomatic and military issues. The defence agreements with Albania and Cyprus are welcome because they will create new fields of cooperation with these two States. Tomorrow, our armies will carry out more frequent joint military exercises, strengthen knowledge exchange and feedback, organize cross-visits and develop student exchanges, which can only be beneficial to our partners and to ourselves. In addition, these two agreements create the conditions for a strengthened partnership which could favour exports of French equipment to these countries. Albania and Cyprus have legitimate security needs, as we ourselves have; To cooperate with these countries is also to help them in their own defence. Cyprus, the northern half of which is occupied by Turkey, faces many problems with its neighbour. As the Secretary of State and the rapporteur pointed out, Turkey has undertaken illegal oil drilling in the Eastern Mediterranean, the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus. In doing so, it undermines Cypriot sovereignty and European sovereignty, as Cyprus has been a member of the European Union since 2004. Together with Libya last month, Turkey concluded a maritime delimitation agreement which once again calls into question the Greek exclusive economic zone, in order to try to prolong by law what it had previously tried by force. We strongly condemn this attempt to pass through force, which, I repeat, is aimed at calling into question Cypriot sovereignty, Greek sovereignty and European sovereignty. The second defence agreement concerns Albania, which has committed itself to improving its neighbourhood relations in a still fragile region which is the subject of a war of influence by many outside countries – I am thinking of Russia, Turkey and China – but which, fortunately, is looking to Europe. Our responsibility is to open up, through the agreement with Albania, new opportunities for cooperation and partnership in areas useful to the Balkan countries and their citizens. The agreement before us will contribute, by its concrete and sectoral nature. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] More broadly, we have many challenges with our friends in the Balkans. We must do so in full solidarity with them, because we obviously have a common future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u53	In the general debate, Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u54	We cannot but note with sadness the renewed tension and conflict around the world, and the consequent need to conclude bilateral agreements on defence and cooperation. A few months ago, we passed the bill on North Macedonia's accession to NATO. I expressed my support for this accession, recalling why it was involved in a greater process of stabilisation of the Balkan region. The draft law on the agreement between France and Albania on cooperation in the field of defence will strengthen this process, in particular because it will provide an opportunity for both parties to discuss issues of common interest, such as the fight against radicalisation and terrorism or the stabilisation of the Balkans, which remain major challenges for France, Albania and Europe. Albania has been a member of NATO since 2009. This accession, it was recalled, made obsolete the previous agreement, which dates back to 1996. This agreement allows for modern bilateral cooperation, while allowing Albania to be more integrated into NATO operations. Indeed, we know that Albanian equipment, often of Soviet or Chinese origin, is aging, which can affect its interoperability. This new Franco-Albanian cooperation can therefore, to some extent, change the situation. With regard to the agreement between France and Cyprus, it is important to stress that it is based on reciprocity, as attested by Article 1, which states that there is a genuine desire to exchange experience or knowledge. In this regard, I refer in particular to Article 1 (e) on the exchange of experience in the field of military justice and international law. Moreover, Cyprus, as an island country, must develop a sound maritime strategy. This country has played an important role in the development of the European Union's maritime security strategy. The agreement will therefore improve France's knowledge of this subject, and vice versa. Beyond the advantages that both sides will find in this cooperation, it is also a question of recalling the message strongly conveyed by the agreement. The presence of Turkish military forces on a part of the island since 1974 makes the situation particularly tense: one of the strong motivations of Cyprus to join the European Union was that it was possible to enjoy strong protection against this threat. Thanks to the bilateral agreement, France demonstrates its concrete participation in this protection, as reflected in Article 1 (j) on "the provision of operational facilities and logistical support to the armed forces". This provision is all the more important since France has recently committed – as you recalled, Madam Secretary of State – to helping Cyprus to preserve the sovereignty of its exclusive economic zone and territorial waters, following the illegal drilling undertaken by Turkey. These two agreements – one with Albania and the other with Cyprus – also strengthen our diplomatic relations, beyond the acquisition of military knowledge, by preserving and strengthening relations of trust between countries. With regard to the agreement between France and Albania, I refer in particular to Article 4, which refers to the exchange of experience and knowledge in various forms, through conferences, military exercises or sporting events, for all the forces that make up the military corps. As far as the agreement between France and Cyprus is concerned, I have already mentioned Article 4, which refers to cooperation in various and complementary fields of competence. Both agreements are based on the sharing and dialogue between military personnel. Even if these are specific relations, these exchanges will also have positive effects on relations between States more generally. They promote a better understanding of the other and his representations of the world; they contribute to general calming and reducing the risk of conflict. For all these reasons, the Freedom and Territory Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u55	Mr Bastien Lachaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u56	We are consulted on two cooperation treaties – the first with Albania and the second with Cyprus – which form a partnership between France and these two small Mediterranean states. From this point of view, they may seem similar, which would explain their joint review. Yet these two treaties are the result of almost contradictory visions and their implications are very different. The first, with Albania, is actually a product of Albania's inclusion in NATO, which is itself one of the many avatars of the Atlantic Alliance's strategy to place its hegemony on Europe, particularly on the Balkans. Since Albania has been a member of NATO since 2009, it would have to be perfectly naive not to think that this agreement is primarily subordinate to NATO requirements. That is why we are not in favour of it. NATO is an organization "in a state of brain death": this is Emmanuel Macron's opinion. This analysis can be nuanced: obviously – you will pass the image to me – the corpse is still moving. Nevertheless, I gladly agree with the President of the Republic that NATO is obsolete. Its object has disappeared with the end of the Warsaw Pact and its maintenance has only one interest: to be a vehicle of imperialism of the United States of America. This is how the Alliance is gradually laying its foundations throughout Europe. Everything that could have been in the orbit of the former USSR, anything that could have maintained relations with Russia, was forced to return to a kind of pre-square of the United States of America. Albania is one of the pawns of the great US game, which aims to cut Russia off from all its support, in the Balkans as well as in the Caucasus. That is why we are now being asked to bring Albania into the great family of frequent nations: the Otanian nations. But the scope of the agreement with Albania should not be reduced. Let us ask ourselves in concrete terms what is expected of a defence partnership with Albania: obviously, cooperation with this State will focus on the fight against illegal immigration. It is destined to make Albania a fort on the margins of Europe, a fortress to which our governments are working. For the sake of its cooperation, it will probably continue to be given the opportunity to join the European Union. France does not want to participate in this strategy of carrots and sticks: this kind of cooperation is not likely to provide a lasting solution to the security problems that arise throughout the Mediterranean basin. The Treaty with Cyprus poses even more acutely the problem of our relationship with NATO. Indeed, although Cyprus is a member of the European Union, it does not belong to NATO. Why? Because he is identified as an enemy – or hardly an enemy – of Turkey, led by the nationalist Islamist Erdogan, who is a member of NATO. The last few months have shown how problematic this is. As a reminder, I recall that Turkey is embarking on a large-scale regional destabilization operation. It began by hitting our Kurdish allies in the fight against Daesh in Syria; On that occasion, it even targeted its own NATO allies, targeting the international base of Afrine. A few weeks ago, she assumed to take part directly in the civil war that is undermining Libya. In the Sahel, its strategy of influence, known to all, is not such as to bring about harmony in a deeply divided society. Finally, Turkey is embarking on dangerous provocations against Cyprus. What do we use to be a member of NATO if the largest army in the Alliance after the United States is entirely dedicated to sowing trouble at our margins? That is why France insoumise advocates a total freeing of this meaningless alliance. That is why we would also be prepared to encourage any manifestation of independence in relation to this NATO tutelage, though modest, like this text. The bond of friendship that unites us in Cyprus is indeed of this nature. I am not unaware that this attitude stems mainly from the desire to protect Total's investments in offshore oil exploitation, which we totally reprove. Indeed, by virtue of its position and the resources to which it could give access, the island represents a major strategic issue in the eastern Mediterranean. Nevertheless, we are fully in favour of supporting this State in the face of pressure from Turkey, which has come to spawn in its waters. France has already given pledges of its friendship to the island republic, sending frigates patrolling its area to guarantee it a possible Turkish aggression. The deepening of relations with Cyprus corresponds to our idea of an unsubstantiated geopolitics, that is to say, what we have called "a new French independence". Unfortunately, two almost divergent agreements have been joined here, a new illustration of how macroism intends to coexist opposites, to the detriment of the clarity, coherence and credibility of our country's action. In these circumstances, we will not be able to vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u57	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u58	This double ratification of defence agreements raises several questions, both in relation to the status of each of the two members and to the defence. Indeed, since each of the two States faced very different problems, it would have been necessary to propose the text in two parts; This would have made it possible to have more frank discussions on each of the two subjects, rather than dilute the debate on completely different subjects. Indeed, no one here knows that Cyprus has been a member of the European Union since 2004, but is not a member of the Schengen area or NATO. On the other hand, Albania is not yet a member of the European Union – and perhaps not for a very long time if the procedure remains at a standstill, as seems to be the case at present – and is also not part of the Schengen area, even though it belongs to NATO. The subjects are therefore profoundly different. In addition to an extremely tense territorial situation, Cyprus faces serious problems related to gas resources and the transport of gas in its territorial waters. Indeed, Cyprus is at the heart of a new gas eldorado in the Mediterranean which makes a lot of envy. The geostrategic stakes in this area are considerable: while gigantic gas deposits have been discovered for several years, mainly off Israel and Egypt, at least one very large deposit exists in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Cyprus, two others, smaller, in the north-east and north-west. The Cyprus question is therefore closely associated with gas geopolitics in the Mediterranean. Turkey's non-recognition of the full legitimacy of the Republic of Cyprus on the island allows it to deny Turkey the right to have an exclusive economic zone, thus conducting drilling campaigns in its own territorial waters. It is in this same context of Turkish desire to ignore the exclusive economic zones of Cyprus that Turkey, in mid-December, in the framework of an agreement on the maritime borders between Turkey and Libya, deployed an armed drone in the part of Cyprus it occupies. The route of the various gas pipelines in the Mediterranean illustrates the other side of this gas subject, as demonstrated again by the agreement reached at the beginning of January between Cyprus, Italy, Israel and Greece on the construction of a gas pipeline from the Mediterranean gas fields of Israel and Cyprus to Greece, and in a second stage the rest of the European Union. This is intended to bypass Turkey and Russia, and not to get bogged down with American interference on these issues. But, Madam Secretary of State, what would happen on the day an open conflict broke out in this regard between the Cypriot and Turkish States? Basically, on this subject, the issue is that of alliances. Tomorrow, in case of conflict, which ally will choose France? Its Turkish ally of NATO or its Cypriot ally of the European Union? Why did we get to this level of schizophrenia? That is the real question behind all this. Perhaps we can look at the arms sales sector – it is even indicated, on pages 13, 16 and 17 of the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that these two agreements aim to extend the influence of our military industries. We thus arrive to serious degrees of incoherence and mercantile cynicism: it is time to refocus ourselves, removing the purse of the brain of our leaders and instilling instead a real capacity for reflection on the future of France in the world and its ability to be coherent and objective. In terms of trade, we cannot be friends with everyone! There must be limits, and Cyprus is proving it to us! Although it seems less absurd, the agreement with Albania is, however, also geared towards the objective of selling as many weapons as possible. As a country seeking membership of the European Union, Albania must be kind to the Member States of the Union; On the other hand, as a member of NATO, it must dedicate 2% of its GDP to the defence budget, as the Alliance now demands, at the imperative request of the United States. It may therefore be questioned whether France's objective is not essentially to conclude an agreement to influence Albania's arms purchases, since at the time when the Union's military expenditure is increasing, it must send signs to its future Community partners. You will have understood that, in view of this imbroglio and in line with Jean-Paul Lecoq's position in committee, the GDR Group will vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u59	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u60	It is on behalf of the Republic on the move that I am speaking here this morning, and you know that my group will vote in favour of the draft law authorizing the approval of two cooperation agreements on defence, one with the Republic of Cyprus and the other with Albania. After its introduction, consideration of the bill was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs; The Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, which received an opinion, appointed me as rapporteur. I will therefore focus on the military stakes of the two agreements. First of all, the Franco-chypriot agreement is quite classic for a defence agreement. At the close of reading his letter, however, he has the advantage of putting particular emphasis on the operational and logistical facilities granted to our forces by the Cypriot authorities at their bases, particularly naval ones. Indeed, the island of Cyprus is a very valuable point of support for our operations, in an area of prime interest for our defence policy: the eastern Mediterranean, and therefore the Middle East. It is an area where our armies are led to intervene, at least three ways. They intervene first for the protection of our nationals. It is recalled that in 2006, during the last Lebanese crisis, 78,000 French and European citizens had had to be evacuated, and that they had been evacuated through Cyprus. No one wants us to do this again, but in view of the growing instability in the region, we must prepare for it. Our armies do so and need a strong support point in Cyprus. Secondly, in this unstable region, our armies can be led to carry out all kinds of missions other than the evacuation of our nationals, whether they are armed operations or intelligence missions. In any case, Cyprus's position and access to its military infrastructure are of great value. Thirdly, we have major interests at sea. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, promising hydrocarbon deposits have been found in the exclusive economic zone – ZEE – Cyprus, the bulk of which was granted to the French group Total and the Italian company Ente Nazionale idrocarburi – ENI. But Turkey, at least to say that it does not always play a stabilizing role in the area, challenges the internationally recognised Cypriot EEZ and conducts naval intimidation operations against French and Italian oil ships. The Italians, for lack of sufficient military support, have already had to turn back. Luckily, and thanks to our good location in Cyprus, Turkish manoeuvres have turned short. The Franco-Cypriot cooperation agreement consolidates this partnership, in a context where other powers, such as Russia, are seeking to establish themselves in Cyprus, with the risk of supplanting us. As for the agreement with Albania, which is also a classic one, it aims to deepen our defence cooperation with Albania over the past two decades, from the position of safety consumer to that of reliable and responsible actor in the service of the stability of the Balkans. We all have this in mind: the Albanians may have been disappointed that the European Union considers that their country does not meet all the criteria for accession. The ratification of this agreement therefore comes at the right time to show the Albanians that, for us, they are nevertheless first-class partners in a region where France is implementing a global strategy for the development of its influence and cooperation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the La République group on the move will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u62	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u63	Today we are considering the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on cooperation in the field of defence, and the agreement on cooperation in defence matters with the Government of the Republic of Cyprus. While we have an ancient relationship with Cyprus in terms of military cooperation, the relationship we have with Albania is still in an embryonic state. It is therefore clear that these two agreements do not have the same scope. However, it is important that, in both cases, we can maintain and advance our military cooperation with those countries that occupy strategic places in their geographical environment. Let us first focus on Cyprus. As the rapporteur pointed out, France is the second largest military partner. This explains in particular the role we continue to play in the Levant in trying to calm and resolve the conflicts that have been taking place there for decades. The Eastern Mediterranean, Cyprus in particular, has been a point of support for France for centuries when it is forced to conduct military operations in the region. The Cypriot Republic is indeed a stable partner that enables us to guarantee, among other things, the security of our citizens in the region by offering them, where appropriate, a refuge – especially from Lebanon. We all remember here the evacuation of French and European nationals during the 2006 crisis. At the same time, Cyprus is currently facing significant security and defence challenges due to the chronic instability of the region, the worsening of conflicts and the changing doctrine of some of its powerful neighbours. In fact, Cyprus's relationship with Turkey is worrying, while a latent conflict, which has not yet been resolved, has continued since 1974, the date of the island's partition. As Turkish ambitions become increasingly pressing and interventionism in the region destabilizes, we must stand with our Cypriot ally more than ever before to ensure our protection. It is the very meaning of the agreement that is before us today. Moreover, Cyprus has always supported Europe's defence and has relaunched a programme to acquire military equipment that we support. Another is the situation in Albania, which does not have to face such an immediate and urgent threat as Cyprus. While our military relationship with Albania is much more modest, this country is now politically and economically stabilized and is therefore a reliable partner with which we can work. The stakes are also of another order with Albania, in fact subject to a strong internal tension due to organised crime and radical Islamism. We need to go with him to solve these problems, and more broadly those of the Balkans as a whole. From an operational point of view, Albania is a sea-oriented country with an important port and maritime industry tradition on which we can build. Our military relationship must therefore expand, particularly with the incorporation of interns into military schools, which is an essential lever of influence. It seems to me that these considerations are progressing; We are gradually becoming aware that training can be an interesting aspect of our policy of influence, as shown by the reopening of a post of defence attaché in Tirana. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These two agreements are therefore important elements of our military and security investment in the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. This is a space that we cannot and must not give up. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u65	Mr Joaquim Pueyo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u66	We are considering two defence agreements with Albania and Cyprus. I shall begin by raising a few points concerning the text on Albania. While it should first be recalled that these bilateral defence agreements are useful, it should nevertheless be stressed that they should not be used as a counterpart or compensation – even though this agreement, dating back to 2017, predates the French position taken last October blocking the opening of negotiations for Albania's accession to the European Union. While the European Commission had declared itself in May 2019 for the opening of negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia, the hopes of these countries were undermined by the French position which I hope will evolve. Moreover, these defence agreements must be part of a broader policy of cooperation, particularly in energy and economic terms. We must bear in mind Russia's influence and dependence on it, which could be established if we did not maintain the hope of integrating these Balkan countries into the European Union. You know what I think about that. As far as the agreement with Albania is concerned, we must stress, as the rapporteur has done, the positive role played by this French-speaking and Francophile country in improving relations within the Balkans and with all its neighbours. The Albanian President recently stated, during his last visit to France, that "Albania [was] determined and intended to be a vehicle for stability and collaboration in the Balkans. » This vision is part of a context of internal appeasement, despite an ever-complex security situation, particularly linked to organized crime and radicalisation. The issue of arms trafficking from the former Yugoslav stockpiles is also central. This defence agreement is therefore a first step and will have a beneficial effect on the countries concerned. As the rapporteurs point out, international cooperation contributes to the improvement of training in some countries. The development of military cooperation in that region should be a reminder of our country's commitment to peaceful relations and long-term mutual assistance with the vast majority of States. However, this cooperation will be very different from that with Cyprus for structural and short-term reasons. As several speakers have pointed out, Albania has only a small army, equipped with ageing equipment, to which it spends only 1.1% of its gross domestic product – GDP – far from the 2% rate set by NATO. However, it is essential to stress that bilateral cooperation also takes place within a broader framework, that of strengthened relations within NATO. The agreement we are discussing is aimed in particular at renovating the framework for relations between our two countries, as a result of Albania's accession to NATO in 2009 and its rapprochement with the European Union. At a time when questions have been raised about the role of NATO, it is essential to recall that NATO allows, in spite of everything, cooperation beneficial for joint interventions, but also for the development of armies in least developed countries in this field. This allows us to learn from each other's experiences. However, I would like to make a point: while it is essential for Albania to fulfil its commitments to NATO, in particular with regard to the modernisation of its equipment for better interoperability, we must also appreciate the country's efforts with regard to the resources of its armies and not adopt an overly abrupt position. The risk would be to discourage him when he demonstrated his goodwill. The defence agreement with Cyprus, for its part, is another situation. Of course, any analysis of our relations with this European partner must take into account the fundamental question of the partition of the island and the influence of Turkey. It is therefore important to stress the will of the Cypriot authorities to strengthen the common security and defence policy and their involvement in the development of European defence cooperation. This Member State can rely only on its bilateral collaborations and on the European Union, as it cannot join NATO. Moreover, as the report shows, Cyprus is a strategic partner for France. It enables it to operate in the region, particularly in the Middle East, and to facilitate the evacuation of French nationals, particularly in the event of a crisis in Lebanon. So our relationship is strong. Recall that the French soldiers returning from Afghanistan stopped in Cyprus and that in 2006 the French from Lebanon had been evacuated to that island. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In substance, these two bilateral agreements do not pose a problem since they aim to strengthen our cooperation within a relatively usual framework. They are important, especially in that they adapt our relations to the evolutions of wider alliances. The Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u67	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u68	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u69	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u70	Madam Secretary of State, I note that you would have wished to intervene. I do not want to be too authoritarian, but I am obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure. It happens that you cannot speak at this moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u71	The next item is the debate on the draft law adopted by the Senate authorizing the ratification of the additional protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to participate in the affairs of local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u72	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u73	I will not go back to the text previously discussed. However, I could have made some clarifications about the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and pointed out that we are not trying to dismantle any alliance but rather to revive a strategic partnership by asking ourselves about the priorities of this organization. I understand that the House's Rules of Procedure have changed somewhat since I left its benches. I take note of this and will fully respect, Mr. President, the practices of this house. Let us therefore come to the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which enshrines the right of everyone to participate in the affairs of a local authority. This participation is the very foundation of local democracy: it strengthens the legitimacy of decisions taken at the local level, takes better account of citizens' demands and involves people in decision-making. As the rapporteur pointed out, this protocol logically complements and strengthens the European Charter of Local Self-Government by ensuring a democratic anchor. The preamble to the Charter recognizes that the right of citizens to participate in the management of public affairs is one of the democratic principles common to all Council of Europe member states. However, the Charter does not contain any substantive provisions on this subject and it has appeared necessary to supplement it on this point. That is why the Ministers of the Council of Europe Member States decided in 2005 to "consider the desirability and feasibility of a conventional legal standard on citizen participation at local and regional level". The Council of Europe is an essential institution for protecting citizens and guaranteeing their fundamental rights. In the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of Europe – I had the chance to chair the Committee of Ministers for six months, from May to November 2019 – we recalled how the seventy years of history of this institution marked Europe, the protection of rights, and anchored our values at the heart of the continent, values shared by forty-seven states that pursue the same objectives. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the French parliamentarians for their investment in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as well as the local elected representatives who, within the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, contribute to the strengthening of local and regional democracy in the 47 Member States. The Additional Protocol enshrines an individual right to participate in the affairs of a local community, i.e. the right of everyone to endeavour to determine or influence the exercise of the powers of the community. The main novelty of the text is to guarantee the right of citizens of the State to participate, as voters or candidates, in the election of the members of the council or assembly of the local community in which they reside. While municipal elections will be held in France in a few weeks, such a guarantee is not found in any other international text. The Additional Protocol also calls upon States to take the necessary measures to ensure the exercise of this right, in particular by establishing consultation procedures and ensuring access to public documents, as no one can rule on facts or data of which he or she is not aware. The additional protocol is of course compatible with French constitutional and legislative norms, which already guarantee this right, including the restrictions on the right to vote established by our law. The tools already available in France to promote participation in the affairs of local authorities, such as the right to petition, the local referendum or neighbourhood councils, allow for the effective implementation of the protocol without any changes to the Constitution or legislation. Moreover, no other treaty or agreement ratified by France is likely to conflict with those provisions, since the fundamental right to participate in local life was not included in any international treaty. The European Charter of Local Self-Government, which has now been completed, therefore reaffirms the role of communities and what we commonly call "our territories" as the first level of democracy. As you know, I am fully convinced that Europe does not happen without the territories. Indeed, European action does not depart from Brussels and does not apply without anyone knowing or asking for it; It offers opportunities, tools, and it is because local actors want to use them that European action is unfolding. It is in this sense that I started, from the moment I took office, a large "tour de France de l'Europe du concret". From Douaisis to the Seine-Saint-Denis, I saw how local authorities and Europe are helping to serve citizens, around essential objectives such as training for young people, combating poverty and exclusion in the territories. In Thionville and Pic-Saint-Loup, I met the elected representatives and the inhabitants of rural areas, who were able, in an exemplary way, to put European tools at the service of their projects and therefore of their fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] France's ratification of this protocol therefore reminds us of our country's commitment to local democracy and our commitment to promoting it in Europe and around the world. So this is a text that is consistent with our values, our principles, what we call "the Europe of democracy". It is at the heart of the expectations of French citizens who will thus be able to understand that Europe is at their side and that it is because they have local elected representatives, on the ground, that this Europe becomes reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u74	Madam Secretary of State, in order for neither you nor I to appear iconoclastic, I should like to point out that I can only give you the floor after the conclusion of the general debate. Earlier, when the general debate is closed but before I call the text, I will give you the floor if you wish to speak. After that, I won't be allowed to do it anymore. Like Mr Meyer Habib, who will succeed you in the gallery, I am very respectful of our rules. Mr Meyer Habib, alternate Mr Pascal Brindeau, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u75	The purpose of this draft law is to authorize the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government and concerns the right of citizens to participate in the affairs of local authorities. This Additional Protocol was adopted in November 2009 and immediately signed by France. It entered into force in 2012, following ratification by eight Council of Europe member states. However, it is only in 2019, ten years after its signature, that our country begins the ratification procedure. It should be the twentieth country to do so. Before we discuss the protocol, let us go back a few moments to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which it is the extension of. When it was adopted by the Council of Europe member states in 1985, this charter was a state-of-the-art text on the recognition of the rights of local authorities. At the international level, it was a first and, in France, we were only three years after the first Defferre laws on decentralization. At the time, we could not ratify the charter under constant domestic law. Indeed, in a field such as local autonomy, a treaty is not intended to push the French Parliament in a direction where it does not want or cannot go; It must be more focused on giving international consecration and additional legal force to rules of law already adopted internally. It was therefore not until the 2000s that our constitutional and legislative rules were compatible with the principle of local self-government set out in the Charter. It was essentially the constitutional law of 28 March 2003 on the decentralized organization of the Republic that allowed us to take this step. Despite the progress made, even today, respect for the principle of local self-government in its fullness cannot be regarded as a definitive achievement, in France and, more generally, in Europe. Local autonomy is, moreover, always reversible. I must mention, for example, the fragility of the financial autonomy of French local authorities. Developments in recent years – downsizing, contracting out, abolishing the housing tax – have somewhat weakened the financial autonomy of local and regional authorities. This is a point on which we must be very vigilant because, without financial autonomy, there is no real local autonomy. However, this protocol has a specific purpose: it deals with the right of citizens to participate in local affairs. The main idea behind it is that a living and genuine local democracy is the best guarantee of good health for any democratic State. It therefore aims to guarantee, in practice, the right of citizens to participate in local public affairs, which it defines as "the right to endeavour to determine or influence the exercise of the powers of the local community", a right that goes far beyond the right to elect or be elected to a deliberative assembly. Finally, it introduces a right to participate in business, whether you are a voter or not. How to participate in matters that concern you without being elected? This is the difficulty of what has been called participatory democracy. The protocol requires States to put in place mechanisms to ensure the effective participation of citizens in local affairs, without, however, quoting these mechanisms in an exhaustive manner – this would not be possible, as the diversity of options is great. Moreover, the task is difficult: often, participatory democracy actually serves to appear in the power of one, that is, of the one who restores the results of the concertation. Under national law, in particular the Constitution, France can ratify this text without difficulty. The reforms of the early 2000s, which I mentioned, make it possible to comply fully with the requirements of the protocol. Indeed, article 72-1 of the Constitution, introduced by the 2003 constitutional review, establishes several mechanisms of participation for voters in local communities – I am thinking of the right to petition, the local referendum at the initiative of local councils with decision-making value, or the consultation of voters in local communities. We can therefore welcome the fact that France has already introduced all these mechanisms into its domestic law. They are also complemented by many other more or less formalised arrangements, with very different situations from one community to another – be they neighbourhood councils, participatory budgets, or all the informal initiatives that flourish, such as public meetings, surveys or surveys. In France, local democracy already has a wide variety of tools but, at the same time, there is a strong sense of frustration expressed by many of our fellow citizens. Many feel that they are not sufficiently involved in local public decision-making. Recall that the establishment of a citizens' democracy was, most recently, an essential demand of the yellow vest movement; It is also at the heart of recent debates about the joint initiative referendum on Paris Airports, although it is true that in this case it is not a local democracy. As much evidence as, in this area, everything is not settled, so much is needed. Citizens do not always feel they are involved in change, and they do not yet feel they are involved in decisions that involve the community. I therefore believe that it is essential that we hear and understand this demand from our compatriots, and that we seek to respond to it by all means. It is about the future of our democratic model, especially since the local level is the one where citizen participation can best be deployed because of natural proximity. It is in this sense that the ratification of this protocol is of interest to our country. It encourages us to review the participatory arrangements in local communities and gives additional legal force to the existing arrangements. As a first step, a good diagnosis should be made, i.e. an assessment of the level of ownership of the different means of participation in the different communities. In any event, it is essential that we ratify this protocol without delay, because local democracy represents a progress in public freedoms, and we must promote it in the Council of Europe. I therefore urge you to vote on the bill, following the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u77	The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u78	First of all, I would like to thank Pascal Brindeau for his excellent report and Meyer Habib for his excellent speech. We are considering the draft law authorizing the ratification of the additional protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which enshrines the recognition of local democracy by the member states of the Council of Europe and thus guarantees the rights of the communities and their elected representatives. This Charter is the first treaty which lays down the principle of the transfer of powers to local authorities, with the right for local authorities to have sufficient own resources. It establishes safeguards to protect the rights of local communities. Finally, as stated in its introduction, the Charter imposes a minimum of rights, in particular for citizens, and constitutes the first European pillar of local self-government. It is therefore a democratic step forward for local democracy and for our citizens. The requirement for public affairs to be managed as closely as possible to the citizens, a management through which their voices, expectations and aspirations would be truly taken into account; the question of local identities and specificities; respect for the principles of decentralization and subsidiarity; trust in the field and the local – all these broad orientations must be at the heart of democratic processes. Admittedly, in the troubled times that we are experiencing and in the face of the immense challenges that we face, we obviously need strong, united and refocused states on their essential missions; But at the same time we need to give greater confidence to the land, to the elected, to the inhabitants of the territories, to all those who know things better because, simply, they live them on a daily basis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The democratic and territorial divide that we see in many democracies can only be reduced by an ever greater rapprochement between decision-making and the citizen. It is indeed a new architecture of powers, a new balance, which democracies must now build. Local democracy is surely one of the means that will allow the return of trust between peoples and their leaders. These are reasons why I strongly support the content and inspiration of the additional protocol, which aims to strengthen our local democracy very concretely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u79	In the general debate, Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u80	Let me remind you, in turn, that it was the Council of Europe that enabled the European Charter of Local Self-Government to be drawn up in 1985. This text is still today the first multilateral legal instrument defining the fundamental principles that any democratic system of local government must respect. The Charter, which has since been ratified by the 47 member states of the Council of Europe, requires, inter alia, the political, administrative and financial independence of local authorities. Today we are discussing an additional protocol to this text, which would enhance the participation of every citizen in the affairs of the community in which he or she resides. In principle, of course, we are all the more in favour of such a provision as it constitutes an essential axis of our political project, according to which popular sovereignty must prevail over any other power. Local democracy regularly returns to our debates, but what reality does it cover? Beyond France's international commitments, its concrete translations into national law are often very pale. In November 2019, the majority had the opportunity to revive community democracy in the context of the discussion of a bill. It was a blow of a sword in the water and there is every reason to believe that nothing will really change in the exercise of local citizenship. Moreover, some of the Government's institutional or budgetary choices undermine the sovereignty of our fellow citizens with regard to the functioning and future of their communes, departments or regions. Thus, the removal of the housing tax has thrown many mayors into uncertainty and is likely to force even more the financial room for manoeuvre of the municipal councils. As for the compulsory transfer of water and sanitation skills to inter-municipalities, which we regret, it also deprives municipalities of their levers for action. How can we talk about democracy when, in the background, the endowments are only declining? At the same time, when citizens expressed a desire to regain forms of direct democracy, their demands were at best ignored, at worst strongly rejected. I am of course thinking of the movement of yellow vests, of its aspiration to introduce new tools to control elected officials and their decisions, of the creation of popular assemblies to feed the local debate, and of other measures that we support. The Members of the Group of the European People's Party are calling for the radicalisation of democracy at all levels and for this purpose are defending numerous proposals such as the revocability of elected representatives between elections or the organisation of referendums allowing the people to propose, oppose or repeal certain local and national provisions. These are concrete measures! I hope that the upcoming municipal elections will promote their implementation. In my constituency in Bagnolet, some lists have included them in their program. If elected, the municipal council's rules of procedure could, for the first time, provide for a mechanism allowing a specified number of voters to remove the elected representatives, in accordance with mechanisms still to be defined and under conditions guaranteeing, of course, the exclusion of minorities from the application of such a procedure. This would be a great step forward, which would satisfy the aspiration of our people to regain control over the decisions that affect them. It is over when the citizen made a blank cheque to his representative for five or six long years during which he did not have the floor. In conclusion, if the Group of the European People's Party supports all Community initiatives aimed at strengthening local democracy – it will therefore vote in favour of the text – it calls on the Assembly not to satisfy itself with a minimum basis shared with our neighbours. We wish to see new democratic conquests emerge tomorrow, wherever possible, from those of which our country has so often been the standard. We would thus return to our history.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u81	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u82	The additional protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to take part in the affairs of local authorities is a beautiful text, and a symbolic text. A beautiful text because it recalls the fundamental values of a strong and dynamic democracy, based above all on the power of citizens within the bodies closest to them: their local authorities. A symbolic text because we are looking at it in a context where these communities have suffered from an aggressive policy on the part of the state that ignores the essential importance of the local level. While local government funds are no longer decreasing, at least globally, the municipalities still suffer too much from a lack of resources. This year, the overall operating allocation amounts to almost €28 billion and the State's financial assistance to local and regional authorities amounts to about €49 billion. However, after four consecutive years of downsizing, these amounts are far from meeting the needs. In addition, there is the strengthening of the contract between the authorities and the State, which reduces the free administration of the municipalities by creating very strong incentives and allowing the State to indirectly direct certain local policies. Communist MPs have repeatedly protested against these abuses of power that prevent communities from organizing themselves as they see fit. Forced construction of new regions and community groupings has greatly reduced the room for manoeuvre of municipalities. The abolition of the housing tax by President Macron is the same acabit: the highly centralizing political project of En Marche!, which has almost no local elected officials, must be remembered, aims in fact to subject the communities to the trajectory of public finances and therefore to corseter them, even though it is the local level that carries public investment in France. The reform of local taxation initiated by the Government will undermine the patiently built building of the commune, a commune for which the elected representatives, including communists, are fighting on a daily basis, this commune, which takes care of the population, is a shield against the crises caused by liberal policies, and this commune, which, often on its own, compensates for the departure of public services from the State. The additional protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government does not concern local finances, you will tell me. Of course, but without money, what can we offer to citizens who wish to see their village or city change? How to maintain a participatory budget... without a budget? What is the point of creating neighbourhood or hamlet councils – which is now possible thanks to one of my amendments, adopted during the examination of the bill on local engagement and proximity to public action – if they are only used to endorse the reduction of a budget? Without a budget, local and participatory democracy is undermined and citizen participation is clearly limited, at the risk of turning participatory democracy into a less costly communication operation. However, the many mayors who try to involve citizens as much as possible and who try to decentralise decisions as closely as possible to the needs of the inhabitants will tell you: when we have things to propose, when we have a real freedom of administration of our commune and we do not have to fight every day against the closure of a public service, the reduction of a supply or the downgrading of a neighbourhood, then yes, it is possible to make democracy live! Communist deputies, who for the most part were local elected before becoming parliamentarians, are well aware of this. And, admit it, that is precisely what is lacking to the Members of the majority! Local engagement makes the chosen one humble; it obliges it to listen to citizens as closely as possible to their needs and concerns. [[MM. Alexis Corbière, Jérôme Lambert and Paul Molac applaud]] It is therefore with full knowledge that the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left encourages you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the text. But, more than that, we are asking for it to be implemented. We hope that the charter – and its additional protocol – will raise awareness: we must listen to govern because governing is serving. If you listened more, you would finally hear that the country is going badly and you would understand that it is never being directed against it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u83	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u84	We are looking at the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which was opened for signature in November 2009 and entered into force in 2012. It is a very good text – many of you have already pointed out – and an important text for our communities, our civic commitment and our freedoms. The European Charter of Local Self-Government was adopted in October 1985 in the form of a convention. It was drawn up under the auspices of the Council of Europe, on the basis of a resolution adopted in 1981 by the Permanent Conference of Local and Regional Authorities, now Congress of Local and Regional Authorities. Since 1994, the Council of Europe has been responsible for representing the local and regional authorities of the forty-seven member states of the Council of Europe. Assessing the application of the Charter in Member States with a view to strengthening local and regional democracy is one of its prerogatives. Since 1985, the Charter has been ratified by the 47 member states of the Council of Europe. In 1991, the Council of State held that some of its stipulations were contrary to the uniform nature of the French State and to the arrangements for decentralization. These obstacles were removed by the 2003 constitutional reform, as well as by the 2004 Local Freedoms and Responsibilities Act, which enabled France to ratify the Charter in 2007. It therefore lays down common standards aimed at protecting and developing the rights and freedoms of local and regional authorities. A right of judicial review is enshrined in the Constitution or in the law to prevent interference from other levels. Several principles of the democratic functioning of communities are guaranteed: the election of local bodies by direct universal suffrage, the guarantee of the free exercise of their mandate by local elected officials, the definition by the local authorities of their own administrative structures and the existence of adequate financial resources. The protocol discussed today is the result of intergovernmental work on democratic participation in the management of the public affairs of local and regional authorities. In fact, Article 72(1) of the Constitution already allows the Protocol to be applied. As a result of the 2003 constitutional review, this article established a right of petition reserved to voters in each territorial authority and a local decision-making referendum that can be organized by local authorities. It also provides an opportunity, on the basis of legislation, to consult with electors in a community when considering creating or modifying a community with a particular status. Other similar arrangements exist, such as the neighbourhood councils provided for in the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, which are mandatory in municipalities with more than 80000 inhabitants. Other forms of participation can also be established, such as participatory budgets. The objective of the Protocol is to include within the scope of the Charter the right of everyone to participate in the affairs of a territorial community. It will have been understood that this involvement of citizens strengthens the legitimacy of the decisions taken and ensures that they are held accountable and are more responsive to their expectations. I will simply refer to Articles 1 and 2, which require the establishment of a legislative framework guaranteeing at the international level the right to participate as an elector or candidate in the election of the members of the council or assembly of the local community. This is the first time such an international guarantee has been provided. It is granted only to citizens residing in the district of the local authority, but the State party may, by law, decide to recognize this right to others. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Fully compatible with our international commitments as well as with our domestic law, the Additional Protocol contributes to the development of citizen participation. The La République group will therefore vote on the bill authorizing its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u85	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u86	The Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to take part in the affairs of a local authority was therefore adopted in 2009 ten years ago; immediately signed by France, it entered into force in 2012. But it will not be validated by French parliamentarians until after this discussion by the Assembly of the bill considered last March in the Senate. So it took us a decade to complete the work. The Charter should be welcomed as an innovative text, which was even avant-garde at the time of its drafting. In 1985, it is an important step in the development of local and regional authorities and participatory democracy in our country. The Council of State considered at the time that some of its clauses were contrary to the unitary character of the French State. It was, it is true, before the momentum of decentralization. Although France ratified the Charter only in the 2000s, it was previously necessary to revise the Constitution, which was done in 2003 by the Constitutional Law on the Decentralized Organization of the Republic. The stakes were important; Many are dear to us, including the modalities of decentralization with a view to bringing the State closer to the citizens, or greater sharing of governance with those who have local prerogatives and resources. Consideration of the voice of citizens must be anchored in our political system. Through the creation of synergies between the different levels of governance, we have managed to change the way we act and realize the benefits of stronger and better informed citizenship. This step has therefore led to the development of incentives for decentralization. The adoption of the Charter will thus have contributed to a more balanced and dynamic governance. The protocol before us is intended to facilitate the involvement of citizens in the affairs of local authorities, which is an indicator of good health for democratic states. It gives citizens the opportunity to feel responsible and to participate, beyond the civic gesture represented by the appointment of their representatives. The protocol is also in line with the principle of subsidiarity and demonstrates our commitment to the European project while at the same time allowing us to further advance social integration together. Today, however, our attention is focused precisely on the level of participation of citizens, for whom public action must be designed. The text foresees a major change in financial relations between the State and local authorities. It aims to clarify the current state of local financial autonomy: it is more secure and guaranteed for the benefit of communities, and it enshrines the right of citizens to participate in their affairs. It also strengthens local self-government by consolidating its democratic base. The ideas underlying the drafting of the protocol address the need for proximity to public action in France and have recently emerged. For example, we must increase the role of associative life as a fundamental element of our democracy. Associations to encourage the participation of citizens are developing in municipalities of all sizes. Thus, my region, the Hauts-de-France, has launched the citizens' initiative projects – PIC – a new mechanism designed to encourage the participation of the inhabitants in the life of their neighbourhood. In this regard, the Additional Protocol will facilitate the implementation of the initiatives already launched and promote new ones, thus strengthening the local community network. The 3D bill – decentralization, differentiation and deconcentration – defended by Jacqueline Gourault, which aims to give more responsibility to the field, goes in the same direction. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement supports these initiatives, aimed at encouraging citizens to play a more active role in informing about the decisions implemented in their territory and in their implementation. Similarly, at the international level, we see the benefits of associations such as French alliances, strictly local structures led by committed volunteers: they inspire us a lot. The text corresponds to the expressed will of our fellow citizens to have a democracy of proximity – a goal in line with our centrist values and which we consider to be a long-standing necessity – while encouraging us to re-evaluate the effectiveness of the current participatory mechanisms. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement therefore believes that this is an important step forward, which it will of course support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u88	Mr Jérôme Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u89	A very innovative text for the time, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, drawn up under the auspices of the Council of Europe, took many years to be ratified by some countries, including our own. Opened for signature by the member states of the Council of Europe on 15 October 1985, the Charter entered into force on 1 September 1988 and has since been ratified by the 47 member states – it was not ratified by France until 17 January 2007. The Charter was then supplemented in 2009 by an additional protocol which entered into force on 1 June 2012, ratified to date by 18 Member States. It is this last text that we have before us today. Let us first look at the application of the Charter in our country. It was because of the contradiction between the principles of the Charter and the unitary character of our State, as well as its methods of decentralization, that France took more than twenty years to ratify it. Indeed, the Charter advocates not only decentralization, but also local self-government. The Council of State had therefore expressed several reservations in 1991 concerning the power to manage local affairs, the principle of political responsibility of the local executive and the principle of subsidiarity. With regard to the latter, the Charter states that "the exercise of public responsibilities must, in general, be the responsibility, preferably, of the authorities closest to the citizens". It is also the first international text to apply this principle and to stipulate that a transfer of competence must be accompanied by a transfer of corresponding financial resources. The obstacles raised by the Council of State were finally removed by the 2003 constitutional reform on the decentralized organization of the Republic. While the effect of the Charter on French law was relatively limited by the entry into force in 1982 of decentralization laws, some innovative principles, including subsidiarity, were only incorporated into the Constitution during the 2003 reform. However, France is still not immune from any criticism: the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe recently noted that some room for improvement was possible with regard to our system of financial equalisation and the distribution of competences between the different levels of local authority, so as to avoid any overlap. Let us turn to the additional protocol to the Charter on the right to participate in the affairs of local communities. It is the culmination of more than twenty years of intergovernmental work. Among its important points are the right to participate in public life at local level, the right of citizens to information from local authorities and the duty of local authorities to enable them to exercise these rights. While the Charter referred to the right of participation in its preamble, it did not contain substantive provisions on the subject, unlike the Additional Protocol. It should be noted that our main tools of local democracy were created by the 2003 constitutional reform, so that the effects of the application of the protocol in domestic law are relatively neutral. Our right thus includes a right of petition reserved to electors in each territorial community, as well as a right of local referendum, the result of which is a decision if at least half of the electors took part in the election. The national law also provides for the establishment of district councils in the communes, not to mention the town councils in the villages, cited by André Chassaigne. The protocol also mentions the possibility of using other tools; One example is that, not provided for by law, participatory budgets, which aim to involve citizens in the decision on the use of part of their community's budget. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] All these provisions are in the right direction and are fully compatible with our domestic law. The Socialist and Related Group will therefore vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u91	Excellent intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u92	Very nice intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u93	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u94	We support the ratification of this Additional Protocol, which aims to bring within the scope of the European Charter of Local Self-Government the right of everyone to participate in the affairs of a local authority. If we have asked for this text from the work of the Council of Europe to be debated today in the Chamber, that is for a very specific reason: we should not let believe that its ratification will make France the singer of participatory democracy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u96	...not that the text itself is not laudable, but because we have great doubts about the will of the State in this matter. Article 1 of the Protocol imposes the obligation to establish a legislative framework that facilitates the exercise of the right to participate in the affairs of a local authority. However, the protocol does not contain directly applicable standards: it is the responsibility of States parties to implement it through national legislation. In this regard, the question arises of the concrete measures France intends to take. I heard you correctly, Madam Secretary of State: I understood that, for the Government, what already exists was sufficient... That's why I'm worried. Because the thresholds and the conditions of validity for the organization of referendum consultations are now excessively restrictive, as hundreds of thousands of people, especially yellow vests, have denounced. I would remind you, for example, of the need, as laid down in the law, to collect at least 100,000 signatures in the Loire-Atlantique region, i.e. at least 10% of the electorate, in order to request the organisation of a consultation on the administrative reunification of Brittany. Despite this threshold, the president of the departmental council was able to bury this democratic demand. This protocol will therefore not, under constant law, make France an example of participatory democracy, just as the ratification of the European Charter of Local Self-Government has not made it a state of regional autonomy, nor has it strengthened local freedoms at all. The Bonapartists will welcome this... For our part, we, the Members of the Liberties and Territories Group, regret it. Yet the Charter, in theory, obliges States to apply a whole set of fundamental rules guaranteeing the political, administrative and financial independence of local authorities, establishes that the principle of local self-government must be recognized in national law and protected by the Constitution, and guarantees the principle of subsidiarity of States. But what about all this concretely in our domestic law? Not much! Of course, the Constitution provides that the organization of the Republic is decentralized and that the local authorities freely administer themselves. But the powers and budgets of the French regions are light years away from those of the Belgian provinces, the German Länder or the British nations; communities do not have fiscal autonomy in France – if not a few percent – and depend on the fluctuating endowments voted each year by the Assembly. Without regulatory adaptation and fiscal autonomy, their capacity to act remains weak. Can we then talk about local power? I doubt it was local government, but I doubt it was local power. Of course, it is not up to a European charter to radically change the fundamentally centralized structure of the French institutional architecture. To achieve this, a major constitutional reform, or even a reform of minds, would be needed. The forthcoming reform, known as the 3D law – decentralization, differentiation, deconcentration – will perhaps be a step forward, but it will in any case remain far below the administrative and political structure of the states that surround us because they are all federal states or at least have broad regional autonomy. The mere fact that Parliament has waited ten years to finally ratify this additional protocol and that it took twenty-two years for France to ratify the European Charter of Local Self-Government demonstrates its deep reluctance to emerge from a centralist ideology. I will also make a parallel with another European Charter, that of regional languages, which has not yet been ratified by France, although it has been possible since... 1992. The European Charter of Local Self-Government did not even allow France to respect some of the most basic democratic principles. This was the case at the time of the redistribution of regions: it is nowhere to be imagined, in Europe, that a government, on a corner of the table, should re-design the contours of the regions without even consulting them. I remember, however, that the Brittany region had voted unanimously to extend its limits by including the Loire-Atlantique. I also remember the unanimous refusal of the Alsatians, who were elected, to see their region disappear in a "Great East". It will not be surprising, moreover, that the guardian of the Jacobin temple, the Council of State, seized on the subject, found nothing to object to this anti-democratic aberration; worse, it had even introduced a new rule according to which the administrative judge could not rule out a national law on the ground that its adoption procedure would be contrary to an international treaty. Curious hierarchy of norms that would have French law become superior to international law. That is, to say the least, a questionable principle. However, the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe voted in 2016 on a report regretting France's non-compliance with the Charter. [[Mrs Frédérique Dumas and Martine Leguille-Balloy applaud]] For all these reasons, you will understand that we are not delusional about the desire of the French State to make this text truly effective. And if we have made the Europe of States, the Béarnais you are, Mr President, will understand what I will say in conclusion: we are very far from the Europe of peoples!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u97	I get it, Mr. Molac. The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u98	The promotion of local participation is also a commitment of the Government. Thus, the law on the involvement in local life and the proximity of public action – which, before its final vote, was the subject of a joint and final joint committee – will enable us to respect the spirit of the text that we are debating by introducing concrete advances for the elected representatives, in particular the mayors, in terms of training, upgrading their allowances and legal support. There is therefore consistency between the European Charter and our action at national level. Some of you have noted a contradiction between the fact that the Assembly is about to ratify an important text for local democracy and the fact that some of the local authorities are suffering from a loss of fiscal and financial autonomy. The total rebate of the housing tax will be offset by a new distribution of tax resources such as the property tax and the transfer fees, which are in progress and which you are very familiar with. I would remind you that the housing tax was still an unfair tax. Thus, in the Essonne department – which I know a little bit – we pay a housing tax three times higher than in Paris, whereas we do not receive three times more income, on average, in Évry than in the capital. The Government was therefore motivated by a concern for territorial equity. As far as the level of state allocations is concerned, the member of the Finance Committee assiduous that I have been has to point out that they are stable, if not very slightly increased, in terms of their distribution between the 35,000 communes and the other communities, since the finance law for 2018, when they had, it is true, suffered a significant decrease under the previous government. In this regard, I would like to reiterate the responsibility of each other. Mr Molac also made a long development on participatory democracy. This is a particularly interesting subject at a time when we are seeking to innovate, and I can, in the post that I now hold in the Government, approach the realities of citizen participation in the work in Europe from a more panoramic perspective. Thus, when France launches the major debate or citizen consultations – 1100 on the 1700 throughout the European Union – when the President of the Republic invites us to reflect on a deliberative democracy, when, even more so, our country puts on the agenda of the European Union, within the framework of the future conference on the future of Europe, not only the need to listen to citizens through consultations or referendums but above all the need to ensure their active and substantial participation in political deliberation – not only to ask them to respond with "yes" or "no", but above all to get them to make proposals that will be taken into account – I believe that we are defending a new vision of the place of citizens in democracy. The aim is, without calling representative democracy into question, to seek new ways and means. The other country that has innovated in this direction is Ireland. It has implemented a very interesting citizen process around a reform that could have been the source of an important cleavage, that of abortion. There are also formats of exchange in the Nordic countries that combine civil society – trade unions in particular, but also citizens and associations – and political class in a way that is also very interesting. I can therefore assure you, Mr Molac, that there are French initiatives in this area. While the European Council has already worked on this issue last December, the European Parliament voted yesterday on the conference on the future of Europe, a very important resolution that clarifies the beginning of its work. The Council of Ministers will hold a focused discussion before the end of the month before the Commission gives its position. The Government is therefore looking for ways and means to give citizens a place, on European subjects, but above all a voice that counts. [[Applause on the banks of the LaREM group. – Mrs MargueriteDeprez-Audebertapplauditedalso]] As far as your comments are concerned, Mr Molac, on the fact that France is not a federal state, I would remind you that the French Republic is of a rather special nature, each of the European states being built according to a rather unique model, which is difficult to compare with the others. The so-called 3D bill should, in particular, be able to meet the wishes of the President of the Republic to include differentiation in the Constitution. All these reflections that we must carry out in order to ensure the achievement of two seemingly contradictory objectives, but, I believe, essential for the citizens: to ensure greater effectiveness of the decisions which must be taken closer to the ground, to recognize the need for a committed State. The episode of the yellow vests has indeed shown us the great disarray of our fellow citizens when the state was disengaged. And if decentralization takes place in a dry manner, we will not meet the democratic demands that are being addressed to us today. There are, as you can see, many very political and philosophical elements, in any case very important for the good health of our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u99	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-16-O1122.u100	Next sitting, Tuesday, 21 January 2020, at 15.00: Questions to the Government; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law on combating waste and the circular economy; New reading of the bill to combat hate content on the Internet. The meeting is adjourned.
