ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law, adopted by the Senate, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, containing various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law (No. 3196, 3382).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u2	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u3	I am very pleased to be before you for the consideration of this bill that contains various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law, or DDADUE, as it is customary to say. This text will not have known a journey of any rest. Tabled on February 12 on the office of the Senate, it was supplemented by two letters of amendment, and its examination, due to the health crisis, could only start on July 8. It reflects the strong legislative activity of the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, which obliges the Member States to adapt their economic and financial law to the years 2020 and 2021. It contains, as its title indicates, various provisions. In view of the deadlines for transposition, the use of a sweeping text to adapt to European Union law was required in order to ensure that France was in an exemplary position when it took over the presidency of the Union in the first half of 2022. As the debates in the Senate and in your committees have shown, the subjects dealt with, as technical as they may be, cover real issues that I will briefly mention. Some provisions will indeed have very concrete consequences for our citizens and our businesses. First of all, this text strengthens consumer protection by taking into account the development of digital technology. This allows for the definition of new obligations for online marketplaces and the conditions for the marketing of digital content and services. It aims to strengthen the powers of the national supervisory authority and the penalties applicable to better combat fraudulent practices, in the context of an increasing increase in sales via online interfaces, and to modernise the rules in force in the face of unfair commercial practices. In addition, the bill complements our consumer law. Under the so-called "geo-blocking" regulation, which prohibits restrictions on online sites based on nationality, place of residence or place of connection, it creates a system of administrative sanctions and grants DGCCRF agents – the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and the Suppression of Fraud – the powers to control their application in cross-border trade. It also includes measures to combat unjustified geo-blocking and which could affect consumers at national level, particularly our overseas compatriots. Secondly, this bill contains important financial regulation measures, in particular to combat money laundering. It draws the consequences of the entry into force of the Regulation on controls of cash entering or leaving the Union, known as Cash Control. It organises the procedures for controlling the so-called "unaccompanied" cash, i.e. shipped via freight, including express freight or La Poste, for an amount equivalent to 10000 euros or more. It also strengthens guarantees for the administrative retention of undeclared or misreported sums and penalties for violations of customs rules. This text also transposes several European directives contributing to better supervision of financial activities in the European Union, covering the framework of guaranteed obligations, investment firms, cross-border marketing of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and alternative investment funds. Some additional technical measures will be considered during the review of the articles. Finally, the text contains provisions aimed at improving the functioning of the internal market, in particular as regards transparency in business relations, competition and animal health. The bill therefore contains a number of provisions. Nevertheless, one and the same spirit enlivens it: that of a more protective European Union, closer to the citizens, defending a comprehensive and ambitious project to deepen coordination between the Member States. The developments in European legislation which it aims to translate into national law are in the right direction. They will sell to strengthen the protection of our citizens. On the substance, the Senate has completed some points of the text, in agreement with the Government. As far as the territorial mesh of veterinarians is concerned, for example, it has adopted a new system by hand of the local authorities: they will now be able to pay aid for the installation or maintenance of veterinarians to farm animals in the tense areas identified by decree. It is a concrete, operational and decentralized solution. It also adopted provisions particularly expected by the cultural sector in order to transpose the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the Copyright and Related Rights Directive and the Satellite Cable or CabSat Directive of 17 April 2019. In particular, they will facilitate the transfer of rights for satellite broadcasting and cable retransmission services in the European Union's single market. Initially, the provisions in question were to be included in the draft law on audiovisual communication, but the examination of this text was interrupted by confinement and it is imperative that the platforms be subject to the obligations to finance French and European works as from 1 January 2021. [[Laure de La Raudière applauds]] [[Christine Hennion applauds]] In addition, the Senate has accepted provisions relating to the transposition by order of the Electronic Communications Code, with the exception of the universal service, which is directly transposed. A framework for the implementation of a universal service with a wider scope will be established. This service will now include a broadband component. The aim is to include in our legal framework the fact that a good connection to the Internet has become indispensable and that fibre is an essential infrastructure whose access we will have to guarantee. In concrete terms, all consumers will have to have adequate access to high-speed Internet and a fixed voice communication system, at an affordable price, I stress this point. This adequate access should make it possible to benefit from a minimum list of services – e-mail, online press, job search, etc. – set out in the European Code for Electronic Communications. I hope, however, that we will focus on the ambition, set in the context of the "France very high speed" plan and the recovery plan, to generalise the fibre by 2025. The Government nevertheless wished to reconsider certain provisions adopted by the Senate. While the latter voted to extend the allocation to the regions of the EAFRD's management – the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development – until the end of the current European financial programming, it rejected the authorisation to legislate that the Government requested to define the allocation of the EAFRD's management responsibilities after 2020. The Government is led to ask you to re-establish the provisions which will make it possible to organise, under the future multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, under negotiation at European level, the division of powers concerned between the regions and the State, since it is necessary, in particular, to clarify the competences for the management of superfacial and non-superfacial aids, such as installation aid. I thank your rapporteurs and committees, whose work and investment have greatly improved the text. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] As you will have understood, the DDADUE has many and often complex provisions. I would point out, however, that there is only one guideline that guides us: the desire for a European Union that better protects its consumers, strengthens the fight against unfair competition and harmonises commercial practices between Member States.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u4	Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u5	The draft law on various adaptation provisions to European Union economic and financial law, known as DDADUE, was introduced in the Council of Ministers on 12 February 2020 and then examined by the Senate in July, and its consideration in the National Assembly unfortunately had to be postponed a little because of the health crisis. In economic and financial matters, the activity of the European legislator has been very dynamic, hence the need to transpose several directives. Given the wealth of the text, we have asked our colleagues in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and the Committee on Finance to examine all of its articles. In a few words, I will present to you the philosophy which I believe should inspire the transposition of European directives: to transpose without overtransposing. The risks associated with overtransposition are well known: complexity of the law, legal uncertainty, distortions of competition and even loss of competitiveness of French companies on the European market. From this point of view, it was therefore necessary to exercise the utmost vigilance. Let me turn to the details of the provisions which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has examined. First of all, the text will improve consumer protection and adapt consumer law to the digital age. The transposition of the directives on contracts for the sale of goods and contracts for the supply of digital content will improve the legal certainty of consumers and adapt sales contracts to the digital age. Similarly, the omnibus directive is very rich: the European legislator's ambition was to create a new deal for the consumer by fighting false online opinions, harmonising the sanctions regime and laying down new rules on price reduction announcements. Secondly, we will adapt French law to the rules resulting from the European regulation on product conformity and strengthen the powers of DGCCRF by giving it the power of injunction to stop online fraudulent practices, which have multiplied, especially since confinement. We will also strengthen the fight against unfair business practices and empower online sales platforms. The draft law will also allow the implementation of the European regulation promoting fairness and transparency for companies using e-intermediation services, known as "Platform to Business", thus responding to the high expectations of our citizens and businesses, and to step up the fight against restrictive practices for competition, whether they are the result of large-scale distribution or digital giants. In addition, we are strengthening the single market in genetics and animal health and veterinary medicinal products. We will make the competition law applied by DGCCRF and the Autorité de la concurrence more effective and responsive, including by generalizing the simplified procedure. Finally, we are going to modernise electronic communications law by transposing the European telecoms code. I will say a few words about the very interesting work that the Senate has done. In particular, it introduced three new veterinary articles to allow advertising on vaccines, empower veterinarians to carry out certain acts and, above all, to fight innovatively against veterinary desertification, following the model of the fight against medical desertification. Senators have also provided interesting clarifications to reduce the scope of orders and to adjust the transposition deadlines in line with our European commitments. On the other hand, with all due respect to the Senate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u6	It doesn't start well...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u7	...we have identified a legislative rider regarding the free choice of consumers in cyberspace. The work of the Committee on Economic Affairs has consisted of a number of drafting and legal clarifications. It deleted Article 4a – the one containing the rider. It has improved the provisions on the simplified procedure; On this subject, I hope that you will validate the consensus we have reached between the actors concerned. Finally, the Commission provided some clarification on the operational scope of the provisions on universal service. I look forward to the debate that we are going to have in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u8	Mrs Aurore Bergé, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u9	It is quite unusual for Members themselves to request the use of orders; However, this is what we have done on this text. We have acted in responsibility because the stakes are the future of cultural creation, diversity and sovereignty, hence the identity and vitality of our territories; and also because we must be at the meeting point when the cultural, audiovisual and film world is undergoing an unprecedented upheaval. We are, with almost 2 billion euros dedicated to culture in the recovery plan, an increase of almost 5% in 2021. The draft law is an opportunity to transpose the directive on copyright and neighbouring rights, which we know has been carried out in the European courts with a great deal of struggle, thanks to the tenacity of the French authorities in the face of those who wanted to unblock copyright as we hear it. Its transposition, ensured by Article 24a of the text, includes considerable progress. The most notable is the end of the non-responsibility regime for platforms, which will now have to respond to content put online through them and ensure that they can best respect copyright and related rights. The examination in committee made it possible to bring about an indispensable clarification, by entrusting expressly to HADOPI – the High Authority for the diffusion of works and the protection of rights on the Internet – the mission of protecting the content, still too often shared without the permission of authors or performers. All the expertise of this authority will thus be mobilised. However, I still think that there are a number of things that are possible, which are the subject of the proposed amendments. We must ensure that the provisions of the directive on the remuneration of performers and authors fully respect the balances that were debated, arbitrated and adopted last March when the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age was examined in committee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u10	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u11	... to ensure that performers and authors receive additional remuneration if their initial remuneration is excessively low. On the one hand, I am convinced that sites whose main purpose is to infringe copyright and related rights, i.e. pirated sites, should be excluded from the liability regime established by the directive. On the other hand, the contractual freedom of authors and performers in their relations with platforms must be preserved, which will allow them to refuse to publish their content on these services. On the other hand, our role as legislator is to respond to the fears expressed by authors and performers regarding a recent decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union on the so-called "irreparable" copyrights, which collective management bodies were obliged to pay as creative aid. This decision, a real quake for French music creation, worsens the already difficult economic context that professionals are going through. The amendment that I will defend is intended to validate the payment of the sums already allocated by the collective management bodies to the creators, so that the beneficiaries are under no circumstances obliged to repay them. Article 24b will make it possible to transpose the directive on audiovisual media services, known as the "SMA", whose essential contribution is, of course, the transition, for online video platforms, from the country of origin principle to that of the country of destination. This is a major paradigm shift: from now on, services targeting France will have to contribute to national production. This is a considerable step forward, long awaited by the sector. Beyond this, the ordinance will make necessary adjustments: mutualisation of the contribution to cinema at the group level and no longer at the service level; association of authors with agreements between publishers and professionals in the sector; strengthening the investigative powers of the CSA, the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel; agreement of services on demand with the latter. The amended text in committee thus reaffirms the objectives of cultural diversity and sovereignty, which are dear to us. It also preserves the two distinct corridors for audiovisual and cinema in the contribution to production, which, I would remind you, is vital for each of these sectors. The issue of world rights is equally essential. The amendments adopted by the Committee also ensure that the provisions of the Directive on the accessibility of programmes for persons with disabilities and the visibility of services of general interest will be repeated. They also specify the scope of the regulator's powers vis-à-vis the platforms and the conditions for the authors' association with professional agreements. The law is not there to handcuff or hinder anyone, but to ensure that the system is fair and just for each of the actors, in order to rebalance it and combat regulatory asymmetries. As we know, this law will not be sufficient, particularly with regard to anti-piracy provisions and those relating to the modernization of regulation through the merger of the CSA and HADOPI: we will have to go further.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u12	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Constance The Grip also applauds]] However, it is in the interests of everyone not to delay in the application, therefore in the transposition, of the Directives. As the President of the Republic has undertaken to do, it must take place no later than January. This text is an essential first step, and I am proud that we can make it a reality this afternoon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u14	Mr Michel Lauzzana, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u15	The Finance Committee did not spare any effort, since 15 articles were delegated to it. Articles 8 to 11 form a first set of customs provisions strengthening the control of containers of goods entering European territory, opening up the customs representation sector and adapting our right to European rules on the movement of wine products and to the latest rules on the control of cash flows. Articles 12 to 16b form a second set of financial provisions. First of all, the aim is to empower the Government to transpose by order three directives of 2019, which relate respectively to the guaranteed obligations, the prudential supervision of investment firms and the cross-border distribution of collective investment undertakings. Article 15 aims to clarify the Government's ability to transpose the European banking package, conferred by the PACTE law – on business growth and transformation. Article 16 restores the nullity of the clauses prohibiting the assignment of debt, the removal of which, in 2019, has weakened both certain refinancing operations and access to credit for SMEs. Article 16b, introduced by the Senate, extends the nullity of the clauses prohibiting the assignment of claims in respect of motor insurance, in order to allow insured persons to choose their repairer. Article 16 bis, also introduced by the Senate, deletes a reference that has become unnecessary. Furthermore, Article 17 adapts tax secrecy to the transparency obligations relating to State aid of a tax nature. Article 21 strengthens the machinery for combating money-laundering and the financing of terrorism. The Senate rightly abolished Article 23, which provided for measures to deal with Brexit, since they were finally included in the Act on various provisions relating to the health crisis, other emergency measures and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union on 17 June 2020. Finally, Article 24 amends the EAFRD's management rules. The first objective is to extend the application of the current rules beyond the financial year 2020 until the effective end of the 2014-2020 programming. It also provides for the power of the Government to amend by order the distribution of the EAFRD management powers between the State and the regions for the next programming. The Senate has abolished this authorization, but an amendment by the Government is intended to restore it. If necessary, I will have the opportunity to elaborate on the reasons why I am in favour of the Government's amendment. However, let's say right away: as far as EAFRD is concerned, the status quo is not desirable, as the management 2014-2020 has been accompanied by numerous dysfunctions, mainly resulting from a tangle of powers between the state and the regions. In addition, the Government's proposal is the result of a concerted effort with the regions, which resulted in an agreement in principle at the State-Region Committee of 30 October 2019 and a new agreement only a few days ago. This work may continue, in particular with regard to the development of the future national strategic plan of the CAP – the common agricultural policy. Although a little technical, the provisions I have presented do not pose any major problems. The Committee on Finance has adopted, on my initiative, 23 drafting or consistency amendments, as well as four substantive amendments, the aim of which is to align the time limits for authorising legislation by order with those for transposing directives. [[Mr. Alexandre Freschi applauds]] While the provisions are a little technical, their adoption is nevertheless of political and symbolic importance: as the Secretary of State pointed out, France cannot fail to fulfil its European obligations, on the eve of taking the presidency of the Council of the European Union, in the first half of the year 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u16	I would like to inform you that, at the request of the Government, pursuant to Rule 95(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will consider as a matter of priority Rules 25 to 28, as well as amendments to the Additional Rule before and after those Rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u17	In the general debate, Mrs Constance Le Grip spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u18	At the outset, I can tell you that the Republican Group will support this bill, which contains various provisions for adapting to European Union law, known as DDADE, as it has done in the various parliamentary committees that have been seized. This is a broom bill which simply aims to adapt French law to the evolution of European standards in areas as diverse and different as consumer law, market surveillance, customs rules, animal genetics, the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, veterinary medicines, the regulation of online platforms, audiovisual policy, copyright protection and the regulation of electronic communications. That's all! As has been pointed out by several of the speakers who have preceded me, too often and in too many countries, including ours, the transposition of European directives oscillates between two pitfalls: the sub-transposition, with missing links, holes in the racket, or even a total absence of transposition, leading to an unlikely delay; On the contrary, overtransposition. However, the texts adopted by our fellow European co-legislators carry in them – often even, I have the weakness to think – directly visible benefits for our citizens and our companies, which can deprive them of delays or lack of transposition. As a former Member of the European Parliament, I am therefore pleased that France is working towards a well-adjusted transposition – especially since in the European Parliament I had to debate and vote on several of the provisions that are the subject of this text, in particular the recasting of the European Union Customs Code, on which I had been rapporteur. On the form, we note this text uses numerous authorizations to transpose the directives by order. In spite of our natural aversion, I would say, to the misuse of this procedure, we understand that in this respect, since the subjects are often technical, the use of such authorizations is necessary and useful. I would like to refer in particular to Articles 24a and 24b, which have been examined by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, as the draftsman has put it. These articles are of particular interest to me because they contain three essential elements of the late draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, the examination of which was interrupted due to the pandemic. These articles concern the transposition of three European directives. I am referring to three European directives: the one on copyright, the one on cable and satellite and the one on audiovisual media services. It seemed to us urgent and vital, as to others, to quickly transpose these European directives and I am pleased that, to this end, the Government has tabled two amendments in the Senate in open session. As we have said and reiterated: we are in favour of the speedy transposition of these directives, as they are expected by the world of culture and creation, whose actors are extraordinarily fragile, impoverished by the current health crisis, which is going to last. Our political family, The Republicans, even wrote it in the recovery plan for culture it published on June 2. Yes, we believe that the rights of authors and creators must be recognized, respected and guaranteed everywhere and by all. Yes, we believe that digital sharing platforms must participate in funding French audiovisual and film creation. Yes, we believe that legal provisions are needed to strengthen intellectual property law, guarantee the rights of authors and creators, and combat piracy. Yes, we believe in the right to remuneration proportional to the fruit of the exploitation of the works. Ordinances are used on these matters; We accept it, even if it is quite unusual in audiovisual matters, as a sacrifice on the altar of urgency and necessity. However, we will pay close attention to the balances set out in future orders: we expect them to reflect well those we have achieved in our work and in our discussions in the Committee on Cultural Affairs – the Committee adopted by an overwhelming majority the report by Mr Aurore Bergé. The Minister of Culture, Roselyne Bachelot, undertook before the two Assemblies that these ordinances would transpose both the spirit and the letter of the European directives. Of which: we will be very attentive. That will not prevent me from defending a few amendments earlier, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, in order to focus attention on matters which I think are particularly important and urgent. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – The draftswoman for opinion also applauds]] It is in this constructive and responsible positive spirit that we, the Republicans, approach the debate in open session.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u19	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u20	The draft law on various provisions for adapting to European Union law in economic and financial matters – what is usually called a DDADE – aims to transpose several European texts into French law or to ensure that our national law is brought into line with them. The passage of this text has been particularly sinuous, supplemented by several letters of amendment since it was tabled in the Senate office in February, as well as by the provisions of the draft law on audiovisual communication, the further examination of which was interrupted due to the health crisis. It must be said that this bill rejects by its technicality and by the extreme diversity of the subjects dealt with. It combines a heterogeneous set of provisions resulting from a very complex European tax and economic regulation. But this diversity also reflects the strong legislative activity of the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament in recent years, which has led the Member States to adapt their economic and financial law before the year 2021. I would also point out that this text should enable France to comply with all the requirements of the European Union before its Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as from 1 January 2022. Having said that, the technicality of the subjects must not make us forget the importance of the issues raised. The provisions correspond to essential European projects, such as the Banking Union or the Capital Markets Union. Their consistency depends on the adaptation of our economic and financial law to the legislative developments decided by the European institutions. First of all in the economic field, in particular in the digital field, the European Commission has in recent years proposed important developments in order to increase the protection of consumers and economic actors. This progress is to be welcomed, which promotes the deepening of the single European market. These measures include the prohibition of geo-blocking, i.e. restrictions on websites based on nationality, place of residence or place of connection. Thanks to this transposition, a system of administrative sanctions and new measures to combat unjustified geo-blocking, which could affect consumers at national level, are being created. I know that this measure will be welcomed by our colleagues and fellow citizens who live overseas and still face restrictions in their Internet browsing in 2020. We also note transparency in inter-firm relations, which is particularly important in the agricultural and food chain. It is a question of restoring the loyalty of transactions when trade relations are too unbalanced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u21	It's important.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u22	This is another concrete step forward for our small and medium-sized enterprises in the food and agricultural sector; We can only rejoice. The draft law also contains several financial provisions relating to taxation or customs regulations. Some of them were long overdue, particularly in order to combat fraud and money laundering effectively. These legislative changes are indeed necessary to strengthen cooperation between European services. Thus, despite the multiplicity and technicality of the provisions, a single spirit drives the bill: that of a more protective European Union, closer to the citizens, defending a comprehensive and ambitious project to deepen coordination between the Member States. This protective framework is all the more important as we have been going through a particularly severe economic crisis in recent months: all measures aimed at strengthening European solidarity must therefore be welcomed. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of the bill, which we hope will lead to an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee for rapid implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u23	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u24	[["Ah! » on the panels of the commissions]] This afternoon we are considering an enabling bill leaving the Government free to transpose, through ordinances, several European directives. For once, one of the preferred means of neoliberalism to impose its views on the scale of a continent – the famous transposition laws – has some positive points that should be emphasized: for example, better consumer protection, especially in terms of buying digital goods, or a commitment to better interoperability. As you can see, we are able to recognize progress when there is progress. However, the devil is once again in the details since the remains of the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age are exhumed at the turn of articles 24 bis and 24 ter. It should be recalled that the debate on this bill promised to be most interesting because all parliamentarians, from all trends, wanted to take the time to look at this important reform. But the crisis of the covid-19 has gone through this and, since then, we have not had news of your great plan to liberalize – in other words, privatize – the public audiovisual sector. Instead of opening up a new discussion on the subject, you have preferred to introduce provisions in this text which have nothing to do with it and which initiate the reform that you wanted. In terms of form, it is a real challenge to the competence of our Assembly. Why do you want to go into force and prevent a debate in a Chamber that is more full than it is today, in order to adopt a law in due form? Is this related to the fact that within your majority, there is a debate, particularly between the rapporteurs and the Government? Your total disregard for what constitutes the foundations of our democracy is once again highlighted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u25	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u26	As you move forward, you will refrain from bringing to the national representation such important debates as those aimed at determining whether or not we want to introduce widespread monitoring of Internet users or to generalize some form of censorship of content shared on the Internet. In substance, we find the same neoliberal ideology as the one that usually irrigates the European Commission and which you enjoy so much. It would be a matter of creating a new single market, the European audiovisual market. Your project has already claimed a victim: the public television channel France Ô, which you unplugged without saying anything on 1 September. You also propose, for example, to make sharing platforms legally responsible for the content they host; Thus, you force them de facto to establish a system of control a priori without making the use of a human being mandatory at any point in the procedure. The logic of the so-called "Avia" law is reintroduced here without any other form of debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u27	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u28	You're making a mix!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u29	The list of issues raised by these two articles is long, but I can already tell you that we do not trust you in any way: no confidence in making orders respecting public freedoms in terms of rights and access to digital technology; Nor do you have any confidence that you will be the only interlocutors of the video-on-demand giants, without parliamentary control over what you will propose to them for their contribution to the audiovisual industry. We are therefore signing a white-sing, and that is not acceptable. We solemnly call for a debate on the proposed audiovisual communication bill. If it could be amended in the light of the lessons we learn from the crisis of the Covid-19, it would be great. In any event, as it stands, we are already very concerned about the great regression envisaged in this bill. I therefore invite you to make the only reasonable decision: to make an honourable fine, to remove these two clauses 24 bis and 24 ter from the bill and to submit them transparently to a parliamentary debate worthy of that name, far from this passage in force at low noise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u30	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u31	It is difficult to synthesize this text, as the fields they cover are wide. It was the Government's bias to bring together in a single text many and varied provisions derived from European law, in economic, financial, digital and cultural matters. We therefore find it difficult to find the measures proposed directly in the text and the authorizations to legislate by ordinances. Some measures are aimed at protecting the consumer, whether they concern the degree of penalties applicable to infringements of consumer law or the effectiveness of the legal guarantee of conformity of goods, but also digital content and services. Others aim to fight more effectively against differences in the quality of goods in the European Union and to harmonise sanctions in this respect. This is important for our citizens, who do not understand that there are so many differences between quality controls on consumer products; This harmonisation will be fairer not only for consumers but also for our businesses. Still others aim to better combat illegal content and online fraud, by giving new blocking powers to the DGCCRF when it finds an infringement. On this subject, I would like to pay particular tribute to the work of our colleague Eric Bothorel, who has become an expert in the identification and reporting of online fraud, and who has presented us, in committee, with improvements to the bill. There are also measures to combat all restrictive competition practices, including those of digital giants, but not only. This is certainly an additional tool, but I think it will also be circumvented by the inventiveness of the major players in the sector, not to mention that SMEs rarely turn to court against the major players: they can only suffer. We must forcefully bring our ambition to the European level of an ex ante regulation of the players who, by virtue of their size and dominance in the market, significantly undermine the game of competition. If Europe does not respond to this issue, it will have to, as we have done many times before, and as our colleague senator from the Yvelines, Sophie Primas, proposed, translate our ambition into French legislation. We can regret that, on these consumer issues, which affect the French very directly and which we are used to debating in the Chamber, the Government has recourse to authorization by order, on the basis of articles written sometimes in a rather vague way – we will come back to this when we consider Article 2. The Working Group would like more details on the Government's intentions. This text also contains an authorisation to legislate by ordinances on the SMA directive, if expected by French audiovisual actors, in order to subject services operating from abroad to the same obligations as those in France. The future of the French audiovisual system depends on it. Finally, the text enshrines the implementation of an expanded universal telecommunications service in line with the new uses of our citizens. We are, of course, in favour of that. We will have to ensure the quality of the service provided to our fellow citizens, so that we do not continue to feel that certain territories, particularly rural ones, are forgotten by digital technology. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups as well as on several benches of the LR group]] As a result, the Action Together group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u32	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u33	The complex and rather technical provisions of this bill cover almost the entire spectrum of economic and financial activity, consumer protection, the digital market, the fight against fraud and money laundering, business relations and competition rules, and even animal genetics. This great heterogeneity reflects, in a sense, the intensity of the legislative activity carried out in recent years by the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, with the aim of strengthening the integration of the internal market before the harmonisation of the laws of the different States, in a simplification approach. But this diversity is also a sign of a persistent delay in the transposition of Community law. However, in order to ensure the competitiveness of our enterprises, it is absolutely necessary to have national law in line with the requirements of the European Union. Before I go back to a few points in the text, I would like to regret that most of these transpositions are planned by order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u34	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u35	It would have been appropriate to involve Parliament more closely. Unfortunately, this is a fact that we have to make very regularly, and I wanted to stress this in this general discussion: we are here to legislate and work together to improve the texts. However, we welcome developments aimed at facilitating the practice of certain veterinary acts or the freedom of local and regional authorities to assist veterinarians in areas where there is a lack of care. In my constituency of Vosges, a very rural territory, veterinarians specializing in the care of large farm animals told me that I regret that the lack of young people to train makes their profession extremely complicated and forbids them to come to the aid of farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u36	All right! In the Oise too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u37	To help them, facilitating the practice of certain acts is not enough: the administration should also stop bothering them. As some have explained to me, while they are already struggling to do their job because they are not in sufficient numbers, they must also bear the administrative harassment on points of detail that make them waste a great deal of time and prevent them from devoting themselves to their main activity. Furthermore, while we welcome the provisions on the audiovisual sector, we regret that the debate on these issues had to be confined to the committee. However, we understand the need to move quickly on several issues, such as the remuneration of our authors or the participation of digital platforms in the financing of French works. With regard to the fight against fraud, we call for a genuine strengthening of the control of financial flows through the adoption of vigorous measures. Indeed, there is an evolution of the current system for controlling the flow of cash. From this point of view, the strengthening of the traceability of container flows and the intensification of the control of customs risk analysis services, in particular with regard to fraud, are fundamental. In addition, we support a stricter framework for the banking sector, in particular through the transposition of the measures in the banking package, which strengthen prudential supervision of investment firms. Finally, we must welcome the continued management of the EAFRD funds at local level: we must trust our territories and their elected representatives. [[Applause on committee benches]] I wanted to tell you, to conclude, that we will be vigilant in the face of any risk of overtransposition by order of European regulation, because if we have to be quick, we must also be simple in order for our companies to remain competitive against those of our European neighbours. Harmonisation, simplification, efficiency: the draft law tends to prove that Europe protects and needs to be concrete. The UDI-I Group will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u38	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u39	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u40	The heterogeneity of the provisions of the text adapting to the law of the European Union which we are dealing with this afternoon undermines the understanding of the law and the transparency of the debates. We believe that the fifteen directives and eleven European regulations which it deals with deserve better than a sweeping text consisting of provisions on areas which have little to do with each other: consumer protection, customs, the financial system and the fight against money laundering or the financing of terrorism, the management of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the Competition Authority, copyright and neighbouring rights, veterinary medicine, etc. This bill is justified only by the need to comply with the deadlines for the transposition of European texts, some of which have been exceeded by more than three years. It highlights, in some cases, the delays in the Government's efforts to integrate European directives and regulations into French law. In addition to discouraging debate in this bill, in most cases the bill does not properly transpose legislation, as it makes use of numerous ordinances: fourteen out of twenty-eight require authorization. In fact, the Senate at first reading rebutted some of them or reduced their original scope, considering it to be far too broad. This preponderant place left to the regulatory power does not plead in favour of the publicity of debates and the democratisation of the issues related to the European Union. Although most of the proposed transpositions and adaptations are not difficult, a number of provisions are nevertheless problematic and would have merited a genuine parliamentary debate on a dedicated bill. The use of orders is all the more critical since, in several cases, the authorization to legislate was not justified by a particular urgency, the date of foreclosure of the deadline for transposition into national law being relatively distant. The content of some articles is also problematic. In particular, I will focus on two of them. First, in Article 13, the Government requests to be empowered, for a period of 12 months, to transpose by order Directive 2019/2034 on prudential supervision of investment firms. The main objective of this transposition is to provide a framework for the remuneration practices of risk takers and effective managers. The main effect of this directive will be to improve the remuneration conditions for risk takers and effective managers of investment firms: the variable share which complements the fixed share of this remuneration will now be deflated. The option of enabling legislation by an order chosen by the Government to transpose those provisions, which were of significant economic importance, could be questioned. It should be stressed that the attractiveness of significant remuneration is not without implications for the behaviour of market participants who may prove to be at risk. The attraction of high remuneration can be an incentive to risk practices that are contrary to financial stability or ethics. The European Commission's approach of decoupling the rules of banks and investment firms is therefore not justified on this point. Such a transposition would have merited a genuine parliamentary debate. Article 18, on zootechnical rules, which seeks to liberalise the animal genetics sector for the purpose of farming, poses a problem because of the risks it poses to animal biodiversity. The impact study highlights the dangers of the liberalization of the sector, which could "lead to the disappearance of local races, threatened or unproductive, which constitute an important asset of the national heritage, without having an immediate economic interest sufficient for the private sector". Given the nature of this text and the content of these two articles, the Socialist and Related Group will abstain from the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u41	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u42	Mr. Secretary of State, you are inviting us to debate a bill that you yourself referred to as a "broom text" in committee. It aims to bring us into line as soon as possible with an impressive number of more or less recent European provisions, the entry into force of which is imminent. You justify the exercise by the need for France to be up to date with its European obligations for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union to be held in the first half of 2022. In short, you are proposing to our assembly to help you rid your office of the fatras of European documents that have been engulfing it for some more than three years, and to put everything in the cartons! To make it easier for us to do our job, you have linked documents to each other and decided to use the order procedure for more than half of the articles. These circumstances have given us little time to examine in detail the vast set of provisions that you are asking us to assimilate and approve. By sorting out as much as possible, we had the pleasure of discovering that some measures were in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u43	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u44	The first provisions of the text do not pose any difficulties: measures to protect consumer rights are in the right direction; measures to combat unfair trade practices in the agricultural and food supply chain are welcome; The same applies to those aimed at combating false declarations of the customs origin of the goods or at better controlling the flow of cash. But looking a little in the pile, we start to discover more than questionable measurements. This is the case with the transposition of measures to reduce the costs and obstacles faced by fund managers and investors in the European area, or with provisions on the transparency of State aid of a tax nature. While it is useful for citizens and economic actors to be made aware in a transparent manner of the use of public money and of the burden-reliefs enjoyed by individual companies, the directive in question has in fact a completely different objective: to better identify and control potential infringements of free competition and obstacles to European trade. However, this could seriously penalise the rescue of industrial enterprises at risk. In the period of reconstruction that awaits us, increased control of compliance with the sacrosanct rules of competition seems irrelevant to us. By lifting the pile at other locations, we discover measures related to veterinary drugs or the conservation and management of strategic oil stocks. We then discover provisions concerning the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, which we agree with, when others leave us puzzled. This is the case with the provisions on the management of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development: it is proposed that we authorise the Government to modify the State's system of administration of the Fund's supplementary aid for the next budgetary programming, as well as to amend the system of management of other agricultural aid by local and regional authorities. The Senate has emphasized the need for in-depth debate on this issue, and we obviously share its view. We are also surprised to find, in the draft law, the transposition of the two 2019 European directives on copyright and related rights, which aim to better protect the rights of authors related to the dissemination of their works on platforms. By empowering suppliers, these texts give them an automated censorship power that raises questions. The subject should also be discussed in depth. Unfortunately, the disproportionate format of this text, which has been constantly amended by the Government, does not allow our Assembly to debate and fully exercise its legislative function. Here we are caricatureally reduced to the status of registration chamber. This is not acceptable, especially since in many respects the bill goes beyond mere technical adjustments. For this reason, and because some of its provisions raise a lot of questions, we will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u45	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u46	On behalf of the Republic on the move, I welcome you to our Assembly, Secretary of State. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Valéria Faure-Muntian, as well as the administrators of the National Assembly, the advisers of the ministerial offices and more generally all the collaborators who accompanied us in our mission. This bill may have been referred to as "broomed text". It covers a number of European texts, the transposition of which is all the more necessary since some transposition deadlines are coming to an end. It is therefore a technical text covering several sectors of our economy and financial system, with the aim of strengthening the European and French internal market. It will enable France to comply with 18 directives and 14 European regulations, and thus be exemplary in transposing Community law. The exemplary value we have defended since our election is an important issue in the run-up to the French Presidency of the European Union, which will begin in January 2022. The complexity and pressure of the timetable have led us to adapt and to look for the most appropriate methods of transposition. This is why the text uses two tools: authorizations to legislate by order and direct amendments to the legislation. Because it is cross-cutting and affects many areas, three commissions have been forced to work on it. I would like to thank our colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, in particular the two draftsmen, Aurore Bergé and Michel Lauzzana. The bill aims to provide greater protection for French and European consumers and to counter unfair practices. More concretely, it will help to combat abusive practices of geographical blocking, as well as to work on digital platforms. The market will be better controlled, the powers of the supervisory authorities will be increased and the fight against unfair commercial practices will be more effective. New rules also affect product compliance and deviant business practices between buyers and suppliers of food or agricultural products. More generally, the entire European and French internal market is concerned. By way of illustration, customs control powers in financial matters will be strengthened, the transposition of the veterinary medicinal products package will increase the availability of such medicines and the reduction of the administrative burden will stimulate competitiveness. The Committee on Finance has been called upon to do so because the text relates to the functioning of financial services: it regulates more strictly certain operations, such as those on secure obligations, and strengthens the fight against the financing of terrorism. Thus, French law will be brought into line with the new European regulation on the control of cash flows: controls will be extended and tax secrecy will be adapted to the transparency obligations imposed by the European Union on State aid of a tax nature. The text has also been the subject of a reflection by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education as it relates to audiovisual communication and will contribute to strengthening French cultural sovereignty. It will make foreign platforms subject to the obligations to finance audiovisual and film production, and will guarantee authors and artists a better protection of their rights on content sharing platforms – a commitment that is all the more important given that France has played a central role in the corresponding negotiations at European level. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, it is a balanced and balanced text, adapted to European constraints while guaranteeing the pre-existing protective system and balance at the French level. While reaffirming current good practices, it is preparing our economy for the future. I confirm that the Republic Group is in the process of supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u47	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u48	The inventory of the areas covered by the laws adapting to European Union law could have inspired Jacques Prévert. While the themes of this DDADE are limited to economic and financial spheres, each of its thirty-six articles alone could be the subject of a text. The Government has not facilitated the task, I am telling you clearly, Mr. Secretary of State, since it has enriched the original bill twice, by letters of amendment. The postponement of the Senate's consideration of the text, due to the health crisis, has also rendered certain measures obsolete. Finally, amendments have been tabled to introduce certain provisions of the draft law on audiovisual communication... So it is a real broom car that is presented to us this afternoon! In addition to the lack of readability of the text, we regret that the Government has chosen to resort once again, and massively, to the ordinances. It can be said that your majority will have been that of the ordinances and the parliamentary weakening. In doing so, you deprive the legislative power of its ability to fully debate complex political issues and to take over from citizens. This modus operandi stems not only from some contempt for Parliament but also from mismanagement of the timetable. In view of the future presidency of the Council of the European Union, France must be up to date in transposing the directives. We regret that the Government has taken too long to fulfil this obligation and is now forced to act in haste. The choice of the calendar is up to you; The responsibility is therefore yours. Beyond this, the text questions the relationship between, on the one hand, European directives and regulations, and, on the other hand, national law – a articulation marked by opacity and complexity. How do you want our fellow citizens to take advantage of these provisions? How do you want them to understand the importance and contribution of the European Union in their daily lives? How can we imagine that this method – which is not unique to the present government – can generate something other than misunderstanding or, worse, mistrust? However, we know where distrust leads to the rejection of the other and the European Union. In substance, I will stick to a few salient points. In the economic field, the European institutions have decided to strengthen the harmonisation of rules and to improve consumer protection, in particular with regard to digital law, which you are familiar with, Secretary of State. The omnibus directive, for example, contains a new set of rules to better protect Internet users. The Libertés et Territoires Group is convinced that the European scale is the most relevant for regulating digital platforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u49	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u50	Similarly, Articles 3 and 4, which tend to fight against cross-border and national geographical blocking, seem to us to go in the right direction – our group is eminently pro-European.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u52	As for Article 7, designed to ensure the full effectiveness of the European regulation known as "Platform to Business", to combat unfair practices and to strengthen transparency and loyalty obligations, it meets strong expectations expressed by users and businesses. The challenge is for our citizens to take ownership of it, which will strengthen their confidence in a Europe that protects them. I would also like to refer to measures to strengthen the single market in the field of animal genetics and health. The Senate has introduced the possibility for communities to pay aid for the installation or maintenance of veterinarians; It's a great thing. Let us hope that this measure will contribute to combating veterinary desertification. I am more reluctant to refer to Articles 18 and 19: it will be necessary to ensure that harmonization in veterinary matters does not lead to a levelling down of standards; This is an imperative in the context of a health crisis because, for the proper protection of our citizens, we cannot reduce the normative requirements. In the financial field, the provisions of the text correspond to essential European projects, such as the Banking Union or the Capital Markets Union. Article 12, for example, empowers the Government to transpose by order the Directive of 27 November 2019 on the issuance of guaranteed bonds and the public supervision of guaranteed obligations. We look forward to it. Finally, I would like to say a word about the ADM directive and the two directives on copyright and related rights. Their transposition will rebalance the balance of power: the authors will benefit from enhanced rights, particularly in terms of remuneration. Note that last year we supported the bill to create a neighbouring right for news agencies and publishers. Finally, the SMA Directive, which places foreign-based platforms subject to the obligations to finance audiovisual and film production, is crucial to support audiovisual creation, which is likely to be severely affected by the crisis; We are fully in his favour. In conclusion, the draft law contains interesting and important transpositions for European citizens and economic actors. We regret, however, that we have been disbanded by excessive recourse, once again, to orders. The Libertés et Territoires Group is taking this debate with benevolence and hopes to be able to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u54	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u55	This piece of legislation is a wonderful example of the dispossession of the French Parliament, which represents the only sovereignty that counts, that of the French people. This dispossession takes place in two ways. First of all, it is the transposition of supranational legislation, that is to say, other than we national parliamentarians have written what will become the French law. On the other hand, you make extensive use of orders, thereby dispossessing Parliament from its jurisdiction. It is rather stingy to hear parliamentarians complain all the time about the reduction of their powers and to be offered this type of transposition without reservation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u56	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u57	The health and economic crisis that we are going through highlighted – just like the yellow vest crisis a few months ago – the urgent need to strengthen proximity with our fellow citizens. For your part, crisis or not, you continue to keep the citizen away from the conception of the law and apply the Brussels ideology of harmonisation to all crins and the development of the sacrosanct single market. I very much agree that a number of provisions transposed into this text concerning consumer law are more in the right direction. For some, they have been voted in the European Parliament by members of the Identity and Democracy Group – I am thinking, for example, of the directive on contracts for the sale of goods. On the other hand, I cannot endorse the directives which, establishing fully harmonised rules, as the Digital Content Directive does, deprive States of any latitude to adjust these common rules to their specific situation. Similarly, when the texts reinforce the powers of the Commission, as is the case with the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, I can only worry about a new nibble of national sovereignty by a body that should be, as we proposed in the European election campaign, a mere secretariat of the European Council. As you know, our vision of European integration is based on free cooperation between nations and the defence of their full sovereignty. I believe that, especially in the economic and financial sphere, these principles should guide political decisions, and I am even convinced that they would enable nations to increase their prosperity and combat mass unemployment. I cannot evade Regulation 2018/302, also transposed in this text, aimed at countering unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination based on the nationality, place of residence or place of establishment of customers in the internal market. The famous discriminations mentioned in the text are, I know, semantic notions that make Europeanists jump! Nationality and frontiers: these words which are of almost deluctual use to them are for us guides, I would even say the reason for our political commitment. At a time when the crisis of globalisation, revealed in stark terms by the health crisis, underscores a need for localism, the European Union and your government continue tirelessly to decline this globalist ideology, and it is not the 1% of your recovery plan dedicated to relocation that will reverse this trend... We will certainly not emerge from this crisis, and above all we will not avoid the next one, by increasing free trade, but by setting up an ambitious localist policy. It is through a revolution of proximity that we can develop our territories again, allow companies to offer jobs to our compatriots where they live, and of course preserve our environment. [[Applause from non-attached Members]] In a world where globalization is a fact, economic patriotism and localism are political choices involving borders, norms, protections, in short, regulations. This is the way forward to restore economic prosperity to our country, and it is, I believe deeply, the way to build France after that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u59	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u60	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that articles 25 to 28 and amendments to the additional article before and after these articles are considered as a matter of priority, at the request of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u61	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u62	Since the beginning of the health crisis, the continuation of the activities essential to our society has been heavily based on the Internet: I am thinking of distance education, telework, the dematerialization of administrative procedures, online commerce, videoconferencing with friends and family, and telemedicine. In this context, everyone's access to a quality internet connection becomes, more than ever, a key issue, particularly in the Loire department. In order to assess this issue, Amendment No 12 seeks to clarify the quality of the connection which the French will have to benefit from.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u63	The rapporteur has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u64	This amendment would be tantamount to incorporating a very rigid definition into the law, whereas it is rather intended to be specified by regulation – especially since the technology will evolve and allow for regular improvement of flows and connections. Moreover, this proposal seems to me to be based on a confusion between France's very high-speed plan – PFTHD – and universal service. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u65	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u66	On the substance, I agree with the concern expressed by this amendment. With regard to the ability to provide all French people with a very good connection or even a universal service by 2025, I recall that the Government has made the following commitments, which will be fulfilled: 100% of French people will be able to access broadband, i.e. 8 megabits/second, by the end of 2020 – whether by fibre, ADSL or satellite; 100% of French people will benefit from 30 megabits/second in 2022; Finally, as part of the recovery plan, we made a commitment to fiber 100 per cent of the territory by 2025, making fibre access a universal service. With regard to the proposal to incorporate technical objectives into the law, it seems to us that this should be done in the context of orders, since this is easier to handle for a number of reasons. Firstly, the European code on electronic communications requires us to take account of certain objective facts in order to determine the characteristics of the universal service – for example, the state of the effective deployment of networks or the minimum flow to the majority of the population. It is therefore difficult to embark today on a forward-looking path by exempting itself from an examination of the state of the networks at the moment T. Secondly, we have an obligation to carry out a public consultation on the subject and to seek the opinion of the Authority for the Regulation of Electronic Communications, Posts and Distribution of the Press – ARCEP – and of the Higher Digital and Posts Commission – the CSNP, to which some of you are, I know, particularly attached. Therefore, going through the regulatory route ensures more appropriate and concerted universal service characteristics. We agree on the substance – I believe I told you during my trip to your constituency – that is, on the need to deploy these essential infrastructures, such as fibre and mobile networks, and have only a difference of appreciation on the most appropriate legal tool for this. Having said that, I am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u67	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 2 and give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u68	This amendment by Éric Bothorel seeks to clarify the underlying connection of services. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u69	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u70	This amendment, which we owe to Eric Bothorel, allows us to take into account the complexity of modern electronic communications networks in the designation of a universal service operator. At present, the situation with regard to universal service is simple: a national operator, in this case Orange, is responsible for both the connection and the provision of service. For new generation networks, including fibrous networks, one operator is responsible for the infrastructure while others provide the service. It is therefore important to specify for which type of operator the designation can be made. We will have the opportunity to come back to the issues relating to the provision of universal service, since they will be the subject of other amendments by Mrs de La Raudière. As far as Amendment No 2 is concerned, I think it would be useful, because the operator responsible for the infrastructure must be identified in order to enable him to make the connection. I am therefore in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u71	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 51, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u72	First of all, I would like to commend the Government's objectives, in particular that of ensuring that the entire territory is covered by fibre by 2025, as well as the financing of the recovery plan to achieve these objectives...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u73	It's also thanks to the regions!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u74	...and I am pleased to hear you say, Minister, that the future universal service will be based on fibre. The defence of Amendment No 51 leads me to mention a problem which we are encountering in the context of the current universal service, namely a disparity in the quality of universal service according to the territories, which the objectives of quality of service at national level have the effect of masking. In reality, some territories are faced with unbearable situations, as the population may be deprived of telephones or the Internet for several weeks without this being reflected in national quality of service statistics. In order to remedy this, I propose to supplement Article 27 by specifying that the specifications of the designated operators must include quality of service obligations, including at local level, provided that the designation area includes several geographically, economically and technically heterogeneous territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u75	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Subamendment No. 60 and to give the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u76	With your permission, Mr President, I intend to give the Government's opinion on Amendment No 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u77	It is understood, but in this case I shall first give the floor to Mrs Laure de La Raudière to support him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u78	I will begin by completing my presentation of Amendment No 51 by stating that I am also proposing to abolish the consultation of the CSNP, in the interests of consistency with the law on the acceleration and simplification of public action – ASAP – recently adopted by our Assembly, which abolished this committee. With regard to Amendment No 46, it is intended to complement the objectives of quality of service, in order to better reflect the quality of service perceived by the French within each territory – I am thinking in particular of rural areas. It seems useful to monitor the quality of service at a fine enough level so that ARCEP can have all available information on the provision of the universal electronic communications service and on the user's perception of the service at each point in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u79	You have the floor, Mr Secretary of State, to give the Government's opinion on both amendments and on the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u80	Let us first look at an important element on which we had the opportunity to discuss in committee with Mrs de La Raudière. If we take a macro approach, we can say that the development of very high-speed, HDT, is going rather well. France is the country of Europe that has the most kilometers of fiber and the country that installs the most: half of the fiber installed in Europe is in our country. Overall, although the pace is still too slow for our fellow citizens because everything always seems too slow when we wait, no other European country is making efforts of this magnitude. This is due to the Government's pressure on operators and industrialists, the efforts of their employees, and the excellent work done by ARCEP.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u81	And the regions, you forget them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u82	You are right, ladies and gentlemen, this is also due to a joint work between the Government and the local and regional authorities, sorry for forgetting them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u83	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u84	However, there may be territorial disparities for a variety of reasons. Today, universal service is provided by a national operator who has national obligations. What Laure de La Raudière proposes in Amendment No 51 is to provide for a local variation of these national obligations. This will make it possible to designate an infrastructure operator for a given territory, such as the Loire, Mr Cinieri – that said, I don't think she needs it anymore because it's already done – and to play on local rules instead of having a national rule. That seems indispensable to me. We wondered if the department was the right level to remember. Our colleague's proposal allows us to adapt and retain, depending on the case, the region – when departments have done joint work – or the department. We are therefore in favour of Amendment No 51 – and I do not see, Madam de La Raudière, what your Amendment No 46 is also making – subject to the adoption of Subamendment No 60, which aims to clarify two main points. On the one hand, it is necessary to re-establish the consultation of the Higher Digital Commission and the posts on the specifications.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u85	But it's been removed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u86	This is an intra-parliamentary debate – I understood, moreover, that the Commission was finally maintained. In any case, until its abolition has been finally voted on, its opinion must be formally maintained. On the other hand, it is a question of providing that the specification may impose obligations for geographical equalisation of tariffs. If there are differences locally, there must be a mechanism of compensation between regions and departments. As for Amendment No 46, I repeat that I am satisfied with point 51; hence my suggestion of a group presentation and a withdrawal – but I remain open to discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u87	What is the Committee's opinion on both amendments and on the sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u88	Opinion in favour of the Government's sub-amendment, which clarified Amendment No. 51, in which a small error had been made as a result of the changes made by the ASAP bill under parliamentary review. The opinion is therefore in favour of this amendment, as amended. As for Amendment No 46, I agree with the Secretary of State: there is a blurry of what he brings and of what he really means. I will ask you to remove it, Madame de La Raudière.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u89	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u90	I want to clarify the objective of Amendment No 46, which I do not think has been fully understood. Amendment No 51 provides that the specification will include "service quality obligations which the operator is required to provide and which are defined for the whole designation area". But if the area covers two regions, the quality perceived by the inhabitants of a department may not correspond to the objective defined at regional level. That is why I found it necessary to add that the monitoring of quality of service, not quality of service objectives, "must be carried out at a territorial grid sufficiently thin to reflect the reality of quality of service in each territory". The idea behind this is that one can have the means to measure the quality of service as perceived by the population even when the objective is defined at the level of a set of two or three regions. This seems extremely important to me because, for a decade, I alerted ARCEP to the fact that there was a problem of universal service quality with regard to the telephone network, with dramatic consequences in rural areas; However, at national level, ARCEP had no follow-up options, which made it difficult to engage with the universal service provider.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u91	So you are maintaining Amendment No 46?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u92	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u93	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u94	What I understand from the technical discussions I have just had is that there will be statistics for the designation area, but there will also be statistics at a lower level. If the deployment is made for Burgundy and Franche-Comté, for example, quality of service objectives can be set at a finer grid, at the level of the departments, for example. If there is only one delegate, its objective will not only be to cover such a proportion of the whole formed by Burgundy and Franche-Comté in so much time, other objectives may be declined locally. As these objectives will be public, transparency will be ensured. Your amendment No 46 is therefore satisfactory. Amendment No 51 seems to me to be even better suited to your wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u95	Mrs Christine Hennion has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u96	Local and regional authorities, like citizens, want to have visibility on the mobile coverage that will be deployed in the national territory, as Mrs de La Raudière pointed out. This amendment follows on from the bill tabled by our colleague Vigier, during the discussion which he told us that these requests would be translated into this bill, which is transposing the European code on electronic communications. We want to mention ARCEP's obligation to map the coverage of the territory so that communities can, in the coming months, provide targeted coverage and best respond to the demands and needs expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u97	That is Amendment No 49 which you have just defended, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u98	We shall therefore consider that Amendment No 49 has been defended. You can take the floor again, Mrs Hennion, to defend Amendment No 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u99	This amendment, which concerns 5G, draws attention to the place of local and regional authorities in the deployment of small cells from 2024 onwards, in relation to the evolution of their conditions of authorisation and notification. They can be installed on urban furniture, an infrastructure controlled by the public authorities. It is necessary to clarify that the procedures for authorizing the occupation and use of the public domain and the payment of a fee are still necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u100	What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 50?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u101	The European legislator wanted to facilitate the deployment of small cells throughout the European Union. The Senate has already passed an amendment to clarify the preservation of mayors' information. The technicality of the text justifies the transposition by order. Request for withdrawal, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u102	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u103	I see Mrs Hennion's amendment as a request to the Government to clarify its intentions on a rather sensitive subject in the debate on 5G. The small cells do not concern the current frequencies of 3.5 gigahertz – GHz, which we have just allocated, but those of 26 GHz, which are expected to be deployed in a few years. Small antennas, with a power of less than 10 watts, will be installed on urban furniture, including shelters, in fairly large proportions. As the frequency of 26 GHz is not very large, it is necessary to multiply them to ensure good urban coverage – I will not go into technical details. In order to facilitate their deployment, the European provisions provide that operators should not systematically submit an application for authorisation to the National Frequency Agency, ANFR. This point will be included in the order by which we will transpose the directive. Mrs Hennion wants safeguards to be established and I would like to clarify what we plan to include in the order, in particular in order to retain a right to inform citizens about deployments. Firstly, the installation of wireless access points with limited reach, the so-called small antennas, will have to be notified to ANFR, which will be able to carry out all necessary controls on the emission levels of electromagnetic fields. Let us remember that France is the country of Europe that measures the most the exposure to electromagnetic waves in public space – in schools or on the street, among other things – with 3800 controls every year. To this end, ANFR will have a map of all these facilities. Secondly, small cells will have to be the subject of an information package to the mayor prior to their deployment, like other radio installations. This is an indispensable step. It seems to me normal and logical, and even democratic, that the mayors should know where the cells are installed and that they can ask the ANFR, as they do today, to measure the exposure to electromagnetic waves in public space. Third, limited-range wireless access points will not be exempt from complying with the rules governing the use and occupation of the public domain. Small antennas will be required to receive authorizations to occupy and use the public domain and to pay a fee, if any. This seems to me, again, to preserve the powers of regulation of mayors. The Government therefore undertakes to transpose Article 57 of the directive by taking into account the three safeguards which I have just mentioned, the very ones which you proposed, Mrs Hennion, in your amendment No 50, which I therefore invite you to withdraw. We will be able to refer this matter to ARCEP and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u104	Has your amendment been withdrawn, Mrs Hennion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u105	Yes, Mr. President, given the commitments that the Government has just made.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u106	I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u107	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for recognizing that, even if the State participates in the expenditure, this funding could not be provided without the assistance of local authorities, such as departments or regions. Thus, under the leadership of President Laurent Wauquiez, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region has potted 29 million euros to develop fiber. The aim of this amendment is to create a right to a quality internet. While the possibility of connecting is an essential service, 6.8 million consumers are still without it, particularly in our Loire department. The crisis of the covid-19 has only increased the inconveniences faced by these victims of the digital divide, because, since the beginning of the epidemic, the continuation of the activities indispensable to our society relies heavily on the Internet. As a result, everyone's access to a connection becomes, more than ever, a key issue. In order to take the measure, it is necessary to create a enforceable right and to accompany it with the measures necessary for its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u108	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u109	The implementation of France's very high-speed plan and that of Article 27 will give ARCEP sufficient resources to ensure that operators fulfil their commitments. I therefore believe, Mr Cinieri, that your amendment is satisfied with this text. I request its withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u110	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u111	Same opinion. I worked on this issue with the Federal Consumer Union, the UFC-Que choix, which would also have preferred a enforceable right. On a daily basis, however, the difference with a universal service would be small. The Government, supported by communities, operators and ARCEP, has made major commitments in terms of coverage. There is a universal service; We have committed ourselves that it will cover 100% of the fibre by 2025, which will be a unique case in Europe. From the consumer's point of view, once again, this is enough. The creation of a enforceable right in addition to universal service would constitute redundancy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u112	Amendment No 49 by Mrs Christine Hennion has already been defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u113	This is a commitment already made by Mrs Hennion on a text for which she was responsible. Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u114	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u115	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u116	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u117	I have a question about the scope of this amendment. According to Ms Hennion, it is intended to respond to the request made by Mr Philippe Vigier in his bill. In his brief, Mr. Vigier had referred to the absolute need to be informed of the plans for the deployment of the networks, in particular the 4G networks of the New Deal mobile. Although this amendment is a significant step forward, it applies only to sites with a flow rate of more than 100 megabits per second and therefore does not apply to 4G deployments in progress. I'm sorry. In all our territories, especially rural areas, we expect to understand what its coverage will be in terms of the 4G mobile network, whether in the context of the New Deal mobile or in that of the deployments specific to each operator. We don't know which areas will not be covered at the end of the New Deal. So how can we ensure that our citizens are fully covered?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u118	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u119	Mrs Hennion's amendment concerns the arrangements for planning the deployment of very high speed, designed to prevent operators from disrupting this deployment by providing inaccurate figures. It is a matter of translating into law a methodology that we already use. As far as the New Deal is concerned, within two weeks I will make a complete, indispensable point on the deployment of its networks in France and by department. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind all Members present that for the location of the sites of the targeted coverage scheme, i.e. the choice of the location of the towers in the years to come,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u120	That's a real question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u121	...we are waiting for the heads of each department, the local project teams, led by the prefects and the presidents of departmental councils.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u122	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u123	Members are obviously welcome on these teams. Please provide us with locations in white areas where you would like us to install pylons. Don't wait until the end of the year: 2020 is now too advanced, but by 2021, if we could have a list on 15 January, that would be as much winning for deployment. Once the site has been selected, for administrative reasons, it takes two years before the tower arrives; by allowing us to draw up this list by 15 January, you will bring back almost a year to the French citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u124	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor to support Amendment No. 47, which deletes Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u125	This amendment raises the problem of enabling the Government to legislate by ordinance on a subject that affects all French citizens: the balance between consumer and business protection. The drafting of the article is very vague, and the Government's intentions are unknown in view of the wide scope of the European Directive of 27 November 2019, known as "Omnibus", the purpose of which is to enable transposition by ordinances. During its consideration of the text in committee, the Government had admitted that work on the matter had only begun, that decisions had not yet been taken, and that consultation was under way. Without further consultation, it would certainly be harmful for us not to be better informed of the Government's intentions on matters of this importance, which affect the daily lives of the French. I have tabled this amendment in order to have the Government clarify at the sitting what it intends to do with the transposition of the Omnibus Directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u126	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u127	We did have this debate in committee. Article 2 empowers the Government to transpose by ordinance a complex directive, harmonized to the maximum, so that the margin of manoeuvre left to the legislator is extremely limited. We could have opted for transposition into the text itself; I have not retained this solution because French law is fundamentally protective, and because, after questioning the Government, I have received more than satisfactory answers, which are contained in the Commission's report. We will always have the opportunity to monitor the action of the Government, which is our mission as parliamentarians. While waiting for the Secretary of State to speak, I express an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u128	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u129	Firstly, many of the provisions contained in this directive do not require transposition measures, because Parliament has already legislated on the matter, so that our law is in line with the directive. This is particularly the case with regard to the transparency of online platforms, market places, comparators, online notices and the criteria to be used for sanctions. With regard to price reduction announcements, the transposition of the Directive will lead the Government to re-establish a requirement that our national law provided for until 2015: any announcement must be accompanied by an indication of the previous price, which is the lowest price that the trader has practised for a period of at least 30 days prior to the reduction. With regard to physical stalling, the "door-to-door", the Government did not intend to extend the withdrawal period, currently 14 days, which was sufficient. French law clearly defines the cases in which this right of withdrawal may be exercised: it is also not necessary to amend it on this point. On the other hand, the Government intends to consult on a possible framework for the days and time frames during which this would be allowed, as recently foreseen by the legislator for the telephone lock-up. It should also be ensured that the payment and withdrawal rules are consistent. The need for in-depth consultation with stakeholders, as well as the finalization of measures related to the European Commission, in this case justifies the use of the orders. For the sake of these explanations, I propose that you withdraw your amendment; If not, the Government's opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u130	Mrs Laure de La Raudière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u131	We had been asked by certain actors, in particular the Federation of Direct Sales, and I wanted to raise the problem of the withdrawal period, which is essential to the balance of the industry. As the Government has made a commitment not to touch it, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u132	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u133	The aim of this amendment is to exclude from the scope of transposition, therefore from authorisation, unsolicited visits and any measures relating to the terms of the right of withdrawal for contracts concluded during such a visit. Any over-legislation in this area would be to the detriment of the legitimate interests of businesses, consumers, freedom of trade and free competition within the internal market. Over-regulation would endanger off-premises sales, which are a legitimate and well-established sales channel. Nearly 700000 people work in the direct sales sector: these jobs could be weakened or even condemned by a change in the rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u135	I myself have been asked by representatives of direct sales companies; I heard their fears. However, we cannot deny ourselves the possibility of combating fraudulent or even abusive practices that can result from uninvited door-to-door chatting. I will be vigilant about the consultation that the Government will hold on the implementation of these provisions; I put it in the report. I ask that all stakeholders in the sector benefit from this consultation, so that they get involved in the best possible conditions. But this is not overtransposition: it is outlawed, as I said in my opening remarks. It is therefore within the framework of the directive that measures will be taken in this regard. I request the withdrawal of this amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u137	The details I provided to Mrs de La Raudière were also a response to this amendment. In addition, I agree with the rapporteur's request for stakeholder consultation. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u138	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u139	As I am not the author of this amendment, I can only maintain it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u140	Amendment No 10 by Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u141	Mr Michel Lauzzana has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u142	This amendment tends to correct an oversight in the original wording of the bill. In Article L.152-4 of the Monetary and Financial Code, it is a question of enabling the tax administration to sanction, not only the failure to comply with the obligation to report accompanied cash and the obligation to disclose unaccompanied cash – which is already provided for in the existing wording – but also the obligation to accompany the movement of cash in excess of EUR 50000 in documents justifying its origin. This specific requirement for cash movements exceeding EUR 50000 already existed before and it was already possible to sanction it. It is therefore logical that this should also be the case in the new wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u143	I call on the Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible and supportive, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u144	This is an amendment of editorial consistency, on which the Government gives a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u145	Mr Michel Lauzzana's amendment No 33 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u146	Amendment No 7 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel is being defended. The draftsman has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u147	The purpose of this amendment is to defuse the variable share of the remuneration of employees of investment firms. First of all, the wording of this amendment suffers from an impreciseness which deprives it of its normative character. In substance, investment firms do not have large portfolios of loans to individuals and businesses and do not accept deposits. Transposition would not result in less protection for savers or investors and therefore would not lead to instability in the financial system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u148	Amendment No 6 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u149	Amendment No 34 by Mr Michel Lauzzana is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u150	Amendment No 8 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier, introducing an additional article after Article 17, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u151	Amendment No 5 by Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u152	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u153	Genetic forcing is a technique that goes further than the modifications implemented for GMOs, genetically modified organisms, because, if they are extinguished at the end of the life of the plant or the modified living being, or cannot be transmitted to its offspring, gene transformations carried out by genetic forcing technology to resist certain herbicides or induce different behaviors in an animal or plant are transmitted from generation to generation. We're approaching Frankenstein! Man can now change nature and its relationship to life. Mr Minister for Agriculture, I welcome your arrival with us. The transposition of the European directives into the law that we are debating this afternoon carries the risk of leaving behind a loophole allowing some to carry out genetic transformations that could even be sustainable. A mosquito population, for example, would no longer have its original genes at all and, in a few generations, in a territory, all mosquitoes would carry this new gene introduced by man through genetic forcing. This process is very dangerous and we do not have any impact studies. The amendment therefore seeks to allow national representation to apply the precautionary principle in order not to lead France to this very important risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u155	Mr Lambert, I understand your concern, but your amendment is largely satisfied, because genetic engineering techniques are excluded from the scope of the regulation, hence from transposition by authorisation. I would therefore ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u156	The Minister for Agriculture and Food has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u157	I confirm the rapporteur's statement. It is very clear that the genetic forcing aspect does not fall within the scope of the regulation, which we must comply with. I therefore propose that the amendment be withdrawn, since it is satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u158	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u159	I therefore withdraw the amendment, but allow me, Minister, to ask you to confirm, if you can, the Government's commitment not to take the path of genetic forcing beyond the legal framework in which we are entering this afternoon in its overall policies. We must stay away from this risk, deadly in that it could change biodiversity to the detriment of what we want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u160	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u161	I confirm this to you, but in any case we cannot go where the European regulation does not allow us to do so, because it would be totally illegal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u162	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u163	The aim of this amendment is to extend the purposes of collecting data for breeding and improving the genetic heritage of farmed animals. As you know, this collection is essential. So far, the bill provided for this collection to be done for preservation purposes, but as a result of the debate we have had in the Senate, we propose with this amendment that it also apply to improvement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u164	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u165	We are very concerned that the provisions of paragraph 5 do not produce the opposite of what we want with the collection of data, particularly in the beekeeping field. The amendment therefore seeks to delete this paragraph, subject to the explanations of the rapporteur and the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u167	This paragraph also applies to other species, such as black bees. At least this is the result of our exchange with the Government, to which I leave it to you to provide the necessary clarification. For my part, I express an opinion against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u168	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u169	Same opinion. In response to your concern, honourable Member, it is a question, on the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 18, of providing for the possibility of extending or adapting to the beekeeping species the provisions relating to the reproduction and preservation of genetic resources. The ultimate goal is to protect Aboriginal beekeeping species. Hence my unfavorable opinion on your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u170	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u171	If I understand correctly, it is the opposite of my reading of this paragraph which, in your view, will allow us to strengthen the protection of Aboriginal beekeeping species, which was exactly my wish. There is therefore obviously no need to delete paragraph 5, and I therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u172	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 43, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u173	It aims to add to the mission of the Permanent Assembly of Chambers of Agriculture the collection of data on holdings required for the application of Regulation No 2016/429 on animal health, which aims to strengthen the prevention, surveillance and control of communicable animal diseases. Improved traceability of animals is essential to achieve these objectives and to maintain France's high level of economic and health performance. However, the number of operators involved in traceability obligations will increase considerably, which will lead to double the number of notifications to be sent to the Ministry of Agriculture, which will increase from 30 million to 60 million per year. The sectoral rules on animal identification and movement and the obligation to keep records must therefore be adapted. The data are currently being collected by livestock establishments located in the chambers of agriculture, and there is a need for a computer system to enable them to recover efficiently and quickly in order to meet the obligations imposed by the European Union. Centralisation of the data collected by livestock establishments should be possible at the level of the Permanent Assembly of Chambers of Agriculture. Farmers and operators will thus have a one-stop shop for declarations of their holding. We see that the law is sometimes necessary to do things that are purely internal management. This is the case here and this is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u174	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u175	The aim of this amendment is to regulate the transposition of this directive – an issue on which I spoke during the general discussion – by specifying that the numerous financial and non-financial information that the Financial Intelligence Units – CRF –, the French law enforcement authorities and Europol can exchange are in full compliance with European and national legislation on the protection of personal data. Since the exchange of information envisaged is wide-ranging, all the necessary guarantees must be provided. We would like you, Mr. Minister, to reassure us on this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u176	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u177	I believe that you will be reassured, Mrs Battistel, since the texts that guarantee the protection of personal data, in particular the general regulation on the protection of personal data, said GDPR, applies in this case. A transposition order that does not respect the protection of personal data would be both contrary to European and French law. As he is satisfied, I invite you to withdraw the amendment, failing which the opinion would be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u179	As the subject is not agriculture, I will simply read the argument put forward by my colleague from Bercy. Beyond what the rapporteur has said, the amendment appears to be insufficiently precise in that it does not detail in any way the provisions which should be complied with in the context of this transposition. It would therefore be unclear as to the scope of the Government's authority to transpose Directive 2019/1153 and could hinder Parliament and the Government in their duty to respect the constitutional principle of transposing the directives. Moreover, it appears that this amendment, even if it were clarified, would be unnecessary. Indeed, Directive 2019/1153 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the exchange of information between the Union authorities to prevent financial crime provides itself with the modalities for its interaction with the General Regulation on the protection of personal data. It contains many obligations to ensure the protection of personal data, both during their processing and their exchange. Their non-compliance would constitute a sub-transposition which would be immediately noted by the Commission and for which France could be prosecuted. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u180	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u181	I'm only half reassured. We are talking about information on financial exchanges, but not just because there are also non-financial exchanges. So I wanted to make sure that all exchanges were well protected and controlled. You tell us, however, that everything should be secure, and that my amendment would sub-transpose European law. I would like to hear your assurances, while drawing your attention to this matter which we believe is important. In any event, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u182	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u183	Veterinary desertification in rural areas is a major issue, not only for farmers but also for all French people, committed to quality local and national products. Without veterinarians, all production is called into question, as veterinarians play a central role in the detection and management of animal diseases and in the issuance of many certifications. However, the territorial grid is spreading at an alarming rate. L'Oise, for example, loses one rural veterinarian a year. For the 1030 cattle farms and the 200 sheep and goat farms in my department, they would be only 11 doctors specializing in rural areas, and some also work in neighbouring departments. This shortage leads to absurd, if not extreme, and dangerous situations for both animals and those who care for them, when on average more than an hour and a half is to be expected from a veterinarian. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Jean-Claude Leclabart also applauds]] If more and more farmers are trained to cope with this shortage, we must quickly take all the necessary measures to reverse this trend. Article 24c therefore allows local and regional authorities, as some are doing to combat human medical desertification, to grant installation aid to veterinarians and veterinary students. I have already had the opportunity to raise the subject with the Government, there is an urgent need to act, it is a matter of the future of agricultural holdings and more generally of our rural territories. France is no longer France without its farmers. So we're counting on you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u184	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No 1, which sets out an additional rule after Rule 22c. This amendment is the subject of a sub-amendment No 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u185	This amendment by my colleague Julien Dive aims to incorporate biostimulants into the rural and marine fisheries code. Biostimulants modify "natural" biological processes in the plant or soil. They also have an indirect effect on the bioaggressive by strengthening the resistance of plants to a given pressure. They therefore limit the intakes of mineral fertilizers, but also plant protection products. Currently, the Rural and Maritime Fisheries Code does not define biostimulants as such. It operates only different referrals, to finally land on a plant protection chapter, while, since June 2019, European regulations very clearly define biostimulants. I do not read this definition, but it would be good to include it in our rural code.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u186	Mrs Valéria Faure-Muntian has the floor to support sub-amendment No 59 and to give the Committee's opinion as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u187	This is a specific sub-amendment. I thank Mr Dive for reworking his amendment taking into account the 2019 regulations. I am in favour of this if my sub-amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u188	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u189	I also thank Mr Dive and the rapporteur, because this issue of biostimulants is very important. I have with me the definition of biostimulants and I understand why Mr.Minot did not read it, because it is very complex, but it is important to apply it at home. Thank you for this progress. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr. Minot, to stress the relevance of your comments on veterinary medical deserts. We have done a great deal of work in the Senate on this issue, and rule 2 quater, which your House has just adopted, is a very significant step forward. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] I would also like to inform the national representation that we have just launched, five days ago, the major agricultural census, which takes place every ten years. The 400,000 farmers in France will be questioned for this census. This will give us a precise state of farming and allow us to deepen the mapping of the veterinary deserts. I think that you can, each of you, carry it in your territories because it is something very expected, which only intervenes all the decades, since 1892. You can see that sometimes old things are good.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u190	Mrs Pascale Boyer has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u191	The Rural and Maritime Fisheries Code lays down penalties for the import, sale, distribution, advertising, use or misuse of a fertilising material which does not have or is not in conformity with a marketing authorisation or a planned exemption from authorisation. However, Regulation 2019/1009 will allow access to new fertilizers in the common market. Its entry into force in 2022 will therefore result in the placing on the market in France of many CE marked fertilizers, which must be subject to checks and penalties in the event of non-compliance. My amendment simply seeks to bring them within the legal framework of existing sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u192	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u193	Favourable opinion. It is indeed necessary to include in the rural code the reference to these products, within the framework of free movement within the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u195	Same opinion. Thank you, Mrs Boyer, for defending this necessary amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u196	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 44, which is the subject of a sub-amendment 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u197	This important amendment has been the subject of many discussions between us. This concerns the management of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, and in particular the EAFRD funds. These funds are widely used, particularly for agri-environmental measures, but not only for EAWs. In the recent past, it has been noted that this management sometimes raises difficulties, due to a cross-governance that is good but sometimes makes things more complex than it seems. We have therefore worked with the regions of France and the national representation to achieve the balance that I propose to you through this amendment. It provides for a division between the so-called non-superfacial measures, e.g. aid for the establishment of young farmers, who will be the responsibility of the regions, and the superfacial aid, e.g. the MAEs, which will be the responsibility of the State, in consultation of course with the territories, in accordance with current practice. The aim of this amendment is to enable the Government to legislate by means of ordinances, because the European regulation defining the future CAP is still not published. I cannot therefore present a measure to be included in the hard text of the law, because I must refer to this European regulation which, to date, is still not published.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u198	The draftsman has the floor to support sub-amendment No 61 and give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u199	Several visits and returns took place because this provision had been removed by the Senate, which called for negotiations with the regions. However, these negotiations had taken place as there had been a Memorandum of Understanding since 2019; Even if some regions had called it into question, since yesterday we have a joint communiqué between the Prime Minister and the regions, with agreement on the sharing of powers relating to the EAFRD. The superfacial and non-superfacial rules are now well defined. It was a necessity, after many complications and delays in payment that were detrimental to our farmers. This amendment restores things: favourable opinion. My sub-amendment brings a simple clarification, replacing the words "80 to 91" with the word "following", in order to avoid any transposition problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u200	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u201	This article proposes the urgent transposition of copyright and satellite cable directives. The Republicans Group bitterly regrets being deprived of a rich and exciting debate on the audiovisual reform bill, whose examination seems to have been a curse for three years. We also regret this transposition in the form of orders, which deprives us of an in-depth parliamentary discussion. But let us not interpret this transposition as a simple administrative measure, with a view to complying with a European obligation; Rather, they support these essential provisions, which are very much expected of authors, artists and professionals in the media and cultural industries, by adapting them to our right. This was proposed by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, which was seized on the substance of this article, by adopting an amendment which should enable HADOPI to exercise all its expertise to protect shared content, which is still too often exploited without the permission of authors and artists. A further step will thus be taken towards the modernisation of copyright in Europe by facilitating the transfer of rights for satellite broadcasting and cable retransmission services to the Union's single market. It was largely under the influence of France and after a long fight that the Copyright Directive was adopted by the European Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I will conclude by recalling that France is proud to be a driving force in copyright matters since Beaumarchais. In the end, it led the rest of the European Union in its struggle to promote a conception other than that of copyright in the United States. The Copyright Directive will therefore make it possible to better protect intellectual property rights on content-sharing platforms and to guarantee the right of authors and artists to remuneration proportional to the fruits of the exploitation of works.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u202	On Article 24a, I have a request for a public ballot before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u203	The 2016 law on freedom of creation, architecture and heritage introduced into the intellectual property code an unprecedented mechanism of compulsory collective management applicable to image search engines; In particular, it enables authors of visual, graphic or photographic works of art to be remunerated without obviously hindering the development of these online services. However, this mechanism has still not been implemented because of a subsequent decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The amendment is therefore intended to allow the Government to amend the provisions of the Intellectual Property Code in order to bring this into line with European Union law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u204	The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u205	I am very pleased to be with you today, not only to replace Roselyne Bachelot, who could not be present, but also to deal with European subjects which, as you said, Mrs Duby-Muller, are very important. The fact that these provisions are transposed by enabling legislation and ordinances is not a sign of disinterest but shows, as you have also noted, the urgency and need to act in this area. Several of these provisions have already been debated in the context of the audiovisual bill, before the health crisis upsets the parliamentary calendar. Madam draftsman, you have pointed out that the copyright directives contain very important advances in the sharing of value between creators and operators of works. The purpose of the device you refer to is specifically to guarantee the remuneration of artists in the visual arts, when their works are referenced by image engines: it is in this sense exactly in the logic of sharing value. This arrangement was almost unanimously voted by Parliament in 2016, but could not be put in place due to difficulties in complying with European law. The Government shares your concern: it too wants to move forward. Be assured of his commitment, in particular that of the Minister of Culture, to work on this mechanism in the context of the transposition he proposes, particularly of Article 12 of the 2019 Copyright Directive. This will be done, particularly in the light of the work that has been conducted by the Conseil supérieur de la propriété littéraire et artistique since 2019, as well as in the framework of a consultation that the Minister of Culture will conduct with all the actors concerned, a consultation in which the Government still wishes to involve parliamentarians in its next steps. It thus provides a set of guarantees that takes into account your legitimate concern. Be sure that this consultation, led by Roselyne Bachelot, will allow us to comply with your request. I hope that you will withdraw your amendment for the benefit of these explanations, Mrs Bergé; Otherwise, I will give him an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u206	Mrs. Bergé? ...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u207	Since the Government's comments could reassure the visual arts sector, the amendment was obviously withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u208	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u209	It is not an amendment of provocation but, as I have expressly indicated in his summary statement and as I reiterate here, an amendment of appeal. His writing, I readily confess, is certainly not optimal, but he calls for a debate in our Chamber on a fundamental subject: the sharing of the value and fair remuneration of performers, proportional to the income generated by their works. It is therefore necessary at this stage to remove from the scope of transposition Article 18 of the 2019 Directive, which relates to their remuneration. In this way, I echo the strong concerns that have been expressed most recently in a petition, co-signed by more than 15,000 performers, addressed to the Minister of Culture, raised by the drafting of future orders, in particular on the sharing of value and thus on the proportionality of the remuneration of performers. It would appear that the Government provides for exceptions, derogations from the scheme, which cause them to fear that they will not be able to benefit fully from the scheme introduced by this European directive. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is well known that it has been the subject of very long and laborious negotiations, in particular Article 18, the fruit of very delicate compromises. I therefore expect assurances from the Government, like other colleagues, on how it will deal with the essential issue of the remuneration of performers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u210	Mrs Aurore Bergé, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u211	Madam Member, I know your commitment to the rights of performers: you yourself showed this when you were a Member of the European Parliament and, of course, in our Committee on Cultural Affairs. I understand your concern, but, as you said at the outset, this is an appeal amendment, since our debate in committee, during the first reading of the audiovisual communication bill, was intended to devote already in our law a proportional and appropriate remuneration for performers. That is the whole point of this urgent transposition of the directives concerned. I believe that the Secretary of State will complement my remarks by clarifying the Government's commitments in this area, which should reassure performers. You know how much the whole Committee on Cultural Affairs shares your concerns about respect for the rights of performers. I therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u212	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u213	You yourself pointed out, Madam Member, that this was an appeal amendment, which shows that this debate is taking place in a constructive spirit. And this call will be heard. You recalled the concerns expressed by the profession and I would like to highlight the Government's attention to the specific issue of the remuneration of performers. I commit myself on behalf of the Government – the Minister of Culture will be particularly vigilant on this point – that the transposition of the directive does not result in derogations perceived as being too extensive in relation to the principle of proportional remuneration. We will take care of this, too, in consultation, but the work has already begun to remove the misunderstandings on this subject. I wanted to respond to this important call, Madam Member, and to welcome, as the rapporteur for an opinion has just done, your commitment to a previous parliamentary life on this subject. Bearing in mind that you will know, if necessary, to remind the Government with vigilance, I would ask you to withdraw this amendment in view of what I have just made clear. Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u214	Mrs Le Grip, is the amendment withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u215	Yes, Mr President, given the replies of the rapporteur and the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government. I will be vigilant, but I am confident that we will continue our work on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u216	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 32, 21, 22 and 23, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u217	It has the same objective as the previous one: to ensure that the work of transposing the Directive faithfully respects the balances achieved, particularly with regard to copyright. The amendment is therefore intended to reproduce in paragraph 3 the text of recital 73 of the Directive in order to ensure full recognition of the right of performers to proportional and appropriate remuneration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u218	We come to Amendments Nos 21, 22 and 23, which can be presented together. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support them and to give the committee's opinion on Amendment No 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u219	Mrs Le Grip's amendment echoes the one that I tabled in committee when I considered the bill on audiovisual communication. If I have tabled three amendments, it makes it possible to distinguish the different subjects. Amendment No 21 concerns the remuneration of performers, knowing that the remuneration must be not only proportional but also appropriate to the economic value of the works – we remember the debates we had during the examination of the audiovisual bill. While the rights and interests of performers must of course be safeguarded, collective agreements must also be safeguarded, often obtained from a high level of struggle. The purpose of Amendment No 22 is not to allow online public communication services whose main purpose is to infringe copyright and related rights, i.e. pirated sites, to benefit from the mechanisms of exemption from liability for the content they share. This seems quite obvious, but I think it is better to make it clear explicitly. Finally, Amendment No 23 seeks to protect the contractual freedom of authors, performers and producers who do not wish the content of the work on which they have rights to be shared on platforms. They must not be forced to do so. It is also a matter of making this explicit in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u220	I would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that only Mrs Le Grip's amendment is incompatible with the other three. What is the Government's opinion on these four amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u221	First of all, I shall return briefly to the issue of proportional pay. The Government ensures that this principle is respected: the debates in your Cultural Affairs Commission last March made it possible to be clear on the subject by adopting the words, inter alia, "proportional remuneration appropriate to economic value". Therefore, it seems to me that the balance that has been reached is a response to your concern. On Amendments Nos 32 and 21, I am therefore obliged to give an unfavourable opinion, because the text, as it stands, seems to me to ensure the balance sought. By Amendments Nos 22 and 23, you call on the rapporteur for an opinion to add very important clarifications, on which I shall stop for a moment. Firstly, the exemption from liability must of course not apply to pirated sites – this is the subject of Amendment No 22. It seems to me that the text already makes this clear, but, as this issue is very sensitive, the Government is relying on the wisdom of Parliament if it considers it necessary to make it absolutely clear. Similarly, with regard to Amendment No 23, the obligation must be very clear: online content sharing sites have an obligation to obtain the necessary authorisations from rights holders, but this constraint is not symmetrical. It is the freedom of contract that you refer to that applies: the granting of these authorizations is in no way binding on rightholders. Given the practices of some of the sites and platforms we have observed in recent months, this clarification may be useful. Again, the Government is relying on the wisdom of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u222	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u223	I would like to return to the statement made by the Minister of Culture, who had undertaken, in return for the very unusual procedure in cultural and audiovisual matters represented by the use of the ordinances, that the latter, which the Government will submit to our ratification, respect the balances found on this issue. This is the objective of our colleagues Constance Le Grip and Aurore Bergé, whose amendments are intended to ensure that the spirit and letter of the European directives are faithfully respected – a respect which the Minister of Culture in committee has attached to, but which has been called into question. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] I would point out that the European directives ensure the maintenance of economic balances and allow performers to receive appropriate and proportionate remuneration. These amendments also echo the petition signed by 15,000 performers who recently asked the Minister of Culture about sharing value on the Internet. I am sure that these transparency amendments will win everyone's support, given our common commitment to this principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u224	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u225	I intervene on this text, which does not seem to be passionate about the crowds, at the end of its examination – I was not able to arrive before – to say all the evil that I think of it. This kind of arrangement, taken clandestinely, in the time of François Mitterrand first, Jacques Chirac then – let's not even talk about Nicolas Sarkozy or François Hollande – led to the fact that the French people were never informed of an ounce of European law, everything being settled by presidential orders. At least today you are pretending – I pay tribute to you, Mr President, as well as to the majority – to submit it to our debates. It doesn't matter if everything's tied up and there's absolutely nothing to say. I am also pleased that Mrs Aurore Bergé is about the same wavelength as I am – I have not heard all of her comments, but I think that is the case. I wonder about the practical applications of the text. Will it give the Member of Parliament for the electoral district of Bethune the opportunity to intervene against the closure of the factory planned there and the possible dismissal of 863 employees? Does it give the possibility to intervene to repair the villages and roads destroyed by the terrible floods that took place in three valleys of the Alpes-Maritimes? That is the first part of my speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u226	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u227	We had worked extensively on these issues during the consideration of the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age. Members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education had made several suggestions and had made real progress on important issues. It was before the crisis. Since then, the sector has been partially affected and its actors are very concerned. Of course, we were not in favour of the reform taking place by means of ordinances, even though we all understand the urgency of voting now to transpose European directives. We will do so and we will vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur for an opinion, but I would nevertheless like to stress the relevance of Mrs Le Grip's speech: on the question of the remuneration of artists-authors, even if things are now settled, the discussion is still ongoing. Everyone feels well, moreover, that many artists-authors are still not convinced that the measures that will be taken will go far enough to ensure that they are recognized and that the situation evolves in the desired direction. We really hope that the provisions that were adopted by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education during the examination of the bill will be retained in the ordinances, but I believe it would still be necessary to remain open and to continue discussions with the sector, to define with its actors the possible developments that are still possible and to give them greater confidence in the future. The past period has been difficult. If the draftsman's proposals are interesting, there is still a great deal of concern that we must take into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u228	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u229	The concern expressed on various benches is legitimate. It concerns the procedure and the time limits. Again, the use of orders was not initially envisaged, since a parliamentary debate had been initiated. This procedure is linked to delays in the health – and therefore political and economic – context we know. However, the principles will be respected and, as a follow-up to the discussions in committee on the text on audiovisual communication, your concerns will be heard. With regard to the appropriate and proportionate remuneration of the authors, again, a concerted effort will be carried out. The Minister of Culture is committed to continuing this discussion. There is therefore no passage in catini, Mr Lassalle, although I must tell you that future orders will not solve all our difficulties. That is not their ambition. However, for a profession that is experiencing additional difficulties with the crisis, the reason for urgency seems to me to be particularly strong. With regard to remuneration, in particular for performers, I have failed to clarify earlier that the issue of the use of lump sum is one of the issues on which the Minister of Culture will work in the context of the transposition of the European directive – without making it an exclusive or excessive modality, because abuses are possible. This is one of the concrete avenues of work that will be explored in the ongoing dialogue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u230	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u231	[[Mr. Maxime Minot smiles]] Mr Lassalle's speech allows me to reply, at the same time, to Mrs Le Pen and Mrs Autain – who unfortunately left the Chamber after the general discussion – to make sure that there is no forceful passage or examination in catini. One of our colleagues, who was a Member of the European Parliament before being a Member of the National Assembly and was therefore able to follow this work in its entirety, can also testify to the fact that Europe does not legislate in catini, nor does the National Assembly. Evidence of this is that we are debating today in order to move forward on the fundamental issues of respect for copyright and performers and the need for fairer remuneration for performers. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the LR group]] We can all welcome this and, I hope, vote unanimously in favour of measures to strengthen the creation, diversity and cultural sovereignty of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u232	I have before me two amendments, Nos 9 and 31, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mrs Brigitte Kuster has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u233	First of all, I welcome the constructive nature of this discussion, as well as the work undertaken with the rapporteur for an opinion. Several amendments were defended by the Republican Group, notably by Constance Le Grip. Amendment No 9 concerns overtransposition, which we wish to avoid, as, I suppose, everyone here. Since the route of the ordinances has been preferred for the transposition of the directive on copyright and related rights – the reasons have been recalled – the French legislator should protect itself from risks. Therefore, in order to remain as faithful as possible to the balances found during the negotiations at European level and to avoid any overtransposition or reinterpretation contrary to the intention of the European legislator, we propose to amend paragraph 3 of Article 24a by inserting the words "in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the Directive, in particular with regard to Articles 17 and 18, as specified respectively by recitals 61 to 70 and 73 of the Directive".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u235	Amendment No 31 by Mrs Constance The Grip is forbidden. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u236	I am, of course, in favour of the amendments that you are presenting, because they are designed to maintain the balance that we defended in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education last March. However, you will agree with me that their wording, according to which it is necessary to remain as faithful as possible to the directive, is unfortunately somewhat confused in legal terms. On the substance, I cannot, as rapporteur of the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age, as well as the text we are considering today, but join you. However, the Government, in the person of the Minister of Culture, has already made a very clear commitment to drafting orders that will respect the balances found in the commission. I believe that this commitment will be reiterated today. We have accepted, as parliamentarians, the use of orders to move forward quickly, but we obviously wish, Mr. Secretary of State, that the balances we have defined be respected. With regard to the commitments made clearly by the Government, request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u238	You are right to point out that an extremely fine balance – Mrs Le Grip knows this all the better because she participated in the previous stages of the negotiations – has been found, at European level, between Parliament and the Council, between different political and geographical sensitivities, between operators and creators. This balance must be preserved in its entirety. The recitals to which you referred will of course shed light on the work of transposing the texts on the basis of the authorization which the Assembly may give the Government, and, as the rapporteur for an opinion has pointed out, our aim is to go as quickly as possible, not to truncate the debate, but to ensure that artists, operators and creators are protected as quickly as possible. I would like to take this opportunity to stress – but you know, because you are attentive to these debates – that at European level, some of our partners, who are currently transposing, sometimes in a different direction from ours, could call into question the balance that is difficult to find in Europe. We therefore need two tasks: to ensure that you maintain the balance that you are defending – I am committed to it on behalf of the Government and the Minister of Culture is extremely committed to it; and to conduct diplomatic action at European level to ensure that the European Commission and our other partners are assured that their own transposition work will not undermine this balance, the risk being that such a challenge will be made to the detriment of creators and artists. In the light of these explanations, I would ask you to withdraw these amendments. Otherwise, the Government would have to express an unfavourable opinion, not by rejecting the substance, but by going quickly to ensure respect for the text and its balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u239	This is a constructive discussion!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u240	The members of the Committee on Cultural Affairs are working very constructively, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u241	As always!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u242	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u243	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u244	The purpose of this amendment is to recall the importance of the principle of proportionality referred to in Article 17 of the Directive. Several creators, including those working on platforms that respect the rights of authors and performers, have alerted us to how the text could be interpreted. It is therefore an appeal amendment, seeking assurances from the Government on the application of the principle of proportionality, which is enshrined in the European Directive and which guarantees respect for the rights of authors and neighbouring rights while preserving full freedom of creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u246	If you empower us, as we ask you, to take these measures to transpose the European directives, the principle of differentiation, proportionality will be properly applied through various means – which are still to be refined – such as a change in remuneration arrangements or the introduction of thresholds. This reminder is important because proportionality is a key principle of European negotiation and is at the heart of the text we are discussing today, the aim being, in particular, that some platforms, more recent or smaller – both often going hand in hand – are not subject to exactly the same obligations as others. On the basis of these explanations, which I hope to be reassuring, I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u247	I put rule 24 bis to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u248	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 56 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 56 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u249	On Amendment No 36, on the additional article after Rule 24a, I have before me a request for a public ballot before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u250	It is important because a recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 8 September last came to completely disrupt the practice followed so far in application of the principle of reciprocity of international conventions. Fair remuneration rights collected on registrations from third States that had notified reservations were thus far considered to be "irreparable legal rights". Beyond the somewhat technical nature of this expression, the ECJ's decision deprives producers of recorded music and performers of EUR 25 million in aid for the production of albums, video-musics or promotional activities. If this decision were to come into force, the amount of losses related to the reimbursement of aid for the past could eventually reach 140 million. At a time when the cultural sector, particularly the music sector, is going through the crisis we are experiencing, it is easy to see how untenable such a situation would be. In order to remedy this, this amendment validates the use of the sums allocated in the past by collective management bodies in support of creation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As the Assembly has always been committed to supporting artists and creators, it cannot be imagined that the decision of the CJEU would undermine the existing balances for a long time and further disturb a situation which is already of particular concern to the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u251	Very good intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u252	She would have deserved to be president of her group!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u254	The problem raised by the rapporteur for an opinion is very important, as is the amendment which seeks to resolve it. The decision taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union could, as you pointed out, call into question the functioning of our collective management bodies. Some non-European actors have indeed used the legal vacuum that exists in the 2006 directive to challenge this system. I therefore believe that it is necessary to secure your wishes through this amendment. I would add, on behalf of the Government, that beyond this action, we must quickly start working with collective management bodies, with parliamentarians and with European bodies to fill this legal vacuum so that the system of irreparables – a technical term but so important – is not called into question through amendments to the directive or other means. All avenues are open and we look at them, the objective, clear and shared, being to secure the collective management organizations that are at the heart of our cultural model of protecting artists and creators. I thank you for this amendment, to which the Government is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u255	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u256	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Republican Group will of course vote for the rapporteur's amendment, which we need because it will provide immediate legal certainty. We must recognize and commend the prominent role played by the collective management bodies for the rights of artists and producers, particularly during the health crisis, which has hit the cultural sector for a very long time. Under these circumstances, they have been perfectly up to their missions and responsibilities. It is therefore important to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u257	I put to the vote Amendment No 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u258	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 59 Number of votes cast 59 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 59 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u259	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u260	I followed – in full for some of them, in a slightly less complete way for others – the course of several directives within the European institutions and the process of their transposition into French law. I am thinking of the so-called cable-satellite directive, the one on copyright and the SMA directive, on audiovisual media services, which is referred to in this article in particular. In view of the outcome of Articles 24a and 24b, I would like to express my satisfaction as a former Member of the European Parliament, as well as that of my political family, whose members, whatever their function and the place or institution in which they exercise it, have always defended the recognition and protection of property rights, whether intellectual or immaterial, and have always fought for recognition of the right to fair remuneration for work, effort and merit, including that of creators. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why we are very pleased to vote in favour of Article 24 ter as we have done for Article 24 bis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u261	On Article 24 ter, I have a request for a public ballot before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u262	First of all, I thank you for your high vision of the presidency of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u263	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u264	[[Smile]] It touches me. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his willingness to reply to me during the examination of article 24 bis, although there was nothing to oblige him to do so – I appreciate this attitude because I do not count the number of ministers who, before him, did not reply to me when they could have done so. Finally, I would like to thank the draftsman, who has made a great deal of effort to answer my question because I must admit that my remarks were not really relevant to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u265	It happens quite often!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u266	It depends, dear colleague! I speak when it is necessary. When I read: "Bill on various provisions for adapting to European Union economic and financial law", given all that I have seen here for some 20 years, I exercise the utmost caution. I will not be able to vote on this bill, which allows so many ordinances on so many European directives because these transpositions have ruined the idea of European citizenship in all countries, no more or less. The marasm in which we find ourselves today is ours, and our action for thirty years, that we owe it – congratulations to us. However, at the time of voting on Article 24a, two of the Members whom I consider most, Frédérique Dumas and Constance Le Grip, told me – the first by slipping it in my ear, the second by his eyes – that the Libertés et territoires groups and the Republicans were in favour of this article because it aims to improve the lot of artists, creators and producers, as confirmed by the Secretary of State and the rapporteur. This shows how useful the debate is. An average Member of Parliament like me, who came from deep France, is able to be persuaded when things are explained to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u267	There's no average MP!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u268	I therefore congratulate Mrs Dumas, Mrs Le Grip – who, it seems, worked night and day – and the other Members for the good work they have done. I encourage all artists to thank the Libertés et territoires groups and the Republicans, as well as, finally, all the other groups since everyone agrees. On the other hand, do not ask me to vote in favour of a directive, it is above my strength: in twenty years I have never done so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u269	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u270	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for being here to highlight Europe's wealth in terms of culture. Madam draftsman, I thank you for defending the transposition of European progress into national law. We soon come to the end of a long journey that we have travelled together for several months, the starting point of which was the consideration of the bill on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age. By unanimously adopting Article 24a, we make it possible to transpose the directives on copyright and related rights. However, the transposition of the Directive on audiovisual media services was also discussed in the Assembly, but these were interrupted due to confinement. Four months later, there is an urgent need for this transposition – which is expected to be adopted no later than 19 September this year. We are already in October. This directive is essential because it reflects two major advances made by France at European level. The first is the extension to the regulatory platforms carried out by the CSA, the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel, the second – which is not the least – is the contribution of audiovisual media services that target our territory to the French system of support for creation – a system to which we are very attached because it ensures the sustainability and quality of our creation. In the context of the health crisis that we experienced, we found that the platforms were experiencing an increase in their attendance, so much so that it would be a shame not to be able to make them contribute to our system of support for French creation today. As Minister Roselyne Bachelot pointed out, we are not supporters of the use of orders but, in this case, the urgency of the situation justifies them. Members of Parliament, on all benches, express their willingness, responsibly and with confidence, that from January 2021 onwards the platforms contribute to the financing of French creation. The discussions that we had during the discussion of article 24 bis and those that we will have during the discussion of article 24 ter show that we are very committed to ensuring respect for our previous discussions, particularly with regard to the coexistence of traditional and digital actors, in order to ensure the sustainability and quality of the financing of our creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u271	Amendment No 26 by Mrs Aurore Bergé is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u272	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u273	The aim of this appeal amendment is to resume the drafting that was developed last March by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education when it considered the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age. It guarantees that all services whose turnover exceeds a threshold to be determined by decree in the Council of State and which cannot be less than EUR 10 million will be subject to contribution to production obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u275	You had defended this amendment in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education when considering the draft law on audiovisual communication. You know that I am in favour of it: our committee had adopted it. This important precision is able to reassure the actors on the threshold from which they would be concerned. It seems to me, however, that, in the context of transposition, it cannot be included in the law, but the Government is, I believe, ready to make commitments in this area, so that the balances reached by you in committee are respected. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise I will express an unfavorable opinion on this one.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u277	I understand your concern and I know that you have adopted this provision in your previous discussions. However, two new elements need to be taken into account. First of all, as the draftsman pointed out, setting a threshold in this area is rather the order of the decree than the law. Even if your concern is known and heard, it is appropriate, on the subject, to maintain legislative flexibility. Then, since these discussions took place, the professionals, in connection with the departments of the Ministry of Culture, have begun a negotiation. In the name of the flexibility we are seeking, I think it would be harmful to send them the message that we are already freezing the threshold. I would therefore ask you, like the rapporteur for an opinion, to withdraw your amendment. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u278	Mrs Florence Provendier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u279	I thank the draftsman for her explanations and the Secretary of State for the confirmations he has given. I had heard that you were moving in line with my request: therefore, I am withdrawing my amendment. I will remain attentive to the actors in my constituency who are directly affected by these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u280	Amendment No 27 by Mrs Aurore Bergé is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u281	Mrs Céline Calvez has the floor to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u282	Supported by the La République group on the move, it aims to provide two useful clarifications in the context of the current negotiations to bring foreign services targeting France into the field of production. The first objective is to extend the possibility of sharing to audiovisual production, between the various audiovisual media services on demand, so that this option is not limited to film production. More generally, this amendment does not restrict the possibility of sharing to the concept of "group" since this option must also be open to the same company publishing several services. If we have already introduced in committee the possibility of mutualisation within the same group, it also seems necessary that a single company publishing several services should be able to pool its various contributions to French creation. This amendment, which does not in any way call into question the existence of two distinct corridors, audiovisual and cinema, should enrich the negotiations. I hope it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u283	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u284	I am obviously in favour of this, for several reasons. First of all, it clearly specifies the existence of two separate corridors giving rise to dedicated funding, on the one hand, for audiovisual works and, on the other, for cinematographic works. It is very important to remind him. It then introduces a form of flexibility in pooling within the same group or between different media services. Finally, your amendment responds to the twofold objective of simplifying and clarifying the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u285	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u286	I can only associate myself with this favourable opinion. Indeed, the proposed dual clarification is useful, both to introduce the possibility of pooling contributions to audiovisual production, and, as you and the rapporteur have pointed out, to add flexibility by giving the possibility of mutualisation not only to groups of companies, but also to each society itself, when it publishes several services. I repeat: the Government can only support this amendment, which proposes a useful or even necessary provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u287	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u288	It relates to a very important subject, in connection with the European directive on audiovisual media services: the chronology of the media. As several speakers pointed out at the beginning of the discussion of this article, one of the major contributions of the directive is to extend the scope of European texts to new platforms, including those of subscription-on-demand videos installed outside our territory, which will now contribute to our ecosystem and to the financing of its production. It is necessary to adapt the chronology of the media accordingly, respecting its key principle: the degree of contribution of each publisher to the financing of the cinema must have an impact on the operating window from which it benefits. Since we extend the scope of the contribution, it is normal to also adjust the chronology of the media. This must be done through negotiations between professionals, and we do not question this principle at all; However, this amendment proposes to allow the Government to set a deadline – six months after the date of publication of the order – in order to encourage stakeholders to organize this discussion within a reasonable time. This is not a new practice: in the 2009 Act, such an incentive had already been introduced. The Government proposes to proceed in the same way. I stress that this essential step forward is the result of the expansion of the system of contribution to film financing by the ADM directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u289	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u290	The chronology of the media is an essential principle, which makes it possible to preserve the cinema; It is an opportunity to recall that, for us, a film is a work that first comes out in the cinema, contrary to what some actors would like – some of which unfortunately withdraw from the theaters. If 6000 screens continue to exist in our country, it is thanks to the protection provided by the chronology of the media. However, as you said, it must also be able to be revised and modernised, in the context of negotiations between the actors, as has been done several times in the past. Setting a deadline allows us to highlight the commitment of all actors, such as ours, so that the new obligations associated with audiovisual media services make sense. Modernizing the chronology of the media is necessary to reaffirm our principles of diversity and cultural sovereignty. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u291	I put Rule 24 ter to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u292	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 57 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 57 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u293	We have completed our review of the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u294	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-07-O1010.u295	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Proposal for a law to strengthen the right to abortion; Proposal for a law on initial measures to prohibit certain practices causing suffering in animals and to improve their living conditions; Proposal for a law to create equal and effective parental leave; Draft law on citizen sponsorship for refugees, stateless persons and protected persons. The meeting is adjourned.
