ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate after the expedited procedure, to improve access to disability compensation (No. 2371, 2538).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u2	Mrs Sophie Cluzel, Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u3	I am very pleased to be here before you today to review the proposed legislation to improve access to disability compensation benefit – PCH. This text shows that the parliamentary initiative is a sign of progress for our citizens. It also shows that, in terms of disability, we are able to unite around this cardinal goal of the full participation of persons with disabilities in our society, to which our fellow citizens as a whole have everything to gain. This subject is a powerful driver of social cohesion. It gathers, on your benches as in society and in our territories. I want to remind you and see it without exception during each of my trips by your side. That goal had been prioritized by the Government, which was also committed, as demonstrated by the various measures it had taken for more than two years. I would like to remind you, in this particular period, that I, together with my colleague Nicole Belloubet, have opened up the right to vote to nearly 300,000 persons of age under guardianship. We have thus introduced 300,000 French and French citizens into unconditional citizenship. I have no doubt that you will be an effective relay of this measure in the coming weeks. I would also like to recall, because it is not unrelated to our subject today, that we have embarked on a massive movement to simplify the procedures of the people concerned, which is essential if we really want to facilitate people's lives, create the conditions of trust with our different administrations and restore everyone to his dignity. These simplification measures include the granting of life rights on the allowance for adults with disabilities – the AAH –, recognition of the status of disabled worker, the education allowance for the disabled child – the AEEH – or the inclusion mobility card – the CMI – where the disability is not likely to change favourably. This is a major development that we must collectively guarantee to people. In addition to the need for administrative simplification, it became unbearable to constantly refer some of our fellow citizens to their disability situation. This is why a new step was taken again on 1 January 2020, since since that date, the departmental houses of disabled people – CDMH – can, without the users making the request, transform one of the above-mentioned services into life rights, under the conditions of traditional granting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u4	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u5	Thus we are also given the opportunity to redo departmental houses of disabled people the place of accompaniment, a concept at the heart of their creation by the law of 2005, and this win-win approach must be constantly recalled. Fifteen years ago, the great law of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities was enacted, without which we would not be able to address the subject that brings us together. This law brings to light all the fundamentals of the full citizenship of persons with disabilities, in particular because, in addition to its fundamental affirmation of their full and complete rights, it has made it possible to set the ambition of specific support, as important as it is necessary, to accompany their projects and their choices of life. In this regard, we should remember the importance of disability compensation, which is undeniably an essential lever for their autonomy in all areas of their daily lives. Nearly 300,000 people, including more than 20,000 children, are now beneficiaries of the PCH, a benefit whose purpose is to support people's needs as closely as possible, based on an individualized and multidimensional assessment of the impact of disability in the major areas of daily life. Today, fifteen years after its foundation, the road is not over. As you know, we still need to continue and consolidate progress in the field of compensation. It is the guarantee of a society that gives everyone the ability to exercise their rights and choices fully. To that end, we need to continue to strengthen the effectiveness of this work, in conjunction with the departments. It is our collective responsibility, each and every one of us, to assure the disabled that their expertise will be heard and taken into account in the construction of compensation plans, guaranteeing that they are appropriate to their choices and aspirations. It is also our collective responsibility to ensure that applications are processed in a timely manner, for, as everyone knows, behind each case there is a history, there is a person, there are aspirations, desires and often suffering. We all know that, but it nevertheless deserves to be reminded that once again, collectively and in a responsible manner, we should think together about how to offer this guarantee of the control of the deadlines that we owe to our fellow citizens. Life rights are a lever. Finally, it is also our collective responsibility to have a requirement of fairness, throughout the territory, in access to rights, in the face of a disparity of situations that must challenge us. In addition, PCH needs to be mobilised to support the diversification of solutions for people. As such, the mutualization of the PCH allows for the development of new inclusive housing projects, and this is essential. The Prime Minister has entrusted Mr. Denis Piveteau and Mr. Jacques Wolfrom with the task of proposing an operational strategy for the deployment of this solution on a larger scale, which allows people to choose a home and a social life project, in order to lead a life like the others. The Government, which had committed itself to doing better, would therefore continue not only on the issues that I had mentioned but also on others. We are already looking forward to this opportunity to take a major step forward, thanks to the text before us. The fact that your Social Affairs Committee has kept to a version that is almost identical to that of the Senate shows that we are close to it. The bill we are discussing is directly inspired in its first articles by that of your colleague Philippe Berta, whom I really want to welcome for his commitment, which was adopted by your chamber on 17 May 2018. It also feeds on the initiative of the Senate, in particular the report "Rethinking disability financing to support inclusive society", prepared by Senator Philippe Mouille on behalf of his Social Affairs Committee. Today you are given the opportunity of new realizations. The work and debates of your Committee on Social Affairs, particularly thanks to Mrs Nathalie Elimas' report, have been particularly rich. If any questions have been raised, and I will come back to that, all of them here have been able to see the progress made by this text. Let me therefore turn to the bill in more detail. Article 1 deals with the removal of the age barrier at the age of 75. This measure was already included in your colleague Philippe Berta's bill, which you adopted. In its current wording, the Act penalizes persons with disabilities who have not found it useful to apply for PCH before the age of 75, but who are after that age in difficulty as a result of a change in their environment, such as the aging or death of the spouse who actually provided them with human assistance. I therefore welcome the consensus reached on this development, which should concern around 10,000 people. Article 2 proposes an evolution of the legislative framework governing disability compensation funds. Finally, it will allow us to open up the possibility of laying down, by regulation, a transparent and shared framework for the use of these funds, which will be the subject of consultation with the associations. Your Committee on Social Affairs has adopted an amendment by the rapporteur providing for a report to be submitted to Parliament which will enable everyone to judge its effectiveness. However, I do not deny the difficulties relating to the remainder, which will not be resolved overnight. I therefore hope that we can act on the very construction of the system in order to make it more effective in its foundations. This is one of the reasons why I announced with my colleague Agnès Buzyn, on the occasion of the Interministerial Committee on Disability of 3 December last, the launch of a mission on technical aids because they are important in the grounds for the request of the departmental funds, knowing that access to such aids is still too difficult and that the organisation of the device does not give sufficient consideration to their quality of use for the people. The mission is now under way. Dr. Philippe Denormandie is due to submit his proposals to us by the start of 2020. This is obviously a delicate subject, but it has been left out for too long, given its complexity, and we must tackle it. Article 3 aims to extend the right to life to the PCH in the event of a disability that is not likely to evolve favourably, and to align the durations of allocation of the elements of the PCH over a single period. As such, he participates in the movement, previously stated, which aims to simplify the lives of individuals and administrations. Of course, I'm glad. But here too, we will have to pay attention to the fact that the teams can take advantage of this measure in practice. Finally, section 4 of the proposed Act proposes the establishment of a strategic committee on two issues that may seem remote but of equal importance. The first concerns transport, which you are right to consider as a matter of importance. We want people to be able to regain their power to act and be actresses of their choice. Mobility is undeniably a condition of this project. I am committed to you today, as I have done before honourable senators, to bringing together all the stakeholders, both ordinary and specific law, in order to begin this work on which I have asked the administrations to propose a structure as multidimensional as they are. Senators have also chosen to enrich this committee with the dimension of disability compensation for children. There has been progress in analysing the difficulties on this subject, which I know, Madam rapporteur, is of great interest to you. As such, the clarification of the relationship between the education allowance of the disabled child and the PCH allocated to the children is a real subject. Mr Lenoir's recent report, on behalf of the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs, should allow us to deepen our options once the various possible scenarios have been outlined. It certainly takes time because the subject is serious and complex, but know that I am determined not to leave it behind. The commitment in the fall of 2019 of the strategy "Acting for the Caregivers", built with the contribution of associations and parliamentarians, and to which I attach great importance with Agnès Buzyn, has already allowed a breakthrough by the defiscalisation and the exemption of social contributions from the compensation aid attached to the PCH. Another will intervene soon, with the possibility of its cumulation with the RSA. Thus, we are blocking the exercise of the right of option between the PCH and the EEAH, and we are allowing families to exercise their rights in this area in a much more serene way. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mme Michèle de Vaucouleurs also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the year that begins will be a rich year for disability. This bill is a first translation. On February 11, the National Conference on Disability will be held under the auspices of the President of the Republic: it will be an important meeting with French and French people. And I want to say again how much you have in this ambition for people with disabilities. This bill is the result of a demanding and quality parliamentary work that I once again wanted to welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u6	Mrs Nathalie Elimas, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u7	The bill we are considering today aims to improve access to compensation for the consequences of disability. This text reminds us of another one since the National Assembly had adopted, on 17 May 2018, a similar bill on this subject, as part of a niche of the MODEM group. However, this proposal by our colleague Philippe Berta, whose work I wish to pay tribute to, has not been placed on the Orders of the Day of the Senate. This bill, which was passed by the Senate on first reading on 5 November last, nevertheless reflects the essence of the text that we adopted last year and enriches it on several points. The disability compensation benefit, referred to more briefly as "PCH", is the result of the Act of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities, which has substantially changed the policy for persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u8	The main thrust of this law is the recognition of the right to compensation for the consequences of disability through national solidarity. The PCH is the translation of this: it is an individualized benefit, awarded almost unconditionally of resources and allowing the additional costs of any kind related to disability to be covered. However, almost 15 years after the enactment of the 2005 Act, the original objectives of the Act have not been fully met. Persons with disabilities continue to experience difficulties, linked to the exclusion of some elderly disabled persons from the benefit of the PCH because of the maintenance of age barriers at 60 and 75 years, the permanence of high dependent remains – particularly in terms of transport or equipment – or the inadaptation of the PCH to the needs of children. The challenges remain, and the expectations of persons with disabilities, their families and the associations representing them remain strong. The bill we are looking at today is designed to correct some of the shortcomings of the 2005 Act through four articles. First, section 1 seeks to remove the age limit of 75 beyond which it is no longer possible to apply for the PCH. The age limit for solicitors is currently set at 60 years, but persons who met the PCH award criteria before the age of 60 may also apply for them, subject to applying for them before they reach the age of 75. The age limit is unfair, since it penalizes those who did not consider it useful to apply for PCH before the age of 75 but who, after the age of 75, find themselves in difficulty by a change in their environment, such as the disappearance of a caring relative. The disabled person can then only apply for the individualized autonomy allowance – the APA – which entitles them to a less complete treatment of compensation needs than the PCH. The removal of the 75-year-old age barrier therefore responds to a concern for equity, as well as to the increase in the life expectancy of the persons concerned. This measure will improve the right to compensation for approximately 8000 ageing disabled people, at a net cost estimated at around €33 million per year. It also invites us, of course, to question the relevance of the 60-year-old barrier. I know that some of my colleagues have tabled amendments on this subject, which have been declared inadmissible. Personally, I believe that the debate on the removal of this barrier should be opened. I now turn to article 2, which deals with the issue of the dependent remains of persons with disabilities and aims to overcome a legal stalemate linked to the imprecise provisions of the Act of 2005 concerning the operation of departmental disability compensation funds. The latter are responsible for providing extra-legal financial assistance to enable persons with disabilities to meet any compensation costs that may remain at their expense after intervention by the PCH. However, the section of the law on disability compensation funds is based on two contradictory logics. On the one hand, the wealth of funds is ensured by voluntary financing, which can be provided by different actors: the State, health insurance, family allowance funds, departments and regional councils – or rather, in this case, a regional council, that of Île-de-France. On the other hand, the law requires that the compensation costs remaining at the expense of the beneficiary of the PCH shall not exceed 10% of his net personal resources of taxes, "under conditions defined by decree". There is therefore a legal obligation, which must be implemented through voluntary funds. The inherent contradiction of this article has never allowed the publication of the implementing decree, therefore the effective entry into force of this provision relating to the remainder chargeable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u9	It would have been too beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u10	In the absence of a decree, the creation of the compensation funds took place in a disparate manner: each departmental council was able to decide both the publics eligible for the fund, the amounts and the types of aid awarded. This situation results in significant and unacceptable inequalities between departments. Moreover, in February 2016, the Council of State condemned the State for failing to comply with the reasonable period between the publication of the law and that of the implementing decree. Today it is necessary to break this legal impasse. In this context, Article 2 seeks to reconcile the obligation to reduce the remainder of the dependants of persons with disabilities with the resources available from the departmental compensation funds. This clarification of the legislative framework will enable the Government to issue an implementing decree and to harmonize in part the procedures for intervention of the departmental funds. In accordance with an amendment adopted in committee, Parliament will have to be kept informed of the publication of this decree, in particular of the development of the rest of the dependents for persons who have applied for a departmental disability compensation fund. We will propose improvements, if necessary. The purpose of Article 3 is to clarify the terms and conditions for the control and allocation of the PCH. As regards the first part, it enshrines at legislative level the role of the chairman of the departmental council in monitoring the use of aid paid under the PCH. Above all, it states that this control will now have to be exercised over a minimum period of six months.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u11	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u12	It won't always be very simple...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u13	This provision responds to a claim by associations representing persons with disabilities that the checks, as they are carried out in some departments on human assistance, are sometimes too rigid and do not take sufficient account of the changing needs of the beneficiaries of the PCH throughout the year. Through the second part of the article, on the modalities for allocating the PCH, it is proposed to reduce the administrative procedures of the beneficiaries in two ways: firstly, the duration of the allocation of the various aids would be harmonised; On the other hand, a right to life for PCH would be enshrined for persons whose disability is not likely to change favourably. These provisions are consistent with the simplification measures taken in the field of disability at the end of 2018. Finally, I come to the fourth and final article, which goes beyond the scope of the PCH. It provides for the creation of a strategic committee to propose adaptations to the right to compensation for disabilities that meet the specific needs of children, as well as changes in the modes of transport of persons with disabilities that ensure integrated management. It aims to address two issues identified in the work of the fifth national conference on disability – the CNH. One of the five projects undertaken by the CNH focuses on improving the care of the needs of children with disabilities – you know my commitment to this issue. When considering the bill to strengthen the treatment of paediatric cancers, of which I was the author, parliamentary work had highlighted the inadequacy of our social protection to the particular situations encountered by the parents of seriously ill children. The Minister of Solidarity and Health then committed herself to a special study by the IGAS, the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs, on the relationship between the EEAH and the daily parental attendance allowance – the AJPP – in order to simplify the system. In its report submitted last June, the IGAS recommends that "a new mapping of the benefits offered to families, allowing for accompanying the journeys of children with disabilities from birth to adulthood". We must now move forward on the subject. On the other hand, the movement of persons with disabilities, which are naturally essential to their integration into our society, is now hampered by high – if not very high – leftovers and by poorly legible care arrangements. Article 4 is also intended, through the creation of the Strategic Committee, to improve this situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I would simply say that, while this bill alone will not solve all the difficulties faced by persons with disabilities, it nevertheless brings its stone to the building with a view to improving access to compensation. I therefore invite you to adopt the text I have just presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u14	In the general debate, Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u15	The Act of 11 February 2005 established the principle of the right to compensation for disability for the persons concerned. The PCH, created by the same law, is at the heart of the mechanism to allow this compensation. It is an innovative and ambitious scheme, almost not subject to resource requirements, and has been beneficially replaced by the compensation allowance for third parties, which was limited to human aid. The PCH covers a wider scope and is better suited to disability-related expenses – whether they are human, technical or related to the development of a vehicle. It also allows for the purchase of a service animal. So she's better calibrated. However, this system is not without flaws: it takes insufficient account of the longer lifespan and the ageing of a growing part of the population, which also affects persons with disabilities. The purpose of this bill is, in section 1, to remove the age barrier of 75 years for access to the PCH. This is a real step forward, which we welcome, and which is only a catch-up of what the 2005 Act provided for. While our fellow citizens live longer, maintaining this age limit beyond which it was impossible to grant a PCH application for a disability that occurred before the age of 60 was not justified. It was important to adapt our law accordingly. We also believe that the clarification provided by Article 2 on the remainder is in the right direction. We hope that this article, while taking into account the resources of the departments, will allow the recipient to pay a further 10% of his net income from taxes. Moreover, it is a matter of overcoming a legal stalemate which has led to the formation of strong inequalities between departments in the determination of the rest of the burden. This article will enable harmonization to be initiated in the procedures for the intervention of the departmental funds. That being said, it is undeniable that we remain in the middle of the ford, and I understand the unease of some of my colleagues on this issue. The opening of this right is in fact conditional on the resources of the departments, whose finances are already very limited.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u16	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u17	In order to ensure a genuine effectiveness of the right to compensation, we are in favour of a contract between the State and the departments, along the lines of the one applicable to the care of unaccompanied minors. With regard to Article 3, we are of course in favour of the establishment of a right to life for the PCH in the event of irreversible disability. This would be the same as the allowance for adults with disabilities – since last year – or the compensation allowance for third persons. We can only subscribe to these measures, which facilitate and simplify the daily lives of the people concerned. Finally, we agree with the concerns expressed in Article 4. It plans to set up a strategic committee to address both the specific needs of children with disabilities and to propose new mobility solutions. Recent reports highlight the importance of a calibrated approach to child and adolescent disabilities and regret the complexity of existing benefits. However, we do not consider it necessary to create a new body for this purpose: nothing prevents us from now engaging in in-depth reflection on these issues within existing structures, such as the National Conference on Disability. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are convinced, like all Members present on these benches, of the need to act with voluntarism in favour of people with disabilities, for a more inclusive society. The IDU, Action and Independents Group therefore welcomes the consideration of the bill, which is a new step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u18	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u19	There was consensus on the need to improve access to disability compensation. While the creation of the PCH by the Act of 11 February 2005 was a major step forward, we are all aware of the continuing difficulties faced by those who request it. The assessment of the inadequacy of the criteria for obtaining the PCH to the evolution of society – in particular the ageing of the population – should encourage us to review and improve them. The bill we are considering today is, in principle, intended to meet this objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u20	In principle...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u21	Yet, despite the objectives of simplification and justice, the Libertés et territoires group approached it with serious reservations. Some measures are in the right direction – they have long been demanded by associations, persons with disabilities and caregivers. I am thinking in particular of the recognition of a right to life at the PCH if the disability is not likely to change, or of the abolition of the age requirement of 75 years to apply for this benefit, provided that the conditions for receiving it were fulfilled before the age of 60. These two provisions, although modest, improve the system. On the other hand, while Article 4 has the merit of raising the important question of transport care for persons with disabilities, it does not remedy the complexity of the current system, based on a blurred division between health insurance and departments. I now turn to Article 2, the effects of which seem to us to be particularly dangerous. It provides that the action of the departmental compensation funds can only be exercised within the limits of their available funding – this because the State has never taken the decree provided for in the article concerned...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u23	... and has, moreover, been sentenced by the Council of State to a penalty payment of EUR 100 per day. This is tantamount to making compliance with the 10 per cent of the remainder dependent on the residual budget of the departments, at the risk of accentuating the territorial inequalities which the bill purports to reduce. We do not understand how harmonization of practices between departments will be ensured, as participation in funding of funds remains voluntary. The question arises all the more in a context where the resources of the departments are very constrained. In other words, this provision simply provides for an end to the rest of the burden and will therefore have the effect of fundamentally limiting people's access to the technical aids essential for their autonomy. Our Freedom and Territory Group therefore calls for the deletion of this article. Finally, a number of possible improvements, although essential, are unfortunately not addressed in the bill. Some were discussed at the last national conference on disability. I am thinking above all of the age barrier linked to the recognition of disability, set at 60 years. Currently, PCH is conditional upon the occurrence of a disability before the age of 60. Otherwise, dependents are only eligible for ABS. However, the two benefits are of a different nature and amount. What is more, from the outset, as you readily acknowledge in your report, Madam rapporteur, and as you have pointed out in your speech, this arrangement was conceived as provisional and was to disappear within five years. Fifteen years later, no text was adopted to put an end to it. Unfortunately, the amendments we have tabled have been declared inadmissible on the grounds that they are suitable for Article 40 of the Constitution, which prevents us from discussing them in the House. That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u25	Maintaining the age barrier at age 60 is a source of unfair treatment and injustice because, with equal disability and compensation needs, PCH assistance plans are far more important than the APA. Let us hope that, in the next law on old age and autonomy, the removal of the age barrier will be effective. This would be a real measure of social justice. Our group finally wonders if it was appropriate to put the bill on our agenda today, while the next national conference on disability will be held on February 11, 2020...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u26	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u27	... and that one of the objectives of the work carried out within this framework is precisely to improve the conditions for granting the PCH. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] The Liberties and Territories Group therefore remains very concerned about the consequences of Article 2 of the proposed law. As it stands, we will wait for the outcome of the debate to take a decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u28	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u29	The disability compensation benefit is intended to compensate for the loss of autonomy. The disability experienced in the body and in the head depends closely on the way in which it is cared for by society. It is considerably reduced when dedicated logistical means are put in place to accompany the person with a disability. This includes parking or transport facilities, accommodation adaptations, the purchase of a wheelchair or animal welfare. The role of public authorities is precisely to compensate for the loss of autonomy by offering at least support for the material needs of everyday life. Today, this responsibility lies primarily with the departments, which are responsible for calculating the rest of the family's liabilities, for linking up with the health insurance and the CAF, the Family Allowance Fund, and for financing what the State does not provide. On the benches of our assembly, many have wished the end of the departments. Instead of asphyxiating them, it would be better to give them more money and respect their financial autonomy. The departments are responsible for 70 per cent of the expenditure related to the payment of the PCH. With €608 million in state funding for an average expenditure of €2 billion, the hole is significant. While the challenge of decentralization is commendable, the lack of resources is reprehensible. In the same vein, the centralisation in Lille of the management of parking cards for persons with disabilities has transformed this service into a technocratic superstructure. In my constituency, I regularly receive complaints about the processing time of applications, which prevents some administered people from obtaining their cards in time and makes them victims of the administrative reorganization. It is not normal for a person who requests the renewal of his card three months before its end to find a solution for several weeks or even months, because the service does not respond to him. The agents, whom I have been able to contact, have nothing to do with it. It is the means that are lacking. The PCH is necessary, but it is imperfect and it greatly affects its effectiveness. I will give only a few examples: the processing of applications may vary from three to twelve months, while the disability is immediately experienced by those who are victims of it; the age criterion for attribution of the PCH to 60 does not correspond to the reality of disability situations, which often occur without warning; the benefit has not been increased since 2006, i.e. almost 15 years, at constant cost, while inflation follows its course; As for the price of products and materials intended to compensate for the often very high handicap, it has also increased, which disconnects the aid from the costs incurred by the households concerned. This very short bill – it is composed of four articles – aims to make corrections, particularly as regards the funding burden on the departments, but it raises questions. Thus, article 1 removes the age requirement of 60, the age before which it is possible to apply for the payment of the PCH, but it does not go back to the necessary determination of the disability before 60, which is contrary to article 13 of the Act of 11 February 2005 providing for the abolition of the age requirement by 2010. For this reason, the group La France insoumée will abstain on this article. More broadly, after the ELAN Act – which sets out changes in housing, development and digital technology – which reduces the number of housing units to 10 per cent that must be accessible to PMRs, people with reduced mobility, this law is a timid catch-up – an opportunity for the Government and the parliamentary majority to become aware without actually acting on the substance. Every day, as you know, we denounce this ELAN law. How can we justify by law the impossibility of some of our fellow citizens having access to shops, public services and housing? One cannot rely solely on the goodwill of all the landowners: it is enough for a gallant sheep, a sleeper, a selfish owner to create an injustice between the able-bodied and the hard-working. Disability is not a fatality, but it is a possibility for everyone. You, me, every Frenchman and every Frenchman risk turning into a handicap every day. The least we can do is be able to rely on the state. Finally, this law aims to give good conscience. In fact, it will further increase the pressure experienced by the departments and the difficulties experienced by the political interlocutors in direct contact with our fellow citizens. As legislators, we cannot be satisfied with this situation. Because we do not think that local and regional authorities will again bear the burden that the state does not want to bear, because we will not digest the social backwardness that you have carried out with the ELAN law, the group La France insoumise will not participate in the vote on the bill. On the other hand, we are calling for a comprehensive national law to ensure that the State is financially responsive to the needs of local and regional authorities and to ensure accessibility for all persons with disabilities. France must be a united and truly inclusive Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u30	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u31	To find yourself in a situation of disability is to encounter in his daily life additional obstacles, it is to need help, equipment, facilities. All this is a cost. This is where the disability compensation benefit, which is paid by the departments, takes care of these needs. It is an essential right, which must be covered by national solidarity and which deserves real improvement. A recent IGAS report states that "the more severe the disability, the lower the income and the higher the level of poverty". The income of persons with disabilities is 1.4 times lower than the average. There is therefore an urgent need for action to improve their living conditions, particularly in addressing the needs directly related to disability. It is proposed to remove the 75-year-old barrier beyond which it is no longer possible to apply for PCH. Indeed, how can one explain that one is prevented from accessing it at the time when one can need it most? According to the 2005 Act, the age test was to be abolished by 2010. Therefore, the 60-year barrier after which the first application can no longer be made should also be removed. It is all the more incomprehensible that this benefit has no reason not to be universal. Why let injustice and untenable situations persist? Since 2006, the amount of the benefit has decreased sharply – by around 250 euros per month – as the ceilings have not changed. Moreover, the scope of the compensation is too narrow and so much so that it can induce a residual burden which is a real obstacle to the implementation of the aid plans. Shouldn't the remainder be the rule for certain essential benefits when a diagnosis and aid plan are drawn up? To correct the shortcomings of the PCH, departmental compensation funds have been created, a kind of palliation whose raison d'être is to reduce the remainder's share by keeping it below 10% of net personal income taxes. However, this does not constitute a real right for individuals and, since the resources of these funds are not clearly established, the text makes it obscurely clear that this right is operational only within the limits of rates and amounts. The implementing decree was therefore not published, hence a reminder to the order of the Council of State in 2016. The formula proposed here, within the limits of the financing of the departmental compensation fund, does not come out of this rut. Beyond the disparities between departments, how can we imagine that, in the same department, some of our fellow citizens can see their remainder so contained and limited – while that would not be the case for others – because the fund would have reached the end of the funding? It takes sufficient and long-term resources to meet all the demands and it is not in our mind to create new burdens for departments without giving them the corresponding resources,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u32	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u33	... at a time when local authorities are being strangled by the budgetary austerity decided jointly in Paris and Brussels. In the end, it is indeed a modernization and upgrading of the PCH that seems to have to be put on the agenda. The text also provides for an improvement in the procedure for awarding the PCH, with the introduction of automatic entitlement to benefits where disability is not likely to evolve favourably. This provision goes in the right direction, saving beneficiaries unnecessary and sometimes vexatious steps. We are also proposing to reformulate the principles of effectiveness controls. Would it not be better to focus on approaches that would help people to implement their aid plan in the best possible conditions, since their need has been clearly established? The proposed law states that monitoring must cover a reference period of at least six months. Time must be allowed for aid plans to be put in place so that they can be judged. The APF – the Association des paralysées de France –, for example, suggested a period of one year, which would no doubt make it possible to have a fairer vision. It is stated that this control can be exercised only on the sums actually paid and it should be made clear that it is not a question of checking the hours, but of the correct destination of the aid granted. By the way, I would like to point out that the remuneration of human aid is a subject on which we should look seriously. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] The bill is not without good intentions, but – and we know the constraints – it remains insufficient. Some leads have been put forward by the associations and I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to their commitment. This text has at least the merit of reminding us of the flaws of national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u34	Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u35	Abolition of the 75-year-old age barrier, creation of a right to life, facilitated payment arrangements, remains at the expense of less than 10%: these are some of the advances, much expected by associations and persons with disabilities, in this bill on the PCH. Almost fifteen years ago, the founding law of 11 February 2005 on equal rights and opportunities for persons with disabilities laid down the main principles of disability policy and introduced disability compensation. The Government and the majority fully reflect the spirit of the Act, since the inclusion of persons with disabilities is a priority of the quinquennium. We are aware that there is still a long way to go, but we must fight together to improve the daily lives of thousands of people with disabilities and their loved ones. The Group of the European People's Party naturally welcomes this bill, which we wish to see adopted beyond the political divides, and which contains concrete and much-anticipated answers to known failures of the PCH. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome my colleague Philippe Berta, the author of a bill in 2018 that has largely inspired the one we are considering today. Article 1 first proposes the removal of the 75-year-old age barrier beyond which it is now impossible for persons with disabilities who have declared themselves to be disabled before the age of 60 to apply for the PCH. We are very much in favour of that. To better understand the value of this measure, let us give the example of a person who, at age 57, is a victim of an accident leading to the occurrence of a disability and who would be assisted for ten, fifteen, or even twenty years by his spouse without applying for the PCH. It seems consistent that, in the event of a change of situation – for example the disappearance of his spouse – this person has the right to benefit from the PCH without age limit. Some in this House would like to go further: to push the 60- to 65-year-old barrier, or even to lift that limit beyond which it is in principle no longer possible to access the PCH. The question is legitimate. Indeed, the problem of the loss of autonomy of older persons with disabilities cannot be raised without opening the debate on the articulation of the PCH with the APA. For our part, we wish to include the issue of this development in the debate that will take place during the consideration of the bill on old age and autonomy. In addition, we welcome the welcome clarification of the funding mechanism for departmental compensation funds. These were created by the 2005 Act, but the implementing decree never came into being. Under section 2, the costs to beneficiaries will not exceed 10% of their net personal income tax resources. We will therefore pay attention to the publication of the implementing decree which will bring more territorial convergence in practice. Finally, we are particularly proud of the creation, provided for in Article 3, of a right to life for persons whose disability cannot progress in a favourable way. This is fully in line with the Government's commitment to simplify the daily lives of persons with disabilities and to facilitate the work of the CDMH. However, the allocation of the PCH for life must not prejudice the accompanying and advisory actions carried out by the CDMH. The group will defend an amendment to that effect. The question of technical and human assistance, including support for parenting, communication and household work, was raised. On this point, Philippe Denormandie has produced a report that includes an assessment and recommendations that will enable us to respond as closely as possible to the needs of people with disabilities. Finally, there are gaps in our system with respect to two issues addressed in article 4: transport of persons with disabilities and compensation for children's specific needs. We are therefore in favour of establishing a committee that can change the situation. As far as the first question is concerned, we will be defending an amendment that will allow all types of transport to be considered. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs applauds]] I repeat: the Group of the European People's Party on the move is very pleased with the progress made in this bill, which we will be voting for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u36	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u37	Today, our Assembly is debating a bill that has already been passed by the Senate. I would like to point out in the preamble that our group, and more generally the right, has always been at the meeting of disability-related issues that affect many of our fellow citizens. During the quinquennium of Jacques Chirac, the Government had passed on 11 February 2005 a law on equal rights and opportunities, participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities, which allowed the creation of the PCH by reforming the previous provisions on the participation and citizenship of persons with disabilities. In 2015, 335,000 people benefited from this benefit – the most recent figure we had – which is 7% more than in 2014. Article 11 of the 2005 Act states: "A person with a disability has the right to compensation for the consequences of his or her disability regardless of the origin and nature of his or her disability, age or way of life. This compensation is to meet its needs. The article states that "compensation needs are included in a plan developed in consideration of the needs and aspirations of the person with disabilities as expressed in his or her life project." We must ask ourselves about the application of this law, 15 years after its promulgation. We note that the majority of the objectives of the text have not been achieved. Persons with disabilities continue to face three types of constraints that this bill seeks to alleviate. First, some older persons with disabilities remain excluded from the benefit of the PCH because of the maintenance of age barriers at 60 and 75 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u39	Second, the leftovers remain high, especially in terms of transport or equipment. In addition, the provision of compensation is inadequate for the needs of children. We had to work on these three major challenges. In view of the multiple complexity of access to this aid, it was necessary, and even imperative, to change the terms and conditions of its payment. It is equally urgent to simplify the legal framework for the allocation of this aid, to clarify the conditions for its payment and to remove the constraints faced by the departmental councils which are – as you know – the main financiers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u40	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u41	In order to improve and streamline the system, this proposal, made by our colleague Senator Philippe Mouille, aims to reform the provisions of the 2005 Act – which has already been said, but I repeat these words in my own account – on the one hand, by removing the age limit of 75 years to apply for the PCH and, on the other hand, as Article 2, which is important, by reducing the obligation on the CDMH to pay financial assistance to persons with disabilities from the departmental disability compensation fund, the FDCH, in order to cover most of the expenses incurred by them after deduction of the compensation benefit. The chairman of the departmental council may only request compliance checks on the use of the PCH by beneficiaries if it has been paid for at least six continuous months. Finally, in order to consolidate the system as a whole, the Act provides for the establishment of a strategic committee with the Minister for Persons with Disabilities. This committee will develop and propose solutions for their modes of transport to ensure their logistical and financial management. If we need to reflect on many more progress, and translate it into action, in order to make it possible for all our citizens to be better included, I would like to stress that such measures must always draw the attention of the legislator, whatever its place on the benches of this House. For my part, I commend to you the contributions made during the parliamentary work, which have helped to improve the current system. The challenges we must address remain multiple and the expectations of people with disabilities, their families and the associations that support them remain high. In conclusion, I note that an Order in Council will need to clarify the manner in which the current situation is to be resolved. I hope that it will be published as soon as possible to allow us to move forward with this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u42	We have been waiting 15 years for this publication!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u43	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] As a result of these comments, the Republican Group supports the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u44	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u45	The bill under discussion is very much based on that of our colleague Philippe Berta, who was unanimously adopted by the Assembly in May 2018 as part of the day reserved for our group. Although the text was not finally placed on the Senate's agenda, its main measures were included in another proposal by the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Upper House, Alain Milon. It is therefore this version that we are going to debate today. As the rapporteur pointed out, this bill brings significant progress to one of the emblematic features of the law of 11 February 2005: the PCH. Indeed, while this benefit has been relevant for 15 years, it requires certain adjustments requested by persons with disabilities and by the associations that defend them. Thus, the first article takes up Philippe Berta's flagship provision of removing the 75-year-old age barrier for access to the PCH. To date, this limit prevents a person from claiming this benefit, even though he or she met his or her eligibility criteria before the age of 60. This is a measure of common sense, since it puts an end to an injustice suffered by those who did not consider it useful to apply for the PCH before the age of 75 and who may find themselves in difficulty, once that age has reached, because of hazards of life. On the other hand, the increase in life expectancy in our country reinforces the consistency of this provision. Such a measure is therefore necessary and expected by institutional actors, associations and the main stakeholders: our citizens with disabilities. Moreover, as our rapporteur has explained, its cost, of the order of EUR 30 million, is largely bearable. It is therefore necessary to take this step now so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. Article 2 is intended to clarify the legislative provisions relating to departmental disability compensation funds. It states in the law that the compensation costs may not exceed 10 per cent of the net personal income tax resources of persons with disabilities within the limits of the financing of each fund. This goes further than the experiment proposed by Philippe Berta, but the spirit is identical. With the adoption of this mechanism, it will be the responsibility of the Government to issue the necessary implementing decree to harmonize the modalities for the intervention of these funds. If this measure is to bring about a convergence of the right to compensation by the funds, this will not solve the problem of financial disparities between departments. Madam Secretary of State, what solutions do you envisage to address the risk of unequal treatment according to the territories? We agree with the spirit of Article 3, which develops a range of mechanisms to improve the allocation and control of PCH. First of all, it enshrines in the law the role of the presidents of departmental councils in the control of the funds intended for the allocation of the PCH, a logical measure since the departments are the indispensable relays for the deployment of disability policy in the territories. Furthermore, we fully support the simplification of the beneficiary's approach by harmonising the duration of the allocation of the different types of aid covered by the PCH. Everyone knows the course of the combatant that can represent all the administrative formalities to be carried out for people with disabilities. We particularly support the creation of a right to life for this benefit concerning the most severe handicaps, for which improvement is not possible. Finally, article 4 deals with two crucial and still pending issues: the integrated management of the transport of persons with disabilities and the adaptation of the right to compensation for disabilities for children. The establishment of a strategic committee to address these problems is an interesting proposal. However, could not the existing bodies, such as the National Disability Council or the National Disability Conference, prove to be just as effective? The establishment of a strategic committee to propose solutions is an interesting proposal. However, could not existing bodies, such as the National Disability Council or the National Disability Conference, prove to be just as effective? [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will support the whole of this relevant, coherent and fair bill. It is an additional step towards building a more inclusive society.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u46	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u47	On November 5, the Senate unanimously adopted, at first reading, the bill by Senator Alain Milon of the Republican Group to improve access to disability compensation. It aims to remove one of the age limits in force, to create a right to life to the benefit of compensation for disability, to relax its methods of payment, and finally to clarify things and to clarify the costs related to the remainder of the liability – it allows us to also look at the departmental funds for compensation for disability. The disability compensation benefit currently benefits more than 284,000 people, according to the rapporteur of the text in the Senate, Mr Philippe Mouille, member of the group The Republicans, decidedly at the forefront on this very important issue...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u49	It benefits 284,000 people, I said, at an overall cost of 1.9 billion euros. Human aid accounts for the majority of the amounts granted, followed by technical aids, accommodation or vehicle improvements, or transport costs. As stated in the explanatory memorandum of the Senate bill, "access to the PCH for people with disabilities is now greatly complicated by the plurality of its objectives, the conditions for its opening up and the constraints faced by its principal financiers, the departmental councils". Article 1 of the text removes the age barrier, currently 75 years, beyond which it is no longer possible to apply for PCH, for any person whose disability has occurred before the age of 60. Article 2 provides for clarification of the arrangements for departmental disability compensation funds. Article 3 reinforces the supervisory prerogatives of the chairman of the departmental council. Article 4 has a twofold objective: to monitor children and to establish a strategic committee. Some criticisms have been made. The association Coordination handicap et autonomie – CHA – denounces, in a press release of 5 November 2019, "a challenge to the right to compensation for disability". She stressed that "the bill, which was not submitted for advice to the National Advisory Council for Persons with Disabilities (CNCPH), dramatically called into question the right to compensation for disability". In particular, she denounces article 2 of the text, which, in her view, "is aimed at reducing the scope of departmental disability compensation funds". While these funds had been created by the 2005 law so that persons with disabilities do not have to finance a remainder of their resources in excess of 10% of their resources, the association considers that the proposed law reduces their intervention according to "the limit of the financing of the departmental compensation fund". The association also considers that the removal of the age limit of 75 "is not sufficient", since the age barrier of 60 was maintained. [[Smile]] I referred to the 2005 law establishing departmental disability compensation funds, but the association recalls that for fourteen years, "the successive governments have never published the decree that would have made it possible to apply the article" in question. That is probably the reason why all these governments have lost the elections. The association adds: "Each departmental fund has therefore worked with its own rules and according to the goodwill of its contributors: state, department, other territorial authorities, SPAC, CAF, etc. » The State has already been convicted twice for not publishing the decree. The purpose of this bill is, in fact, to restrict the scope of the law in the light of current practices and thus to avoid a new condemnation of the State. For all these reasons, I will vote enthusiastically for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u50	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u51	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u52	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u53	Article 1 removes the age barrier of 75 years, beyond which the benefit of the disability compensatory benefit is no longer available for a person whose disability was declared before the age of 60. It is a matter of putting an end to an administrative rule that is considered absurd, inappropriate to the evolution of our society. As the increase in life expectancy is not necessarily linked to a healthy life, France must adapt its regulations accordingly. For people with disabilities, this is all the more true because the complexity of administrative procedures related to their disability still too often prevents access to benefits such as PCH at an advanced age. The 75-year-old barrier prevents 7,500 to 10,000 people from receiving this benefit. A distinction is therefore made between persons with disabilities on the basis of a criterion which is not related to disability but to age, which is inconsistent. This is why the removal of this limitation was regularly recommended, in particular by the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs in 2011 or 2016. It is mostly expected by people with disabilities themselves. Indeed, telling a person that he or she can no longer receive a benefit because he or she takes it too late, while his or her disability has been declared for several years, is completely incomprehensible. Sometimes the disability is declared before the age of 60, but the disabled person has not wanted to use the PCH, often for personal reasons. In this case, we cannot punish her by preventing her from having access a few years later. Account must be taken of the changing environment, such as the death of the assisting spouse or the deterioration of age-related living conditions. Complex administrative rules, such as this one, prevent us from integrating some people with disabilities. The 75-year-old barrier can no longer hold in a society that is now claimed to be inclusive. Article 1 therefore puts an end to discrimination by giving everyone equal access to a benefit. This is a measure of social justice based on the real living conditions of the disabled person. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] While several laws have made it possible to formally extend the rights of persons with disabilities in recent years, it was time to translate that will into practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u54	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u55	My point is not directly related to Article 2, but I am counting on the indulgence of the President. February 2005 saw both the creation of the PCH and the legal definition of mental disability, thirty years behind our partners. In December 2019, the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities presented six new government priorities for 2020 as part of the third interdepartmental committee on disability. One of these ambitions is to ensure better access to PCH to take into account the specific needs of people with mental disorders. Today, the number of these people who benefit from it is very small. A 2017 decree has refined the eligibility criteria for the PCH and a support guide from the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy is likely to help the departmental houses of people with disabilities in decision-making. It's still not enough. UNAFAM, the National Union of Families and Friends of Mentally Ill and/or Impaired Persons, and FNAPSY, the National Federation of User Associations in Psychiatry, have reminded us that the lack of knowledge of shrinkage and its characteristics, including its instability, always discourages families and individuals from applying for PCH. I have no doubt that the Denormandie-Talbot report, referred to by my colleague Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel, should allow improvements in this area so as not to leave people with mental disabilities behind again and again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u56	Madam Member, those who have written on an article must in principle speak about it, but in view of the rather consensual atmosphere that characterizes our debates, you have benefited from my indulgence. I call Mrs Jeanine Dubie to support Amendment No. 3, which is intended to delete Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u57	Why delete Article 2? There's a first problem. The reading of the bill gives the impression that, thanks to Article 2, Article L. 146-5 of the Code of Social Action and Families is the subject of a new wording: this is not true! In fact, the bill merely adds at the beginning of the current wording the following words: "Within the limits of the financing of the departmental compensation fund,". In other words, it is not a matter of improving the situation, but of limiting the benefit of a device by introducing a restriction. I note a second problem in Article 2 II, which states that "the Government shall submit to Parliament a report on the implementation of the Decree, referred to in the second paragraph of Article L. 146-5 of the Code of Social Action and Families, within 18 months of its publication". Do you realize how absurd it is for the legislator to ask for a report within 18 months on the implementation of a decree that has been waiting for more than 15 years? It is still not published; it will not be implemented. I have seen your amendment, Madam rapporteur, and I know your seriousness, but I do not understand how you can accept such things!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u58	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u59	Unfavorable opinion. Mrs Dubié, the Article 2 which you are asking for to be deleted provides a legal clarification which will allow finally the implementing decree which has not been published, which has been a blockage until now. I hear your questions and fears. You are right to recall that the 2005 Act established the right of PCH beneficiaries not to spend more than 10% of their net personal income tax resources in compensation costs. However, this right is in fact constrained by the limited financial capacity of departmental disability compensation funds. I agree that it would have been preferable for these funds to have guaranteed resources; That is one point on which we could work with the Government. But today, our goal is to break the legal deadlock that we have been in since 2005 by finally making possible the publication of an implementing decree. This decree will make it possible to harmonise the practices of the departmental funds at a minimum and to reduce the disparities which are now observed between the departments in the treatment of the costs of compensation for disability, which have been repeatedly denounced in the Committee on Social Affairs. It will be up to the funds to specify their eligibility criteria in order to best guarantee the right of beneficiaries to have the rest borne by 10% of their net personal income tax resources. I come back to the amendment on the evaluation report adopted in the Committee on Social Affairs. I believe that we will be able to obtain this assessment within the time limit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u60	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u61	I would like to recall that the reduction of the remaining dependants of persons with disabilities is a priority of the Government. It is necessary to make effective the provisions relating to departmental disability compensation funds which are not applicable to date because of contradictions between the capping of the rest of the funds and the voluntary nature of the abundance of the funds. Article 2 of the proposed law allows this impasse to be overcome by maintaining the voluntary nature of its funding by the various stakeholders, to which the Government is committed in the context of its constructive relationship with local and regional authorities. Finally, it paves the way for a reduction of the remainder for disabled people, within the resources of the departmental compensation fund. The deletion of this article would be tantamount to a reversal of the right of persons with disabilities, since the provision in force since 2005 is in fact inapplicable. I would like to reassure you of my commitment to release the decree in less than six months, so that we can then assess it in the spirit recalled by the rapporteur. As such, the Government is against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u62	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u63	The IUD, Action and Independent Group will vote against the amendment. We all agree, Madam Secretary of State, to reduce the remaining burden on persons with disabilities; My colleague Dubie is, too. I repeat my group's proposal to act on the problem of territorial inequalities. Indeed, not all departments treat the issue in the same way, because they do not all have the same means. Perhaps consideration should be given to a contract between the State and the departments, which would reassure some, on the model of what has been done for the management of unaccompanied minors, the MNA. This solution is not necessarily satisfactory, but it allows at least to engrave in the marble the fact that the State and the departments are dealing with this problem together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u64	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u65	I won't insist any more. Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, I have a great deal of respect for you, but you will not make me believe that the decree you are coming out of can improve the situation. Indeed, you will limit the financing of the departmental fund, to the risk that some people will not be able to collect the money. If the fund's contributors do not finance it enough, we must create mechanisms that force them to do so: it is aberrant to punish the beneficiaries!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u66	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u67	One word, Madam Secretary of State, to remind us of our debates in committee, even if you are aware of it. The Gordian node of the bill is Article 2, in particular the decree. I understand our colleague's attitude, even if I will not vote for the amendment because the text must be put forward. What has been said in committee and in committee imposes on you a form of obligation of result.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u68	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u69	Otherwise, the entire spirit and will of the bill would lapse. We will therefore look at the content of the decree with a careful and demanding eye.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u70	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u71	In the preamble, I would like to point out that the reform of the Rules of Procedure, which limits the term to one speaker per group for each article and for the general discussion, can paradoxically lead, as has just been the case, to statements which do not necessarily relate to the article concerned. This is potentially problematic, both in this discussion and in the future. As far as the text before us is concerned, the question is whether or not there is a right. Here there is a right of half, an uncertain right: indeed, the article indicates that this right is valid within the limits of the possibilities of the fund. So we're doing a repair that we know it won't hold. The proposal you make does not solve the contradiction you have pointed out. As the problem is more global, there is a need for reform on a different scale. You're just rewording what was wrong. The wording is a little better, but the problem remains.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u72	One point of procedure: the reform of the Rules of Procedure limits the term to one speaker per group. Mrs Wonner did not give me time to give her permission to speak, even though her group had already intervened; This statement is quite exceptional and must not be repeated, at the risk of a proliferation of breaches of the rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u73	Amendment No 9 by Mrs Nathalie Elimas is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u74	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u75	The La République en marche group welcomes the objective of this bill: to make improvements to the provision of compensation for disability. Beyond the possibility to benefit from the PCH if the person concerned is still active, or from the APA if he is no longer active, we pay attention to the coherence of departmental policies in the management of financing and to the publication of decrees aimed at reducing heterogeneity between departmental funds. As regards the practical arrangements for the payment of the PCH, it is necessary to simplify the aid and make it more legible, and to support the most fragile. Article 3 contains two advances which we strongly support: the right to life at the PCH where disability is not likely to evolve favourably and the harmonisation of award periods with the creation of a single duration for the different types of assistance covered by the benefit. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The department will also be able to improve the monitoring of the effectiveness of the use of PCH by beneficiaries, with controls now being carried out over reference periods and not on a monthly basis, as is the case today. It is also a measure that we support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u76	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u77	I explained in the general discussion my concern: to open the debate on how the public service can accompany the implementation of the aid plans. Control is done a priori: we examine the situation, we make a diagnosis and we determine the help the person needs; Then, of course, this aid plan must be implemented. Article 3 proposes an effectiveness check, which is designed to verify that the person has used the aid allocated to him in the prescribed manner. In everyday life, however, there are sometimes obstacles to the proper implementation of the aid plan. Public intervention must be carried out more in a spirit of accompaniment to the implementation of the aid plan than in a spirit of control aimed at establishing the absence of fraud, which is all the more difficult as repayments are made on invoice. For the rest, it is obviously necessary to clarify what is being controlled and to provide for a wider time range. Finally, with regard to the control of hours, the rate at which they are actually paid does not always correspond to the rate which is practised – rightly – by a number of organizations, in particular because their staff have seniority. This subject also deserves further study.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u79	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u80	Dear colleague, you propose to delete paragraph 5 of Article 3, which deals with the monitoring of the effectiveness of the PCH by the departmental council. First of all, know that I share your conviction: we need to develop a more caring approach and trust the beneficiaries of the PCH. But you know the adage: trust does not exclude control. The checks you mentioned are now governed by a decree of 2005 according to which the president of the departmental council "may at any time carry out or cause to be carried out an on-the-spot or on-the-spot check to verify whether the conditions for the award of the compensation benefit are or remain satisfied or whether the beneficiary of this benefit has dedicated this benefit to the compensation of the expenses for which it was awarded". The deletion of paragraph 5 you are proposing would in fact lead to a status quo and would not improve the way in which controls are carried out. Article 3, which has been said several times in the general discussion, aims to make controls more flexible, since they must now cover a minimum period of six months, in order to take better account of the variation in needs – I am thinking in particular of human aid. It responds to the criticisms made by associations representing persons with disabilities, who consider that the checks carried out by departmental councils are often too strict or even too tamillons. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u81	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u82	Mr Dharréville, I know your commitment to the notions of fairness and support for people with disabilities. You're right: the whole stake is to properly assess needs and provide the right compensation. However, it is still necessary for departments to be able to carry out checks. This is the whole chain that we want to improve: if we have to keep paragraph 5 in order to leave control in the hands of the departments, which – as you all recalled – mainly finance the PCH, then we will have to work on the modalities of evaluation and support. Accompaniment is the key word: accompanying the definition of the compensation project and accompanying its execution. For the time being, however, let us leave the possibility of control to the departments. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u83	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u84	First of all, I would like to stress the importance of the right to life at the PCH which Article 3 opens to people whose disability cannot evolve favourably. This is a great step forward, because this right facilitates the already very difficult daily life of people with a heavy disability. In concrete terms, with the creation of the right to life, they will no longer be obliged to renew their application to the CDMH. This means less red tape, less paperwork for the beneficiaries of this service: we welcome it. [[Monique Limon and Michèle Peyron applaud]] However, the beneficiaries of this right to life must remain accompanied by the CDMH. The La République en marche group is therefore proposing an amendment which aims to guarantee the support and advice of the CDMH to these people throughout their lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u85	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u86	Mrs Fontaine-Domeizel, thank you for having praised the creation of this right to life at the PCH in the context of this text. Your amendment aims to clarify that persons with disabilities who now enjoy this right may continue to be accompanied by the CDMH. The Act of 2005 gave them the task of welcoming, informing, accompanying and advising persons with disabilities and their families. I would like to reassure you that these missions will not be challenged by the right to life at PCH. The CDMH will continue to carry out their missions, which I have just listed, in the same way. Your request is therefore satisfied and I propose that you withdraw your amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u87	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u88	Here is my deep conviction: it is not the granting of the right to life that will change the daily lives of people with disabilities, but the implementation of the solutions that can be proposed to them. The right to life is a win-win mechanism that will ease the work of the CDMH teams, which will therefore be able to better advise and support beneficiaries in the implementation of aid plans. At the moment, I am making a tour of France of the CDMH – I am holding permanent citizens – and accompaniment is the primary mission that I ask them to ensure. As soon as yesterday, I was at the MDHC in Paris, where I met about twenty families who explained to me that their needs were changing over the course of life. I then told the teams that they had many other ways to support families: to inform them about improvements in their rights, which are constantly changing, and above all to offer them new solutions. The CDMH will become solution assemblers; This is what we are working with all 102 CDMHs in our country. Don't worry: the support and implementation of aid plans is the essential mission that we entrust to the CDMH. They will have to go to the beneficiaries, take the families by hand so that the aid plans are finally accompanied. I ask you to withdraw your amendment, because accompanying is really the DNA of the coming CDMHs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u90	Amendments Nos 8 and 11 by Mrs Nathalie Elimas are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u91	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u92	In my previous speech, I referred to the request made in this amendment: we want the ex post checks carried out by the paying departments of the PCH human aid departments to be carried out on the effectiveness of expenditure, not on the part of the hours allocated as is currently the case. There is sometimes a gap between the PCH human aid tariff, particularly in the context of the direct employment modality, and the actual cost of the intervention borne by the person. In this way, beneficiaries of the benefit can be claimed unfairly while they have actually spent the sum for the shares for which it was allocated, even if the hourly cost was not the amount originally foreseen. It is a source of difficulty for recipients of the benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u93	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u94	Mr President, you are right to draw our attention to this important issue. It is true that some departmental councils monitor the use of the resources allocated under the PCH according to the hourly volume defined in the aid plan. However, several factors may lead PCH beneficiaries to consume fewer hours of human aid than the hourly volume provided for in the plan, in particular where there is a discrepancy between human aid tariffs and the prices charged to persons with disabilities. Such a situation occurs, for example, in the case of direct employment of a home helper, or when it is difficult to recruit such help because the person's needs involve night or weekend interventions. When checks are carried out on the basis of the hourly volume of the aid plan, they can then generate significant industries that put the beneficiaries of the PCH in financial difficulty. Article 3 is drafted in such a way as to clarify this point. It is stated that the controls of the departmental councils will have to "ensure the effectiveness of the use of the aid" paid. Controls will therefore have to relate to the appropriations consumed, not to the hourly volume. Since your request has been met, I invite you to withdraw your amendment. In the absence of a withdrawal, I will issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u95	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion on Amendment No. 7?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u96	I agree with the rapporteur for the same reasons. We must accompany the use of the evaluation hours carried out; We have several ways to do this. Departments must judge the "consumption" of hours from a qualitative but also financial point of view, since they can be executed in three different ways. The proposal therefore seems to me to be balanced. I therefore invite you to withdraw this amendment. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u97	[[Smile]] I cannot, however, withdraw all my amendments...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u98	Amendment No 12 by Mrs Nathalie Elimas is editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u99	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u100	The ability to move is a strong marker of everyone's freedom to live according to their choices. The issue of modes of transport and access to all types of mobility, both ordinary and adapted, is a major issue for an inclusive society. The aim of this amendment is therefore to clarify that the Strategic Committee will have to work to ensure that all transport operators, and in particular so-called ordinary transport, are integrated into the reflection and that it will have to commit them to a universal accessibility approach, in order to allow our citizens with disabilities to move according to their choices and needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u102	You are asking an important question: you cannot ignore the difficulties faced by people with disabilities in moving around. Our society is ever more inclusive and, in this regard, I welcome the full commitment of the Secretary of State. We must give all our fellow citizens the maximum resources so that they can move easily. The question of ordinary transport therefore has its full place in the work to be carried out by the Committee. I am in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u103	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u104	The Member of Parliament pointed out something very important. If we want the degree of acceptance of the difference to increase very significantly, this difference must be visible. We must therefore allow people with disabilities to move around and we must work on the environment, including on the most ordinary mobilitys, using all possible means: training, accessibility and others. I am obviously very much in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u105	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u106	We come to the end of the discussion of this text. I have noted, Madam rapporteur, the Secretary of State, that you share my questions on Article 2, although you think that the solution you are proposing will enable us to break the deadlock. For my part, I doubt it: I'll give you an appointment in six months! My doubts are confirmed when I look at the deadlines, especially as we have just changed the article. If the deadline for implementation is different from that for publication, we will have to add 18 months to the six months. I am very afraid that many of us are no longer sitting in this House when the report is submitted to Parliament... There is some progress in the bill, but we would have liked it to be more important. A new text is to be presented to us shortly: I hope it will allow us to have a real debate on autonomy at all ages. Despite its reservation to Article 2, the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u107	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u108	I remain a little dubious about the reformulations that this bill is making. I am aware that she has a course and that you, the rapporteur, have tried to make as much progress as possible. I take it into account. In any case, our debate has shown the need to go far beyond the measures proposed. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left takes the few advances contained in the text, regretting, however, that we have not gone any further. Turning back to my amendment No 7, I am not entirely convinced that the wording of the text responds to my concerns. With regard to article 2, we regret the maintenance of an ambiguity that does not create a genuine right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u109	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u110	[[Applause on the benches of the MODEM group]] The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement is obviously very much in favour of this text, which has its origin in a bill by Philippe Berta, to whom I would like to pay tribute: Philippe Berta must be given what is Philippe Berta's.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u111	Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u112	[[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] I would like to thank Philippe Berta, who seems to me to have further improved the text. We go further than Philippe Berta, but we can thank him for changing this right to disability compensation. If there are concerns about Article 2, I would like to say that it is a way out of an imbroglio that has been going on for too long. Since we all pursue the same goal, we will be attentive to the decree. Let us meet in six months or one year to see the satisfaction of the people who have been able to benefit from this compensation benefit. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] The La République group welcomes all the articles in this text: the right to life, the removal of the 75-year-old barrier, the creation of the strategic committee. We will of course vote on this bill on improving access to disability compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u113	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u114	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] The IUD, Act and Independent Group will of course vote for this bill. We have all referred, on a watermark, to a policy of small steps; But the right to life and the removal of the 75-year-old barrier are not small steps for people with disabilities! In fact, we are taking a big step in their direction. You really have to write it down. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Madam Secretary of State, I have seen you comment on the proposal for a contract. Perhaps it will be possible, on the occasion of the publication of the decree, to evolve on this subject to reassure some of us. It is sometimes important to reassure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u115	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u116	[[Ms. Agnès Firmin Le Bodo applauds]] In the group Les Républicains, we are pleased that the beautiful and great law of 2005, desired by Jacques Chirac, continues to be supported throughout the legislatures. This bill makes progress on a number of issues: mobility and transport, the creation of a strategic committee, and the removal of the age barrier. However, any benefit requires funding and requires the question of the resource. In a country that seeks to control the use of public funds, we will be vigilant on this point and we will ensure that there is no transfer of charges on departmental councils. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-Agir, LaREM and MODEM groups]] Having said that, we are in unison today and will support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u117	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u118	As I said in the general discussion, there are no small steps: there are only big steps. For the La France group, certain provisions of this bill are to be welcomed; Others do not satisfy us. Our assessment has not changed since the general discussion. So I am not going to repeat myself, but I must say that I quite agree with Mrs Dubie's view on Article 2. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Our group will not take part in this vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u119	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u120	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 57 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 57 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-01-15-O1121.u121	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion of two draft laws, under simplified review procedure, authorizing the approval of international agreements; Discussion of a draft law authorizing the approval of the protocol France-Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally; Discussion of a draft law authorizing the approval of defence and cooperation agreements with Albania and Cyprus; Discussion of a draft law authorizing the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to participate in the affairs of local authorities. The meeting is adjourned.
