ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u1	The next item is the debate on the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u3	I am pleased to present to you, for the fourth year in a row, the broad directions of the 2021 Finance Bill. The discussion of the text will take place in exceptional economic circumstances: like all other States, France is affected by a crisis whose gravity can only be compared with that of the Great Recession of 1929. France will experience a 10% recession in 2020, the highest since the Second World War. This economic crisis, which is sometimes forgotten by violence, has had a direct impact on hundreds of thousands of employees and tens of thousands of companies. In the first half of the year, it led to the elimination of more than 715,000 jobs, mostly temporary, fixed-term contracts – CSD – short, or low-skilled. It affects sectors unevenly. Some of them, I welcome, are recovering quickly, thanks in particular to the support measures adopted last summer by the Government: the agri-food or automotive industries – France is the country of Europe that sold the largest number of cars this summer – or the services, construction and public works sectors. In all these areas, we have the right end and must continue to recover. Other sectors, on the other hand, are severely affected, such as hotels, restaurants, accommodation, bars, events, culture, sport and passenger transport. I am also thinking of the aeronautics sector, which is hit hard by the fall in air transport and the collapse of orders for new aircraft. The activity of hotels and travel agencies is still 40% lower than the normal activity, while the activity of air transport is 30% lower. Moreover, their prospects are not engaging; the coming months will remain difficult. Our accompaniment must therefore be maintained. Our responsibility, which we have assumed since the early days of the crisis in early March, is to support the sectors and territories that have been permanently affected by the crisis. We have made this choice from the beginning and we do not change it: all those who need to be helped by the public authorities will continue to be so as long as the economic crisis lasts. We have granted 120 billion euros of state-guaranteed loans to more than half a million companies, 95% of which are very small enterprises – TPE – and small and medium-sized enterprises – SMEs – I would like to point out. We have provided more than €6 billion in aid to 1.7 million traders, self-employed and artisans through the Solidarity Fund, which is maintained for certain sectors. We have granted tax and social carry-overs amounting to €42 billion since March, and social contributions to hotels, restaurants, culture and events have been abolished, amounting to €5 billion. We have accompanied millions of French and, I would like to say, saved hundreds of thousands of jobs thanks to partial unemployment, for which we have already spent EUR 22 billion. I am pleased that 1600 long-term partial-activity agreements have already been signed: this is proof that companies are taking advantage of this possibility. We have brought these mechanisms into force as early as March, but we have constantly listened to criticism, assessed the measures and corrected what was to be done. I have absolutely no claim to say that we have found the best solution at the outset, but we have provided a strong response and we have kept changing it. For example, state-guaranteed loans. Many companies are concerned that their interest loan will mature at 0.25 per cent and, fearing that it will not be able to repay it, are wondering at what rate they would be able to obtain an extension. This will be between 1 and 2.5 per cent, including the State guarantee. I will receive the French Banking Federation on 19 October to ensure that all banking agencies respect these figures for SMEs who would request an extension of their state-guaranteed loan. Last week, we also strengthened the solidarity fund for the sectors most affected by the crisis. It was reserved for companies employing up to 20 employees and will be extended to those employing up to 50 employees in the most tried and tested sectors. Companies that have lost 50% of their turnover will still be eligible for EUR 1500 per month; the aid paid to companies which have lost 70% of their turnover will reach EUR 10000 per month. At the request of certain sectors – and I thank parliamentarians for having made themselves their voice – we have considerably expanded the scope of the beneficiaries of this fund. About 30 tourism and event-related sectors will now be able to receive support, from which they were previously deprived. Thus, table arts, non-food shops located in international tourist areas, laundry, graphic designers who work in the event, photographers, florists – who sounded the alarm a few days ago about a real threat of disappearance – catering butchers, booksellers, coaches, foie gras manufacturers – victims of the cessation of family events – private security activities: all these sectors are now eligible for the solidarity fund. I repeat, we will maintain this policy of support for employees and businesses as long as the crisis lasts. I address myself to all those I have just quoted, as well as to the traders, the artisans, the independents: we were there during the crisis; We'll stay by your side. The State's response demonstrated its effectiveness. The economic, social and financial report annexed to the draft finance law shows that public administrations took over two thirds of the economic shock and that job losses were limited in view of the violence of the crisis: in the second quarter, partial activity absorbed almost three quarters of the decline in hours worked. Imagine what would have been in your territories the social situation, the situation of your businesses and businesses, without this policy of support for partial unemployment! Liquidity-related bankruptcies have been avoided: support schemes have reduced the number of companies facing this difficulty by more than 80%. Even the purchasing power of the vast majority of French has been preserved; Although it fell by 0.5% compared to 2019, production fell by 10%! The State has therefore played its role in times of crisis. The state has protected the employees, it has protected the companies, it has protected the French. As always in its history, the state has protected France. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, these additional costs have a consequence. Debt will reach 117.5% of GDP in 2020, an increase of about 20 percentage points over last year. I say it unambiguously: this debt, we will have to repay it. All those who make the French believe that we could exonerate ourselves from it sell illusions to them. But the French are more lucid than that. They know we'll have to pay back. They do not ask us to hide the truth from them, but to explain to them when and how we will repay. Public debt will reach 120 per cent of GDP by 2025, compared to 117.5 per cent today. By 2025 at the latest, it will have to fall. That is the timetable we must set ourselves. It will be limited, so that the French can follow its reduction year after year. Like our German neighbours, we are aiming for a full repayment of the covid-19 debt in 2042. That's for the calendar; We establish it in full transparency, in front of the French. As for the means of repayment, we first make the choice of growth, which is the most effective and sustainable instrument. By now launching the recovery, we are supporting the growth that will be used to repay the debt tomorrow. Secondly, we have control over our public finances, to which I know the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance is particularly attached. The principle of accountability must remain at the heart of public finances. We need to hold operating expenses and support investment expenditures. This course of action should guide us in controlling our public finances for the years to come. Olivier Dussopt and I therefore chose not to increase the number of jobs in the state civil service in 2021. Third way to repay debt, structural reforms will be needed, in due course, not only to reduce our debt, but also to achieve a better balance between revenue and expenditure. You know my conviction that pension reform is a top priority. We cannot defend one of the most generous social models in the world without giving ourselves the means to finance it. We cannot create a fifth branch of social security for dependency, which is one of the greatest human and social challenges of the twenty-first century and must be a pride for the majority, without asking ourselves the question of the work we will have to do to finance it. We will have other opportunities to discuss this during the review of the finance bill – the FLP – and this will be one of the most important issues in national political life in the years to come. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is precisely because we are making the choice to repay debt through growth that we must immediately start the recovery of our economy. I fully measure the constraints that health rules place on businesses. I hear everyone's calls, like the CGT's call this morning, which tells us that we need to focus on health over the economy, and thus slow down production. I confirm that on this subject we disagree with the CGT and Philippe Martinez. In our view, the protection of the most fragile sectors must be combined with the recovery of economic activity over the long term. We must learn to live with a virus that is there for a long time without abandoning the recovery of the economy, under pain of economic, social and psychological devastation, especially among the most fragile. Let us not forget to combine the revival of the economy and the fight against the virus! This is the challenge we will face in 2021. And the recovery is now. Recovery is already under way. Many major devices are already available for everyone. The calls for projects for industrial relocation are open: 1 billion euros are on the table for all industrial companies who would like to create a new production line in France rather than abroad. The 4000 euros for the hiring of a young person, the 8000 euros for the hiring of an apprentice over the age of 18, the 5000 euros for the hiring of an apprentice under the age of 18 are now available. Energy renovation works can also begin now. Investments in the production of decarbonated hydrogen, biotech and quantum computing can and must be made now if we want to see the benefits in the coming years. You know the priorities of this recovery: the ecological transition, the competitiveness of companies and solidarity. The acceleration of the ecological transition is a very strong expectation of our compatriots: the recovery plan gives us the concrete means to respond to it in a credible and effective way. We will invest €4 billion for the energy renovation of public buildings. In this envelope, 1 3 billion will go towards the renovation of the buildings of the local authorities, i.e. 300 million for the buildings of the regions and 1 billion euros by hand of the regional prefects to renovate schools, crèches or cultural centres. The energy renovation of public buildings in the State and those in higher education and research, in particular universities, will benefit from €2.7 billion. Calls for tenders have been closed since 9 October, and files are being processed according to the size of the projects. Only the financing decisions of the major renovation projects will be taken in Paris, all those concerning operations of less than 8 million euros in Île-de-France and 5 million in the rest of the country will be entrusted to the regional prefects, in consultation with the presidents of the regional councils. The Prefects will hold regional public real estate conferences by November 10 to select the selected projects. We want the energy renovation of public buildings to be decided by the territories, only the largest projects being the responsibility of the central state: it is up to the territories to decide which public buildings they want to renovate! The prefects will then forward, within three days, the files to the government's real estate management, who will initiate the projects. For the largest renovation projects, I will chair, around 20 November, the national conference on public real estate, which will select the major renovation projects. I have already asked the State Real Estate Directorate to commit without delay all the simplifications necessary to speed up the implementation of these projects. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups and a few benches of the LaREM group]] By the end of November, all public building renovation projects, whether local or national, will have been identified, selected and signed up so that the first works can start by the end of 2020. In the event of a delay in the disbursement of funds, we reserve the right, together with the Prime Minister, to reallocate the funds to the projects that will go as quickly as possible: we want the recovery to move forward quickly and that the energy renovation of the buildings will not be delayed. For the renovation of private dwellings, energy renovation works have been eligible for MaPrimeRénov' since 1 October. You can go to the website of the recovery plan, planderelance.gouv.fr, which has just opened in a simplified version to the maximum: you will find all the necessary information about the different devices of the recovery plan. With regard to MaPrimeRénov', you will have access to a simulator on the site that allows everyone, in five minutes, to estimate the amount of assistance to be provided, depending on their level of income and the work planned. I cannot encourage our compatriots to visit the website planderelance.gouv.fr, tab MaPrimeRénov ', to know the amount they will be able to dispose of in their particular case. If the work is started after 1 October, the aid will be paid on 1 January 2021. In total, every Frenchman will be able to receive aid of up to 20,000 euros over five years. Finally, companies can also carry out energy renovations now. A tax credit for TPEs and SMEs is available for all expenses incurred since 1 October, with 30% of the work covered, up to a limit of EUR 25,000. As you can see, no one has been left behind: the energy renovation of the buildings is committed all azimuts in France for the State, the local authorities, the households and the companies. The second priority of this plan, you know it, is to improve the competitiveness of companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u4	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u5	The modernization funds for the aviation and automotive sectors were launched this summer. Thirty-seven projects have already been selected: 18 in the automotive sector, 19 in the aeronautics sector. Very concretely, this means that public funding will support the company Comau, in Castres, the world leader in the manufacture of advanced automotive automation systems, the company E4V, which designs and manufactures solutions for lithium-ion-phosphate iron batteries in Le Mans, or the company Cimulec which is working on a new digital printing technology. As you can see, the French SMEs that will benefit from this aid are of all kinds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u6	What about the tires in Bethune?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u7	In the coming months, we will continue to launch such calls for projects in the fields of 5G or chemistry. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] Many have told us that the device remains too complicated. We have heard the call from SMEs, in particular the Confederation of Small and Medium Enterprises: when it comes to our calls for projects in the field of industrial relocation, decarbonisation of industry and digitisation of SMEs, they told us that it was still too complicated. They were right! For the past two weeks, we have therefore made the system much simpler. Where there were three windows for access to digitisation of SMEs, only one remains; where there were three windows for the decarbonization of the industry, there is only one. This is how we will move forward, simplifying to the extreme, with a single window for each call for projects. Each company will be able to come to this one-stop shop to benefit from up to 40% of its decarbonisation or digitalisation costs, on the simple presentation of its invoice – software, for example, in the case of digitalisation. It will be sufficient for the company to visit the website planderelance.gouv.fr, select the device and deposit its invoice to receive a refund of 40%. SMEs are at the heart of the recovery plan: they must be the primary beneficiaries of this plan. To support them, we will adopt two additional measures, proposed by parliamentarians. The income tax reduction of EUR 10000 for an investment in a French SME will be extended by one year until 31 December 2021. In addition, the reduced corporate tax rate of 15% will benefit all SMEs whose turnover does not exceed €10 million, compared to the current €7.6 million. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] We also want the Chambers of Commerce and Industry – CCI – to continue their work in the service of companies. For almost four years, we have had many discussions on the KICs. We do not want to give up the transformation of these public institutions, which is indispensable. Nevertheless, I had always told the KICs and the national representation that if the economic situation became less favourable, we could revise the path of savings required of the chambers of commerce and industry. That is what we have done, at the request of parliamentarians: I am pleased to announce that we have reached agreement today with the representatives of the IABs on the revision of this trajectory. Instead of the 249 million earmarked for the year 2021, they will retain 349 million euros of assigned taxes in order to cope with the tense financial situation in which they operate. We will limit the reduction of the tax ceiling allocated in 2022 to EUR 50 million. These two advances will enable the IABs to see the future with confidence. In return, they are committed to raising awareness of the challenges of green and digital transitions, and to further modernizing and reorganizing their network – we will ensure that they do so. Improving the competitiveness of our companies also means reducing production taxes. We will reduce them by EUR 10 billion from 1 January 2021. I say this in full transparency: we will not condition this tax reduction, simply because we are simply restoring tax fairness between France and the other countries of the European Union. Production taxes are seven times higher in France than in Germany and twice as high as the European Union average: we need to know what we want! If we want to succeed in industrial relocation, open new factories and create new jobs for workers, we must immediately commit the reduction of production taxes in France. That's what the majority does. France remains the OECD country with the highest compulsory levies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u9	This finances social security!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u10	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] They continue to weigh heavily on our competitiveness and on households. We will therefore stick to the line set by the President of the Republic, which I have been repeating for almost four years, because it depends on the success of the recovery: no tax increase, no new tax. And even less so on the taxation of savings, as some invite me to do. As Minister of Finance, I will oppose any taxation of the savings of the French: we already tax the work of the French so as not to tax the product of the latter in addition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u11	And the richest?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u12	Increasing taxes as we face the challenge of economic recovery, supporting businesses, especially SMEs, and creating new jobs would amount to making the same mistake we have consistently made for decades, namely, killing the recovery through taxation. On the contrary, I believe that it is necessary to boost the recovery through the support of companies, the reduction of production taxes and the support of employees with partial unemployment. Let us not depart from the simple and effective line of the economic reconstruction of France. On the other hand, I would like companies to engage in three directions on which we have worked with parliamentarians. The first concerns the reduction of CO emissions in companies. We need to draw up a simplified but mandatory greenhouse gas emissions balance sheet for all companies with more than 250 employees: this balance sheet will have to be updated every three years to ensure that these companies commit themselves in practice to reducing their CO emissions. The second direction, to which I am deeply attached, on which we had worked with Muriel Pénicaud, then Minister of Labour, and which appears in the law of 22 May 2019 on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE law, is the parity between women and men in the world of work and enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u13	Parity means nothing! What about equal pay?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u14	[[Mr. Roland Lescure applauds]] It is a struggle of every moment, in which we must never relax our commitment. Today, the account is not there. Thanks to the law of 27 January 2011, known as Copé-Zimmermann, we obtained parity on the boards of directors. I am in favour of all companies benefiting from the recovery plan demonstrating concrete progress on this issue. I hope that their score on the gender index will increase and be made public. I remain in favour of achieving parity in the executive committees of large French companies within time limits and in accordance with procedures to be defined.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u15	What about the workers and the employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u16	The third is the promotion of social dialogue in the implementation of the recovery plan. It is clear that employees will have to be consulted on the use of the aid received under the recovery plan and give their opinion to the company's governance bodies. That is how we will ensure the proper and sound implementation of this plan. The third priority of the recovery plan is the fight against poverty. The crisis hit the most fragile. I am thinking in particular of the young people who are about to enter the labour market: those whom I met this morning in Verdun expressed their concern and asked me what jobs they were going to find, what learning places they were going to get. I am thinking of the interim workers, who were hit by a third of the job losses in the first half of the year. I am thinking of employees in CSD whose contract has not been renewed. The rise of poverty in France because of the crisis is a reality that we want to fight with the utmost determination. The best way to combat poverty, I have had the opportunity to say so in this forum, is to create jobs. More than 14% of French people live below the poverty line; They are 37% unemployed. Combating unemployment is therefore also a fight against poverty; creating jobs is reducing it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Acting Together groups]] Combating poverty also requires social assistance. In April, the Government paid a bonus of 150 euros to the beneficiaries of the active solidarity income – RSA – and the specific solidarity allowance. The Government and the majority have re-aligned the school start-up allowance for a total amount of half a billion; they have invested $200 million to increase the supply of emergency accommodation; They set the price of university meals for all scholarship students at 1 euro, compared to more than 3 euros previously. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you do not have to be ashamed of what has been done by the Government and by the majority to support the poorest. We will continue to fight the rise of poverty by complementing the poverty plan announced in 2018, as declared by the Prime Minister. I will never claim that we have done everything perfectly in the exceptional circumstances that we are going through. But I think we've done our best; that we have done everything possible; we supported the companies and employees who needed it. We will continue to do so. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I believe above all that we offer a perspective to the French: that of a recovery of the economy in two years, which will allow us to return in 2022 to the level of economic development of 2019. I would not want the French to forget that, thanks to your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we had at the beginning of 2020 one of the highest growth in the euro area; that we had fallen below the 8% unemployment rate in metropolitan France; that we were the most attractive country for foreign investment; that we were on the right path, that of economic recovery, that of a nation that keeps its place among the most developed in the world. I promise you that we will find this path in two years' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u17	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u18	I am particularly pleased to present the 2021 budget to you, although, after three years of continuous recovery in public finances, we are now presenting figures that are deeply marked by the violence of the crisis. The government deficit is expected to reach 10.2% in 2020 – a record for several decades – and 6.7% in 2021. These figures alone reflect the scale and intensity of measures taken to protect the French and their impact on the level of public finances. All the measures deployed to deal with the crisis – 470 billion emergency measures and a 100 billion recovery plan – reach levels that are never equalled and that exceed understanding. Yet some do not hesitate to claim that this would not be enough. Conversely, others are concerned about their impact on public finances. These debates show that governing means making choices between sometimes conflicting imperatives and reconciling sometimes conflicting objectives, however legitimate they may be. No one disputes the need for the recovery plan, which is essential for the recovery of the economy and the preservation of jobs. However, it is equally essential to reconcile this objective with the imperative of sustainability of public finances. We must be serious about the budget, including the recovery; That's the first point I'm going to develop. We do not want the recovery to turn into a lasting burden on public accounts, but rather to have a rapid effect on the economy and lay the foundations for a new, more robust and sustainable growth. It is through growth that we will repay the debt, without increasing taxes. The sustainability of the recovery plan implies that its expenditure is temporary and reversible. The application of this principle is reflected in the PLF by the creation of an exceptional budgetary mission, with 36.4 billion commitment authorisations and 22 billion payment appropriations from 2021, divided into three intervention programmes. The rest of the 100 billion of the recovery plan is traced to other ministerial budgets, within the programme of investments of the future, in the revenues of the State as regards the reduction of production taxes and even outside the PLF, since part of the recovery measures are based on social security, UNEDIC, the Bank of the Territories and Bpifrance. In total, the State's direct contribution to the recovery plan amounts to EUR 86 billion, including EUR 20 billion in production taxes and EUR 66 billion in budgetary appropriations. The very content of this recovery plan reconciles the logics which are too often opposed, while they are complementary. This is particularly the case with the debate on the balance between supply and demand, the second point I would like to dwell on. Some blame the stimulus plan for doing too much for supply and not enough for demand and purchasing power. However, it is a fact that the recovery plan and, more broadly, the PLF are massively supporting purchasing power. First of all, we invest in preserving employment, because unemployment is the primary cause of insecurity and poverty. This is the sense of the 6.6 billion we spend on long-term partial activity; This is the meaning of the general measures of support for apprenticeship, for 2.7 billion, and of the premium for the recruitment of young people, for 1.1 billion; This is also the sense of strengthened and personalized support for young people towards employment, with 1.3 billion dedicated to the creation of 300,000 support and tailor-made integration routes; Finally, this is the meaning of the 100 million earmarked for the employment of disabled workers. We also support the most fragile fellow citizens, with an increase of 100 euros in the school start-up allowance, which was paid last August; with the strengthening of 100 million of the resources of the policy of access to housing and housing; or with the 100 million support plan for anti-poverty associations. This balance between supply and demand has been the focus of our policy since the very beginning of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u19	That was not entirely the case!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u20	I often hear the opposition talk about capital tax reforms and corporate tax cuts, more rarely the abolition of the housing tax – which has become a reality for 80% of French people this year – the social and tax exemption from overtime, the massive increase in the activity premium, or the 5 billion reduction in income tax, which is concentrated on the first tranches. The reality of our policy is that since the beginning of the quinquennium, a single person paid at the SMIC has seen his disposable income increase by almost 140 euros per month, or 1677 euros per year, thanks to the action of the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u21	With allowances!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u22	In total, by including the 2021 measures, including the 10 billion reduction in production taxes, taxes will have decreased by 45 billion between 2018 and 2021. This decline is half to business and half to households. We also reconcile the achievement of the objectives of strengthening the sovereign missions of the State, in the face of strong political choices in terms of transformations promoting structural economies; That is the third point I would like to address. Without a stimulus plan and without a guarantee call, the appropriations that I would normally call departments will increase by $7.8 billion, an evolution that is in line with previous years. Within this envelope, we are significantly strengthening the funding of the Government's strategic and regal missions. The trajectory of the military programming law is again strictly respected, with an increase of 1.7 billion in the appropriations of the "Defence" mission. The budget of the Ministry of Justice increased by 610 million, or 8%, for the benefit of local justice; It's a historical development. The Ministry of the Interior benefits from an increase in its resources of 433 million. We are continuing to strengthen national education, particularly for the first level, with an increase in the funding of the "School Education" mission of 1.4 billion. Finally, by 2021 we will be able to realize the path envisaged by the Research Programming Act, with the creation of 700 jobs for the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation; the funds allocated to research increase by 400 million as from 2021. In addition to these priorities and the funding of the commitments made, we are continuing the processing work. Thus, reforms in the field of housing continue to unfold. Next year will see the first year of real-time housing aid calculations. We plan to use the abundant reserves of Action Logement to fund our policies. In this connection, we are continuing the ongoing discussions with the social partners to improve the organisation and governance of this body: this will be the subject of an amendment in the second part. The network of chambers of commerce and industry must continue to be modernised. Parliament expressed concern about the planned financial trajectory in the current context; The Government is hearing it today, as it heard yesterday. From the PLF for 2020, we gave a favourable opinion to a parliamentary initiative proposing to reduce the reduction of resources by 30 million, through the return of the France Télécom levy. Today we take note of the many amendments adopted by the Finance Committee; It was in the light of its discussions that we decided to seek a new balance with the KIC network. As Bruno Le Maire has said, we have reached an agreement, which will be reflected in an amendment proposing a reduction in the amount of resources allocated in 2021 and extending the trajectory until 2022. In return, the network will engage in a project of pooling its resources and optimizing its organisation, and will contract with the State with regard to the quantified objectives of accompanying companies. This will be reported to Parliament in due course, with a report from the Government. This agreement, which will be translated into a protocol with the chambers of commerce, will be made public; the summary statement of the amendment will present it. More generally, our budgetary seriousness is reflected in the sincerity of the text we are presenting. Since 2017, we have chosen not to hide anything, to be honest with ourselves and with the French. It is a democratic requirement; It is also a requirement for the readability and credibility of our accounting policy. Continuing the work already well under way, the PLF provides for the rebudgeting of two trust accounts and funds without legal personality, particularly in the field of ecology. On the other hand, we maintain a reserve rate of only 3 per cent on average, excluding payroll. As in 2020, a rate of 0.5% will be applied to expenditure on the allowance for adults with disabilities, the activity premium and personal housing assistance, which we know is almost incompressible. The consolidation of public management also requires that a number of mechanisms be brought into line with Community law. Everyone remembers that the beginning of the quinquennium was marked by the costly litigation over the 3% dividend tax. We cannot be satisfied with situations where the application of our law would put companies – but also our revenues and those of the communities – at legal risk for non-compliance with European Union law. It is with this objective in mind that we in the PLF secure the VAT system on composite offers and that we create in our law the VAT group scheme. The effort to address the risk of litigation since 2017 is bearing fruit. Over the period 2007-2017, the amount of provisions for litigation has steadily increased from 3.7 billion to 25.8 billion. It was reduced to 22.6 billion at the end of 2019, a decrease of 12.4% from the beginning of the quinquennium. In the same spirit of simplification and readability, we continue to remove low-yield taxes and inefficient tax expenditures, identified with your support. These schemes are stifling the tax landscape and weighing as much on the French as on the administrations, with revenues sometimes lower than their cost of recovery. The year 2021 will reduce this inefficient tax by EUR 307 million, with no effect on the affectors since we will make full compensation. I come to the fourth point, which I would like to stress: in this budget we also reconcile the logic of national solidarity with the logic of local responsibility. The State has been and remains the pillar of the nation in this period of crisis: it has absorbed, and will continue to do so, the bulk of the costs that it generates for citizens, businesses and public entities; it replaces employers in order to maintain the remuneration of employees in partial employment; It shall carry forward and exempt the taxes and contributions of undertakings whose activities are disrupted; it ensures a minimum income for the self-employed; it compensates for revenue losses from public authorities and institutions through grants and advances. [[Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve applauds]] The State, whose centrality is sometimes so quickly criticized, has proven to be both essential to all and, fortunately, strong and responsive, even under degraded operating conditions of institutions and organizations. While the State guaranteeing national solidarity has found itself at the forefront, its interventions have never been so concerned with irrigating the territories and giving the actors on the ground the freedom to decide as closely as possible on local realities. The recovery plan is primarily a recovery plan for the territories. After EUR 1 billion of investment funds voted in the third draft amending finance law for 2020 – PLFR3 – to finance local investment projects relating in particular to ecological transition and health resilience, the PLF for 2021 deepens the path. Lower production taxes will help to reinvigorate the economic and industrial attractiveness of the territories. This decline is primarily intended to support our manufacturing industry, which alone will account for 30% of the total, as well as the trade sector, which will account for 15%. It should be noted that it will be the mid-sized enterprises – ETIs – that will be the main beneficiaries, accounting for 42% of the total decline, ahead of SMEs and TPEs, accounting for 33%, and finally the large enterprises. This measure is the responsibility of the State, which will compensate for it in full and in a dynamic way for local and regional authorities. These will be earmarked for revenue and compensation to the euro: the regions will benefit from the transfer of a share of VAT, while the municipal block will be granted a levy on the revenue of the State, the modalities of which will be identical to that of a rebate, which will therefore allow dynamic compensation. Similarly, the recovery plan will be conducted in a highly territorialised and deconcentrated manner. First, some funding will be allocated through calls for projects deconcentrated at regional level and managed by operators, such as ADEME – Environment and Energy Management Agency. We also choose to entrust the prefects and their deconcentrated departments with the responsibility of identifying the relevant projects in their territory, with the national level merely defining the eligibility criteria for these projects. Finally, fungible envelopes will be made available to regional prefects. These include EUR 600 million for the regions, in accordance with the political agreement of 28 September. 250 million of the regionalised investment programme for the future; or the 200 million contribution to regional investment funds for innovation. Finally, and this will be the last point on which I would like to stress, it is certainly in the environmental field that reconciliation of legitimate but sometimes opposed objectives is both the most necessary and the most complex. In terms of ecology, as we know, nothing is easier and nothing is more counterproductive than a manichean approach to things.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u24	We want to boost the economy, protect businesses, employment and purchasing power, and act for the protection of our planet and our environment. We want that all at the same time, and I am convinced that there is no other credible path than this one, even if it is narrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u25	At the same time...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u26	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u27	Indeed, Mrs. Dalloz, we want that all at the same time. The debates you have had in committee on the increase in the CO malus or the taxation of fuels – we will probably have the same discussions in the House on the amendments to transcribe the proposals of the citizens' climate convention – show that it is sometimes difficult to find the right balance. We understand your concerns and we want to address them. I note, moreover, that these concerns are sometimes diametrically opposed, with on the one hand those who want, tomorrow morning, a radical change of model, and on the other those who reject the ecological imperative on the grounds that it requires a change in our ways of life. Here too, we try to build a balance, which, by definition, cannot be unanimous. But whether we achieve unanimity or not, it is in complete transparency that we want to move forward. It is the "green budget" approach, a document that reflects the complexity of environmental issues, which says what an environmentally-friendly or environmentally-friendly expenditure is. This document shows that we need to reconcile environmental objectives with each other. It shows that certain expenditure which is unfavourable to the environment has a different justification, which must be reconciled with the environmental objective. And it shows that many expenditures can be ambiguous from the point of view of their effects on the environment. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group and Action ens]] The green budget is, at all points, a democratic exercise. Its aim is to improve the information of citizens and of Parliament, so as to inform the vote that everyone will make in conscience. It was wanted by Parliament, built with it, and I would like to welcome the particular involvement of MEP Bénédicte Peyrol in this matter. This first edition of the Green Budget required considerable analysis. At the end of this work, the rigorous methodology that we have followed leads us to rate 38 billion euros of expenditure from the state budget as being environmentally friendly – i.e. they are in favour of at least one of the six criteria selected without ever being unfavourable to any other – and to identify 10 billion items of expenditure that are environmentally friendly – i.e. unfavourable to at least one of the six criteria without ever being in favour of any other. It is up to us all to take advantage of this beautiful tool, to improve it over the years, and above all to draw the consequences. Finally, I would add that this classification does not prejudge the effectiveness of the expenditure. An expenditure can be classified as green, but achieve its objectives at a cost that exceeds what is necessary. Even more green spending is not necessarily synonymous with ecological progress. This is the case, for example, with support for renewable energy and more specifically with support for photovoltaic energy, which will be the subject of an amendment by the Government in the second part of the finance bill. The setting of too high tariffs in this area can lead to excessive rents for private actors, who have nothing to do with ecology. We will propose solutions to the House to deal with abusive situations which, while minority, require regulation. With regard to the ecological transition, this budget represents a considerable effort, as the funding of the mission "Sustainable Ecology, Development and Mobility" is increasing by more than 900 million. In addition, let us reiterate that €33 billion of the recovery plan is earmarked for ecology, including €18.4 billion of the €36.4 billion commitment authorisations of the Recovery Plan mission. So, as you see, and that was said before me by Bruno The Mayor, the priority is to revive. The crisis and the means we deploy to support and revive our economy, however, have a cost, which should be recalled. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, our public deficit will exceed 10.2% of GDP in 2020 and reach 6.7% of GDP in 2021. Public debt will be 117.5% of GDP and 116.2% of GDP next year. It is therefore necessary to project ourselves in time, to find a path of public finances which provides for a medium-term reduction of this debt and which allows us to return to acceptable ratios in terms of the weight of public expenditure in the economy, and to maintain our downward trajectory of compulsory levies and their weight in GDP. This is a major exercise that we will have to face together in the coming months. We are going to look at a truly historic budget, because priority is to be given to relaunching, and I am very pleased to approach these discussions in a constructive spirit, which I believe has always animated us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u29	We have worked intensively with parliamentarians, in a spirit of harmony and openness, to develop the recovery plan and the budget that contains it. We are approaching the consideration of this PLF for 2021 by your Assembly in the same way,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u30	We're reassured!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u31	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] ... hoping that the debates will be equally passionate, cordial, constructive, but above all useful for the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u32	Excellent budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u33	We can vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u34	Excellent deputy minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u35	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u36	Everything's changed! Since the last time a rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance presented the draft annual budget to you, everything has changed. Many of our certaintys about the growth of the world economy, the expansion of trade or the improvement of our public finances have been shaken,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u37	Not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u38	...when our open societies found themselves vulnerable to the pandemic. Many of our fiscal and monetary policy references have gone away, along with the usual benchmarks that guided our budgetary review. And many of our citizens and businesses have found themselves confronted with an unprecedented health situation and restrictions, from which we have not yet left.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u39	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u40	So we are all facing a historic budget, which will remain in the memory of the Government, Parliament and beyond. I say this with some seriousness and with the utmost determination, because we must, beyond the political divisions that I respect and wish to make live throughout our debates, offer our fellow citizens clarity, transparency, protection and the ability to define the paths of our collective future in this troubled period. If this budget is historic, it is primarily because of the macroeconomic context in which we find ourselves. The fall in economic activity in 2020 has been unprecedented since the creation of the national accounts, although the deterioration seems ultimately less severe than we predicted in the PLFR3, and it is happy. At the end of the year, however, the rebound in the economy is hampered by uncertainties, whether it is the development of the health situation or the economic recovery of our European partners. In that context, macroeconomic forecasting was complex, but the High Council for Public Finance had validated the main assumptions put forward by the Government. Priority is therefore given to reviving the economy. In this regard, and I have had the opportunity to repeat it, I find that the opposition between supply and demand is somewhat over-year old.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u41	Yeah...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u42	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Indeed, this crisis is unprecedented and when we put an economy and, therefore, a consumption, we cannot know whether priority should be given to supply or demand! What counts is to restart the country, and hence the economy, production, employment and consumption at the same time. The stimulus therefore consists in supporting households, which have formed an important precautionary savings during confinement. It also involves getting businesses back on track and thus protecting employment. As rapporteur-general of the budget, I tell you that my first compass will be employment – you will check it regularly when I give my opinions on the amendments. In this area, the Government anticipates a strong rebound next year, although the business situation remains uncertain. Finally, it involves resuming public investment, which makes the plan that we are proposed to consider unprecedented. Everyone must take ownership of our country's recovery plan. And as pedagogy is a matter of repetition, after Bruno Le Maire I quote in my turn the website planderelance.gouv.fr: every Frenchman, every company must visit it to see the measures intended for him. Because this budget is historic by its size: 100 billion euros over two years, or four points of GDP; This has never been done. This amount amounts to 78 billion direct funding from the state, social security agencies and public financial institutions, 20 billion tax cuts and 2 billion euros of guarantees. The plan consists of three pillars, which the French now know. The first is the greening of our economy, with the energy renovation of real estate, support for biodiversity and the circular economy, or the agricultural transition. This first pillar will be accompanied by the Green budget, which we have created this year. This is an innovative methodology – we are the first European country to practice it – that will objectively demonstrate that our budget is particularly favourable to the ecological transition, and a fortiori the recovery plan. The second pillar is the strengthening of the competitiveness of enterprises. Indeed, more than short-term support, this plan must lead to profound changes in the French economy. Indeed, it would be totally absurd to oppose greening to competitiveness. To achieve the ecological transition is not to give a green brush so that companies can assert themselves ecologically. No, investing in the ecological transition is creating the jobs of tomorrow, as we do in certain sectors, like hydrogen. As for the third pillar, it is about social cohesion – and you know that I do. It is essential to support fragile audiences. This recovery plan, in its entirety, carries a very great ambition: that of a country that wants to get out of the crisis and invest in its future. For the year 2021, we are therefore starting today to examine a first translation of this recovery plan. This amounts to EUR 57 billion, with EUR 36 billion committed to the "Relaunch Plan" mission, for which the chairman of the committee and I are special rapporteurs; 11 billion for the fourth investment programme for the future; and 10 billion from the fall in production taxes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These funds will support both business, investment and employment, and strengthen the purchasing power of households. I shall now turn to this last point: our action in this area is in keeping with previous budgets. Find me a recent quinquennium in which so much has been done for the purchasing power of households! It does not start with this recovery plan, it is pure continuity. The commitments made following the Ségur de la santé, which will be translated into the draft law on the financing of social security – PLFSS – also provide for an envelope of €8.8 billion in order to increase the salaries of staff in health institutions and EHPADs – accommodation facilities for dependent elderly people. In addition, I would like to determine by the end of the year – rather in the PLFR4 – which households have been most affected by the health crisis, particularly during the period of confinement. We'll have an opportunity to talk about it again. This recovery plan is finally part of a renewed European promise. I would like to dwell on this point as well. The July European Council reached an agreement on the financing of national recovery plans through common debt issues. This agreement is not only a decisive step forward for European construction and solidarity, but also an element of credibility and solidity for the budgetary policies of the euro area and the Union. The implementation of this agreement requires ratification by the National Assembly; We will have the opportunity to do so by the end of the year. On the budgetary front, these appropriations will make it possible to finance 40% of the French recovery plan. In order to avoid tax increases, we will have to find new resources that would make use of a very low tax base. The Commission is already working on the taxation of carbon imports, large digital companies, of course, or financial transactions. We'll get back to it. Finally, let me look further than 2021 alone. We are emerging from a crisis that has dramatically deteriorated our public accounts: the deficit would be close to 7% of GDP next year; government debt would stand at 117.5% of GDP in 2020 and remain at a very high level for a long time. I would like to say this from the outset: this additional debt is necessary. Yes, there is good debt and there is bad debt: getting into debt to respond to the emergency and to support a recovery plan is useful and even necessary. The question we must ask ourselves now is the path of restoring public finances that we are able to propose not only to those who lend us, but also to the European Union and more broadly to all our fellow citizens who follow these subjects with great attention. This recovery plan seems to me to be possible only if we can demonstrate the seriousness of our public accounts as well as our ability to manage our structural balance well and finally move towards a primary surplus. For the "whatever it costs" is by no means an open tap for the entire public expenditure. We will have to remain collectively vigilant: as much debt as is necessary in the face of the crisis and for recovery, as much as it would be guilty, if not irresponsible, towards future generations, of letting go of all the spending of the state. Finally, I will present some additions to the Government text proposed by the Finance Committee. Firstly, the extension of the number of SMEs benefiting from the reduced rate of corporate tax: the ceiling will be raised to EUR 10 million in turnover, the minister said. Secondly, the ceiling for exemption from the sustainable mobility package should be increased to EUR 500. Or a reform of the taxation of non-residents and, in the continuity of previous financial laws, the abolition of small taxes and inefficient tax expenditure. Yes, fiscal cleansing remains important for the smooth readability of our public finances by our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Now is the time for debate. Don't be afraid of it; It will be fed, it will be difficult, because the time is serious. But let us all find, regardless of our political opinions, the keys for France to regain its pre-crisis level of growth and prosperity. We all need it. This is essential for the jobs of our citizens and for the daily lives of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u43	[[At 17.00, Mr. Marc Le Fur replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u44	Mrs Anne-France Brunet, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u45	Article 3 of the 2021 Finance Bill provides for a reduction in the contribution on the value added of enterprises – ACVE – and a decrease in the cap rate of the territorial economic contribution – CET. Adding to this the measures in Article 4 to reduce the property tax on built properties – TFPB – and the property tax on businesses – CFE – shows that production taxes will fall by almost 10 billion euros each year, starting next year. We can be pleased with the momentum, as production taxes remain too high in our country. They account for 3.2% of GDP in France, compared with an average of 1.6% of GDP in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u47	As we know, they evolved faster than GDP between 2007 and 2016. If we have to reduce production taxes, it is simply because they are a barrier to the productivity and competitiveness of our companies, as Philippe Martin and Alain Trannoy rightly pointed out in a note from the Economic Analysis Council in June 2019. To make it simple, production taxation leads companies to make bad decisions in the use of their resources. It causes tax cascading effects and increases in the final cost of inputs, thus constituting a subsidy for the import of foreign inputs. These taxes therefore discourage investment, which is necessary to prepare our country's future. Let us turn now to the substance of Rule 3, which is before the Committee on Economic Affairs for its opinion. The CVAE, as I recall, is a contribution on the value added of enterprises, paid at a rate set at national level and ranging between zero and 1.5% of the tax value added. The companies subject to it, in practice, are those with a turnover of more than €500,000. The proceeds of the CVAE, which amounted to EUR 18.9 billion in 2019, must be distinguished from the total amount of CVAE paid by companies, namely EUR 14.5 billion. The difference, of the order of EUR 4 billion, corresponds to the reductions compensated by the State. The ACVEN's revenue is earmarked for and distributed among local authorities, at 26.5% for the municipal block, i.e. EUR 5.7 billion in 2019, 23.5% for the departments, i.e. EUR 3.8 billion in 2019, and finally 50% for the regions, i.e. EUR 9.5 billion in 2019. The reform proposed in Article 3 seems to me simple, clear and beneficial to all parties. Our companies will benefit greatly from the division by two of the EAC rates and the decrease in the cap of the TEC. The winners will be numerous: in the manufacturing industry, the gain is 1.5 billion; In the field of trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles, it is 1.3 billion. A total of 530000 companies will benefit from a EUR 7.2 billion VAEC gain, of which almost 2.5 billion will benefit SMEs and 2.9 billion will benefit SMEs. At the same time, communities will be fully compensated for their resources by 2021. This commitment by the Government was formalized in a partnership agreement with the regions; It is found in section 3 of this Finance Bill. This will enable the regions to support territorial recovery, which is essential for recovery. Moreover, the dynamism of the VAT resource appears to be favourable to the communities over the long term. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, this measure allows us to move towards a reduction in taxes on businesses, in line with the commitment made by the President of the Republic in 2017. It also invites us to reflect on the desirable evolutions of the ACVEN for the levels of local authorities other than the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u49	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u50	In many ways, the year 2020 will remain engraved in our memories as a historic year, due to the health and economic crisis, but also to the unprecedented exercise of participatory democracy that was the citizen convention for the climate. For the legislator, and especially for the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning, which I have the honour to represent here, these two events must be analysed through the same prism. The epidemic of covid-19 only reinforced questions about the organization of our society. Containment has shown the impact of human activities on the environment, and highlighted the strengths and weaknesses of our economic fabric, as our growing dependence on increasingly globalized flows. Above all, it has shaken the certainty of many sectors and called into question many of the choices we make as citizens as well as as consumers. These questions were raised equally acutely by the Citizen Climate Convention. Born of a commitment of the President of the Republic, it proposes today a civic trajectory to respond to the crisis. Our committee draws two main lessons from this period. First of all, we need to strengthen environmental law for the protection of biodiversity and climate: we need to increase further the incentives for ecological transition, particularly for the most polluting economic actors. Economy and ecology must combine at the same time, the time of ambition, pragmatism, optimism. Secondly, we must at all costs aim at the social acceptability of the measures, by providing more targeted, understandable and stable aid to citizens and businesses. That is what this majority is proposing, and that is what this Government is proposing. In this sense, our committee welcomes the presentation this year of a 'green' budget. France is the first country to have such a tool, which will make it possible to better identify expenditure harmful to the environment and to better influence the resources of the State. We can hope that this green budget will allow our environmental policies to be better accepted. The finance bill before us contains the beginning of the unprecedented stimulus plan presented by the Government in September. It will enable our country to hold on to the shock by protecting employment and supporting investment, alongside our communities and businesses. This year again, the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning has been able to make a proposal. In particular, it chose to include in the debate the first operational proposals of the Citizen's Climate Convention. Here I would like to highlight an emblematic measure, which we have been defending for three years: the increase of 100 euros in the sustainable mobility package, which would thus increase from 400 to 500 euros. This is an important step forward, which must be stressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u52	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Now is the time for debate. This budget for 2021 must anticipate the measures proposed in the draft law resulting from the proposals of the citizens' convention which will be presented at a later stage. The Committee on Sustainable Development will play its full role in accelerating our country's ecological transition and accompanying the French on this path.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u53	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u54	Let me make a slightly different voice here from those that have just spoken.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u55	It's gonna be good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u56	When the covid crisis devastated our economy, we were already in a bad position, with a debt close to 100% of GDP, a public deficit outside CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – at 2.2% and an unemployment rate at 8.1% – thus mass unemployment – rising sharply, just before confinement. This crisis has highlighted our weaknesses but should above all be a sign of consciousness. Did you really do everything before the crisis to restore our public finances? Did you put France back on track? I don't think so. We are at a crossroads, but it is the impasse that is waiting for us. This year, the government deficit is expected to peak at 10.2%. On the social accounts side, between revenue losses and expenditure increases, the deficit will be multiplied by nine, reaching EUR 44 billion in 2020 alone. If no one questions the impact of the health crisis on our public finances, I wonder about your choices. We drive in thick fog, without headlights or GPS. Budget forecasts have never been more volatile: between July and September 2020, the government's deficit varied by EUR 30 billion, more than the budget for research and higher education! This budget has one particular feature: it comes at a time when the health crisis is far from over. In the face of this great uncertainty, the British Government has taken the decision to postpone the presentation of its budget. Without going so far, you could have taken into account the extreme volatility of the situation, which quickly renders any forecast obsolete. You should have sought to mark other paths than the path you have chosen, and accompanied the budget with other scenarios. In addition to the traditional indicators of inflation, consumption and growth, you could also have used the "covid" indicator for the construction of your budget. This would have allowed you to draw several scenarios, one with a persistent health crisis, the other with a declining health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u58	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u59	But you didn't think it was useful to put it this way, nor did you think it was right to add a multi-year funding plan to this budget – I'm not even talking about a programming law. You have remained in general with regard to financing. However, this would have been a useful innovation, likely to inspire more confidence. What characterizes this budget is that you don't finance anything. I want to point out that our level of public debt should be close to 117% of GDP in the period from 2020 to 2025. Our debt would not fall, even though the debt of the countries of the European Union is on average around 80% of GDP. What are we in debt for? For operation! Of the 153 billion government deficit projected for 2021, only a sixth will come from capital expenditure. Operating expenditures continue to increase faster than investment spending, despite the recovery plan. This is all the more worrying because, over the two years 2020 and 2021, the debt will increase by 400 billion, four times the amount of the recovery plan you are proposing! There is a need for debt, which allows investment and support to the seriously affected economic sectors; There is a dangerous debt, the operating debt, which is a real time bomb. Within this public debt, you have announced that you want to contain the "covid debt" by separating it from the original debt stock. It's a bit of a modest way to forget all the rest of the debt, and it's a very critical method. Apart from political intentions, there is budgetary reality, and it does not work. Thus, like Sisyphe pushing its rock, you are regularly forced to extend the life of the Social Debt Depreciation Fund – CADES. The Court of Auditors itself believes that some EUR 50 billion should be added to the additional resources that you have allocated to it. As for your claim that the covid debt will be amortized in 2042, it makes little sense. You seem to prejudge that we are dealing with the last crisis. Yet, crises are multiplying and their frequency is increasing: from centennials, they become ten years old. You are committing considerable expenditure by basing their financing on the equally considerable increase in debt, the hypothetical increase in already strong potential growth and the disbursement of European funds whose disbursement horizon remains uncertain. Only reform can improve potential growth. And a state that no longer finances, it is a state that no longer reforms! The risk of recovery is to revive our weaknesses, our inability to control public spending. The lack of funding is staggering in terms of dependency. You are planning to create a fifth risk that you do not finance, even though the other four branches of social security are on red alert, with a deficit of 44 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u60	Nothing's funded!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u61	In other words, you add risk to the risk, at least at a time incongruous. The lack of funding is also striking in the area of local taxation. You have decided to remove the housing tax, and then to remove in part – and this is a good thing – the production taxes, the ACV and the property taxes that weigh on businesses. However, you have not put on the table real reform of local taxation. It's half-doing. To compensate for the revenue losses of the local authorities, you make a tax DIY by assigning them a share of the proceeds of value added tax – VAT – as if the State's revenue were in surplus! In reality, we are witnessing a recentralisation of local taxation which is not assured,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u62	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u63	...we keep the taxpayer away from the local citizen. And, like every year, when it comes to saving money, you turn to Action Housing, to mutuals and to chambers of commerce and industry. This becomes a fixation: all the economies of the Republic are based on these three categories of institutions! Let me say a word about taxation. You say you don't want to raise taxes in the coming years. Of which, you're right. However, as often happens, the devil hides himself in the details: in this budget, you anticipate a number of increases in the levies, although modest, but important in the eyes of those who suffer them. I am thinking of lowering the ceiling on certain affected taxes, raising taxes on electricity or increasing the car malus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u64	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u65	This budget is an illustration of the questions you haven't resolved or you didn't want to answer: economy or health? Reform or lack of reform? Centralization or decentralization? Let us come, more concretely, to the France Recovery Plan. As I indicated, I will vote for the "Relaunch Plan" mission, which is 36 billion commitment authorities, as well as for the three amending finance bills. The emergency phase is followed by a recovery phase, you proceed in the right order. But you are confusing things, knowingly, by giving the recovery plan a rather exciting aspect. This recovery plan is a little bit of a communication tool: in a clever way, you give the impression that you are going to put on the table this fall, 100 billion fresh money to revive our economy. This is a matter of language abuse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u66	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u67	I have been interested in the expenditure you have made under the three PLFRs and the expenditure you are considering in this budget and the recovery plan. I note that there are three types of expenditure: the necessary support expenditure, which will amount to 74 billion by 2022; expenditure to accelerate the 35 billion useful digital and ecological transformations; Finally, opportunistic spending, without any connection to the crisis, which will amount to a dozen billion. Among other things, there are significant salary increases for public officials, who are never conditioned by a reform of the organization of our health system or our security system. An additional €620 million will be allocated to the judiciary, and over €200 million will be allocated for class measures for second-level public education staff. You add 20 million for the Youth Culture Pass and 14 million for the creation of the Cité du théâtre. Your reasons are probably very good, except that you must, at the same time, finance rescue or survival expenses, and investment expenses to revive the economy. In your mind, crises are not only opportunities to transform, but also alibi to spend! Basically, we're wondering what your priorities are. It's all a priority! However, expenditure as such is not a reform. The figures are eloquent: between 2020 and 2021, if we neutralise the support and recovery measures linked to the crisis of the covid -19, we find that public expenditure will rise by 2.9% in volume, whereas it had increased by only about 1% on average over the last ten years. In other words, you are multiplying the rate of increase in public expenditure in volume outside the crisis by three.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u68	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u69	You take advantage of the crisis to spend on everything: your "whatever it takes" is like a flight forward. However, you should be aware that, alas, there is no immunity of our public finances from the consequences of the expenses you incur. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Moreover, the French are not mistaken: they are literally astonished to discover that the state can spend as much and that it is now possible to finance everything that it was impossible to finance six months ago! This spending budget creates more mistrust than trust, even though we needed clarification. It's a missed opportunity. From the crossroads to the impasse, there is only one step. In this moment of extreme uncertainty, the Government's words should reassure. I regret that this budget is a failure from this point of view. Ultimately, it raises more questions than it solves problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u70	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u71	Colleagues, I invite you to reject the finance bill and its associated stimulus plan. On the one hand, they are not big enough to raise our economy, to limit social damage, let alone engage in a real ecological forklift. On the other hand, they claim to care for evil by evil. Never would the covid-19 virus have reached this danger without the social virus of liberalism. It is this ideology that has pushed the production of the elements necessary for the preservation of the health of the French, especially masks and tests, out of our borders. The covid-19 would have been far less lethal if austerity policies had not ravaged our public services. Last year, the removal of hospital beds continued. This shameful record is yours. In the period after March, you refused to recruit doctors and nurses without delay, unlike what happened in Italy. You have postponed to the Social Security Financing Bill the salary increase so much demanded by the staff, and this will remain insufficient. Therefore, we are exposed to the risk of saturation in the public hospital. But this time, as we know, the personnel will not be able to achieve the same feat as in the first wave, they tell us themselves, especially since some of them, exhausted, have left. However, in this finance bill, you are proposing the same revenues: supply and competitiveness policy, lower taxes on capital, and money given to businesses without any consideration or influence. You can't say you didn't know. On March 12, Emmanuel Macron concluded his television intervention: "We will have to learn the lessons of the moment we are going through tomorrow, to examine the development model in which our world has been engaged for decades and which reveals its flaws in the open [...] What is already revealed by this pandemic is that free health without conditions of income, career or profession, our welfare state is not costs or burdens but valuable assets, essential assets when destiny strikes. What this pandemic reveals is that it is goods and services that must be placed outside of market law. » Seven months later, these beautiful words seem to be lost and lost. Do you think the situation is so good and less urgent? Do you think the public health system has even begun to heal the wounds that you and your predecessors have inflicted on him? If we refer to this finance bill, that is clearly what you believe, unless your fine words then – Emmanuel Macron's tone was almost that of a mea culpa – were only cynicism and hypocrisy, so that society, especially the world of caregivers and all those who had stayed in the front line, would not crack. Before we dissect what you're proposing, let's look at the balance sheet you're relying on. As you can see, all the lights were green when the covid-19 hit the country. I wonder why, if that were the case, Emmanuel Macron thought it necessary to draw some "lessons from the moment we are going through". In your opinion, therefore, everything was going well in February 2020: France was creating jobs thanks to your policy – and whatever if, for fourteen months, you refused, in the name of the control of health expenditures, to follow up on the demands of the caregivers you were going to find legitimate a little later. In Emmanuel Macron's words, fate had not yet struck. Is everything okay? For the richest, undeniably; for the much rich, wonderfully. In this regard, the expectations of the second report, dated 8 October, submitted by the committee for the evaluation of the reforms of the taxation of capital, a body under the aegis of France Stratégie, do not lend itself to any discussion: thanks to your tax gifts – introduction of the flat tax, abolition of the solidarity tax on capital and other measures – the richest 0.1% have earned on average an additional €86290 per year, and the most wealthy one hundred French people, 1.2 million more per year! And, in case there are still doubts about the impact of the Macron era's tax policies, the report states that the most affluent 0.1% of 2020 is a quarter of times richer than the 0.1% of 2017. Would it be because of their work? to their higher productivity? to their greater talent? No, only to the relief of taxes on capital, including dividends. The figures show that dividends distributed increased by more than 60% in 2018, and the increase continued in 2019; This increase is increasingly concentrated in the population, as the 0.1% of the wealthiest tax households receive more than two thirds of the total dividend amounts, compared to half when Emmanuel Macron came to power, and the ultra-rich – 3800 people – receive one third of the total dividend amounts compared to a fifth in 2017. As a result, the country's richest taxpayers have grown considerably, thanks to tax cuts, which have fuelled an ever greater concentration of wealth. In fact, in three years, France has married the global trend and largely filled part of its small delay in increasing inequality. In early 2020, the wealth of the 1 per cent of the world's richest people was twice as large as the accumulated wealth of 90 per cent of the population, and 2153 people had more wealth than the 60 per cent poorest. In France, seven billionaires own more than the poorest 30 per cent, and the richest 10 per cent own 50 per cent of the wealth. I know these figures are turning around, but they are the result of your policy. Hang on because others are going to follow. This dividend relief scheme is not the only gift to businesses, which also enjoy exemptions from tax credits and a reduction in corporate tax. What is the purpose of this impoverishment of the state and social accounts, since this money has a cost to the community which is calculated in tens of billions of euros? I know your answer, minister, and I have heard it hundreds of times in three years: it is about attracting or retaining capital, which itself generates investment and jobs. Except, of all this, there's no trace anywhere. Here again, I take the data from your own offices: the most optimistic study in the field of CICE grants for example to this gigantic gabegie – 20 billion a year – barely 100,000 jobs preserved since its creation, i.e. a cost of 1 million euros per job, while the boss of the Medef promised a million job creations. In October 2019, the report of the Institute of Public Policy did not see any positive impact on the use of the abolition of the ISF and the introduction of the flat tax. A year later, in more diplomatic terms, the report of the Capital Tax Reforms Evaluation Committee, which I have already mentioned, says exactly the same thing. Over the long term, there is also no impact of these gifts on employment, collective wealth or investment. In ten years, SMIC has increased by 12%, the average wage by 20%; CAC 40's business investment fell by 5%, while capital revenues exploded by more than 100%! You have impoverished people individually, you have done redistribution backwards: so the poorest decile of the population has seen its gross income increase since 2017, but decrease after tax redistribution! French taxation, if taken globally, has thus become regressive, as Thomas Piketty pointed out, and the money given to the richest does not run, or then from the bottom to the top... In addition to this individual impoverishment, there is a collective impoverishment resulting from the decline in public spending and social protection. Indeed, when the deficit rule was still a brass rule, it was necessary to take in the pocket of some what you gave to the richest... This is in particular how, in 2020, the state did not compensate the 3 billion social security exemptions in the PLFSS: how is it then surprising that the public hospital was in such a bad situation to manage the epidemic?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u72	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u73	You continue to take up the figure of 500,000 jobs created in France, agitated by Emmanuel Macron in January 2020: note that it is 10% less than what his predecessor did, knowing in addition that most of these jobs are actually CSDs or part-times, who replaced CDIs. So all this should encourage you to a little more modesty about your pre-covid balance sheet. Let's go to that PLF. You put $30 billion on the table – not the $100 billion you're beating our ears at. This is largely insufficient. While we have lost ten points of GDP, you propose to inject into the economy only the equivalent of one point, while the Germans, at the same time, inject 90 billion, which is more in a policy of demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u74	Do you like Germany now?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u75	I have never hated Germany, and when it does interesting things I observe it. In this case, it does more interesting things than we do, which means that we are at great risk of falling out economically in relation to our European partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u76	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u77	Indeed, you persist in your supply policy, which translates in particular into a distribution of money to companies without consideration. A large part of your $30 billion is a reduction in taxes on production – you yourself boasted about it just now. Not only will it be money that is going to be missing in the communities, since you intend to compensate for the decline thanks to VAT, which, in ten years, has experienced a lower increase than taxes on production...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u78	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u79	No, my colleague, I have checked the figures since the committee discussion. You are thus increasing your already massive tax losses, knowing that of the 250 billion deficits announced by the end of 2020, 135 billion are already linked to revenue losses. In addition, this money will be distributed in a totally unequal way among companies, a quarter going to the 250 largest companies, when the 285,000 smaller ones will be divided royally 125 euros each. You will finally continue to distribute unconditional money, as you did during the first PLFR, thus serving all those companies that today announce social plans, not because of the covid but because of stock market restructuring: Nokia, Bridgestone... the list is unfortunately growing. I conclude from this that the CICE did not serve you as a lesson, that you continue, to repeat the answer that Bruno Le Maire had given me here, to rely on the common sense of the entrepreneurs, including those whose only criterion of reference is the return of capitalist rent. How, at least, have not subordinated your commitment to this one condition of common sense: no public money for companies that compete while making profits! Emmanuel Macron, like Bruno Le Maire, pleaded during the confinement for the relocation of our companies. All right, but what are you doing for that? No structural reform is envisaged, while the European Union organises an internal free trade that allows Bridgestone to raise money to open up another business in Poland, as Fabien Roussel has revealed. Rather than taxation at borders, you prefer to rely on competitiveness to attract businesses, which translates into tax cuts, a less so-called fiscal and social tax that we have nothing to draw from. Doesn't Bridgestone's answer, or Sanofi's answer, which touches the CICE while abolishing research positions in France, alert you? In short, this offer policy has already cost us a lot. In terms of demand policy, the account is not there. You could at least have made a gesture in favour of the poorest of the French, whose number has exploded to the point that the People's Relief considers that the situation has never been so serious since the Second World War.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u80	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u81	But again, only 1% of the billions of euros you are about to spend will help to improve the situation of the poorest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u82	One percent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u83	Where's the RSA you had to extend to the younger ones? Where is the increase in social minima? Where is the recruitment of 300,000 young jobs? As many proposals as we will make to you in the counter-budget that we will present to you, because it is solidarity that must prevail in the times that run. Then, you are about to eliminate jobs in departments that should be at the forefront of the fight on the ecological issue. Work, finance, ecology... these three ministries are undergoing new job cuts: 947 at the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, which has already lost 3706 in the last three years! How do you want this ministry and its operators to manage the 30 billion that you supposedly will allocate to ecology, if you remove those who are theoretically charged with controlling them and investigating the files? We can bet that this policy will not be applied, unless you count on the faculties of the capitalist economy to self-regulate – to choose the means to achieve ecological objectives that in any case no one will control the realization. Thirty billion is, moreover, very little when the Institut de l'économie pour le climat estimates that it will take 50 billion a year over the next five years for France to achieve carbon neutrality. Finally, I heard, Bruno Le Maire, saying that the debt would have to be paid. I am astonished that, in the debate on the PLFRs, you were like others – Éric Woerth, in particular – less assertive, minister: the idea of not paying the stock of the debt, but only interest, was mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u84	I didn't say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u85	Paying debt means a return to austerity policies and cuts in public spending and even deregulation. This also means that, in exchange for the famous 40 billion that the European Commission would give us – let us not be mistaken about it: our allocation to Europe will actually increase by 20 billion – you will lead the promised structural reforms, including pension reform. There is no need to look for any other reason to resume this reform: it is the European Commission that imposes it on you! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and several benches of the GDR and SOC groups]] The return to austerity for most and the richer tax gifts will only lead us to fall back into the same ruts in the next crisis. That is why I urge you to reject this finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u86	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I have a request for a public vote before the FI Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u87	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Eric Coquerel uses the word austerity: austerity at 100 billion euros makes austerity expensive! This is not the most appropriate term for a stimulus plan as powerful as ours and given all that we have already disbursed. You also say that we are not doing enough and that the other European countries are doing better: but we are doing more than all the other European countries in terms of supporting the economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u88	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u89	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u90	We are the country of the euro area which has the highest proportion of employees covered by partial unemployment, with the best compensation for partial activity! Wanting no more leads nowhere. We have done our utmost and will continue to do our utmost. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The numbers you compare are those of ads, not actual disbursements. But when it comes to a finance bill, it seems to me better to focus on what has actually been disbursed by the state. Yes, Germany announced that it would provide its solidarity fund for SMEs with EUR 25 billion: it spent EUR 2.5 billion this summer. We announced $9 billion, but we actually spent $6 billion. The same goes for state-guaranteed loans: Germany announced 500 billion but disbursed 34 billion, where we announced 300 but already spent 120. The reason is simply that we have been more affected by the health crisis than Germany. Comparison is not right: let us look at the actual figures rather than the figures announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u91	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u92	Through the PLFRs we voted for, we have introduced the guaranteed loan to businesses – PGE – the solidarity fund and partial unemployment. Fortunately, at the time these PLFRs were adopted, otherwise we would still be adopting emergency measures. Let us do the same today, because adopting this motion to reject would be tantamount to calling into question all the measures planned. Better to prepare for the future by working on the recovery plan – better to paraphrase Bruno Le Maire, make the bet of regaining our level of growth in two years rather than waiting for it. The second point relates to an objective which has not been mentioned so far. Much has been said about employment, economic measures and public policies, but a general theme transcends the measures contained in the recovery plan and in the PLF: that of youth. It is indeed affected by pragmatic measures such as the young RSA, which we propose to improve by means of the young guarantee, which is a particularly effective mechanism; aid for alternance, professionalisation and the acquisition of experience. These are direct aids and concrete measures. But, above all, I refer to the cross-cutting measures linked to the ecological, energy and industrial transition, because that is what this youth demands. We must build the future of our youth; The recovery plan is the key to this future. That is why, with the finance bill, it is the basis of the cross-cutting response that we must provide to young people. It is a concrete and modern ecology that Members of the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats want, i.e. a modern transition of industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u93	We must conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u94	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] After the urgency and the revival, it is now the turn of confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u95	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u96	The Socialist and Related Group fully shares Mr Coquerel's analysis of the budget, and we will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. We too consider that the budget for 2021 and the stimulus plan that goes with it are completely unbalanced from the point of view of the relationship between supply policy and demand policy. The supply policy is far too accentuated: it is synonymous with debt and certainly, in the near future, with fiscal austerity, which will lead to the weakening of public services and the shift of many of our fellow citizens into poverty. In addition, the effects of supply policy are often shifted. They will only be felt in 2021 and 2022, when we need an emergency policy with immediate effect. A demand policy would better match the social expectations of young people and the millions of people who have fallen into poverty, as well as those of small and medium-sized enterprises that are waiting for a renewed purchasing power of consumers to complete their order books. Let me come back here to the issue of counterpart to supply policy. You are proposing a reduction in production taxes; It certainly has its virtues in terms of competitiveness-cost, but it is more about large companies and export-oriented companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u97	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u99	We are concerned about small businesses that this policy does not serve enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u100	They export too!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u101	On the other hand, the large companies affected by this tax reduction have several choices for the use of this money: either they put their cash in the water, which is a good thing; or they invest in their production tool, which is also good for medium-term employment; or they invest in wages, because human resources also matter. Only one thing to ban is the distribution of dividends. In the budget, however, nothing is done to protect us from it, which poses a real risk of turning the public debt into a dividend distribution. That is a shame, because we had proposed solutions to tax dividends, particularly via flat tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u102	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u103	Unsurprisingly, the Acting Together Group will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. As the ministers and the rapporteur-general have said, this finance bill is far too important to deprive us of a debate. Both the majority and the opposition, we have an obligation to make recovery a success. There are many expectations and time is running out. In the coming weeks, we will be discussing the first and second parts of the PLF, and I have no doubt that our discussions will enrich or even correct the provisions of the text transmitted to us by the Government. As it stands, the PLF seems to us to be a solid and balanced text. The fall in production taxes is a major measure that will give companies room for manoeuvre. For years, everyone has agreed that production taxes have seriously affected the competitiveness of our industry. This Government is the first to reduce them in these proportions, which should be stressed and welcomed. In addition to the reduction in production taxes, the first part of the PLF contains welcome measures. I cannot quote them all, but I think, for example, of schemes to support the cash flow of businesses, or of rationalising taxation by continuing to abolish small taxes and inefficient small tax niches. I am also thinking of the tax credit for the installation of charging systems for electric vehicles intended for French households. [[Applause on the benches of the group Acter ens and some benches of the group LaREM]] Of course, the text is perfect, and that is precisely why we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. We must work on the text in session to equip the country with the tools necessary for the crisis we are going through.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u104	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u105	Historically, the IDU and independent group always vote against motions for prior rejection, because we believe it is more appropriate to improve the texts by discussing them in the Chamber. This is all the more the case with the finance bill. We are talking here about France's budget: if we reject this text, in January we will have officials to pay, communities to compensate and companies eagerly waiting for their aid. It would be completely unconscious to adopt a motion to reject a text such as that. Be a little serious, ladies and gentlemen, be a little responsible, and take advantage of the weeks of review of the text to make improvements to it. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. Mrs. Lise Magnier also applauds]] The IDU and independent group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u106	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u107	I obviously support the motion to reject tabled by my colleague Éric Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u108	Surprising!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u109	Many of the arguments substantiated his demonstration and the relevance of this motion of rejection. So I will keep only one angle, namely the urgency of the situation. Minister, at least one measure – a symptomatic task – seems to me to be the political signature of this budget: it is the continuation of the abolition of the ISF. What justifies, in the current context, the continuation of this decision, which was the starting point of this legislature, while all studies show that the abolition of the ISF has had no redistributive effect; Worse, has it increased the amount of dividends paid to shareholders by more than 60%? An increase that has benefited two-thirds to 0.1% of the richest French, and even a third to 0.01%, that is to say the 3800 richest households! In short, you have continued to deepen inequalities for the benefit of the richest. From an ideological point of view, let it be a commitment that you want to respect, I hear. But in times of crisis, the French see it. And the reality – as I say as an elected representative of Seine-Saint-Denis – is that poverty is increasing: a million more people have passed below the poverty line. There is no justification for maintaining this measure, except for obstinacy. Finally, I would like to reply to you, Mr Minister, as well as to those of our colleagues who pointed out that, in general, we were criticising Germany. Yes, we disagree with the German right and Mrs Merkel's policy. But even this German right, with which we have a lot of disagreements, has adopted a plan to inject liquidity back into the economy that targets the popular categories by the reduction of VAT and the payment of 300 euros per child for each household, that is three times what you inject today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u110	Because they can afford it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u111	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let this legend cease that we would be the best in Europe or even the best in the world! Like Germany in terms of reinjection into the economy, it would not be so bad already.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u112	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u113	[[Laughs and applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, LT and IDU-I groups]] Frankly, accusing the government of pursuing a policy of austerity... On the other hand, I have repeatedly told the Government that its open bar policy was completely excessive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u114	It's after austerity comes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u115	You are raising a real problem, which is the conditionality of the aid. But, ladies and gentlemen, some of the aid is already conditional: the research tax credit, partial unemployment are not granted without conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u116	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u117	On the other hand, there are some aids which cannot be technically conditioned. Explain to us how you envisage cross-compliance in the removal of the regional share of the ACVEN!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u118	You just don't have to delete it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u119	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, UDI-I and Dem groups and a few benches of the LaREM group]] I give my tongue to the cat. But you may be a clever cat... All this to say that the Liberties and Territories Group will not vote on the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u120	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u121	[["Ah! » on the benches of the LR group]] Yes, the Communist MPs will vote on this excellent motion put forward by Éric Coquerel. The problem, minister, is not that you don't do enough, it's that you're hurting. Five hundred and seventy billion euros of public money in the support plan and in the recovery plan, and it's fired again, and it's moving around again! Hospitals, nurses, caregivers still suffer. Poverty is growing, because gas and electricity bills are increasing, but not pensions and wages.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u122	You forget about partial unemployment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u123	Five hundred and seventy billion euros! Where is the protection of the French? Where is the protection of the employees of Bridgestone, Verallia? How will the 800,000 employees you say there will be 800,000 job losses? Can you imagine the state of mind that these words bring about in the country? Everyone wonders who it's going to fall on: 800,000 job cuts, maybe it's me tomorrow! Your so-called recovery plan is not one. For, in the end, if public money is intended to finance partial unemployment, it is a good thing; If it is intended to help our TPEs and SMEs, it is also good, and we should do a little more on that side; But, for the most part, we will continue to give gifts to the richest, the multinationals, the big boxes, those who have accumulated cash, dividends, wealth and who do not participate, today, in the effort to re-establish the nation's accounts. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left cannot accede to the recovery plan and will support the motion to reject it beforehand. Your recovery plan is black – "black is black," as Johnny Hallyday said. It's depressing. We want hope!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u124	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u125	We will have the opportunity to develop them later in the general discussion, but the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group also has a lot of criticisms to make of the draft finance law, some of which join those of France that is not submitted. The main one is that the reduction in production taxes is not an emergency measure. On the contrary, it was long sought by the French employers, notably by AFEP – Association française des entreprises privés – and MEDEF – Mouvement des entreprises de France. It is a measure of long-term competitiveness, perhaps, but in no case an emergency measure. In addition, it is partly missing its target, as it is very clearly forgetting about TPEs and SMEs. For this reason, we have a lot of criticism to make, but also a lot of proposals to refine the system. The PLF is also missing its target in terms of energy and environmental transition. As you know, the EDS Group has strong ambitions in this area, particularly with regard to the conclusions of the Citizens' Climate Convention, and the content of the text is a great disappointment with the announcements made by the President of the Republic. Finally, a third disappointment concerns the social aspect. The health crisis has led to an economic crisis that has already resulted in a social crisis, with the unprecedented increase in the number of RSA beneficiaries and the shift of many people in precarious situations towards poverty. Here too, we consider that there is a lack. You have focused your action on supply policy, and you are making it clear. For our part, we believe that we need to balance the finance bill better, by including a larger demand policy, not just through partial unemployment. Some people were either not employed or no longer employed: other benefits, particularly for the most vulnerable, had to be provided. That being said, we prefer to discuss and amend this finance bill. Therefore, we will not vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u126	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u127	I'll be brief. Our country suffers; It is going through a serious health crisis, which is causing an equally serious economic crisis, which is likely to lead to a worrying social crisis. Every day, companies cry out for support. Our citizens are asking for more solidarity at this difficult time and our economic model needs to be supported in order to meet the objectives of ecological transition. With this motion of rejection, my dear colleague, you make a choice, that of leaving companies alone in the face of the crisis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u128	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u129	... to suspend national solidarity and slow down the ecological transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u130	What a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u131	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As we find ourselves today, and for the following weeks, faced with an immense responsibility, you choose, with this motion, to look away. The La République en marche group, which makes a different choice, that of assuming its responsibility, will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u132	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u133	The Group of the European People's Party will not vote in favour of the motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by La France insoumée, because the speech made by Mr Coquerel is not likely to restore the confidence that our country needs, both in health and in economic and social terms. This finance bill itself is stifled by obstacles to confidence-building in a period of high fiscal volatility. Indeed, as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance has pointed out, we lack visibility and transparency in terms of the amount of appropriations actually allocated to the future and the recovery. Moreover, as the crisis persists, this draft budget gives the feeling that it will end up emptying the shelves of a supermarket that is already almost empty. I do not question your choice to display the investment as a priority; What bothers me rather is the feeling that you are making a burst of cash, without carrying out any fundamental reforms. First of all, the Government's macroeconomic forecasts for 2021 seem far too optimistic. Secondly, while demand support, including business support, is weak, your forecasts of strong investment growth seem to give way to a voluntarist illusion. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, as I said, this draft budget represents another missed opportunity to reform the state in depth. However, the crisis and the revival cannot justify the abandonment of this substantive work, which is evident in the choice not to reduce the number of public officials, in the absence of a review, for lack of will, of the financial architecture of relations with the communities, and in the oblivion of necessary investments, especially in prisons, as our country is undergoing an unprecedented security crisis. In other words, the effectiveness of this finance bill is not guaranteed, as we will see in the debates that will follow, and the cost of this illusion of efficiency, paid on credit, will be borne by future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u135	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u136	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 85 Number of votes cast 85 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 12 Against 73
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u137	Before proceeding with the general discussion, I should like to inform you that, at the request of the Government, pursuant to Rule 95(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the discussion of Articles 3 and 4 and the amendments to the Additional Rule after those Articles are reserved. It will take place on Thursday, 15 October, from 9 a.m. Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u138	The context within which this recovery plan is set is a source of vertigo: the drop in gross domestic product is estimated at 10 per cent, which is the worst recession that the country has experienced since the Second World War; the government deficit is about 10%, too; government debt is expected to reach 117 % of GDP at the end of the year. I welcome the extraordinary reactivity of the Government and the administration since the spring, which has helped to amortize the shock. Millions of employees were able to benefit from the partial activity and thus maintain their purchasing power. More than 500,000 companies, especially the smaller ones, have benefited from State-guaranteed loans. More than 1.5 million self-employed people have benefited from the Solidarity Fund. This is how France's entrepreneurial heritage has been preserved. We welcome the decisions taken in recent days to extend and expand access to support mechanisms, which once again demonstrate the will of the majority and the Government to respond to the plight of front-line sectors, as the epidemic returns. After the rescue comes the time of recovery. The France Recovery Plan is an anti-licensing shield,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u139	You'll tell Bridgestone's employees!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u140	...anti-bankruptcy, and anti-delocalization. Once this finance bill has been passed, France's companies will be able to rely on the reduction of production taxes, on the mechanisms for strengthening own funds and on the hiring premium to invest, recruit and relocate. France's recovery is also a major step forward towards a greener and more sustainable economy: massive credits are available for energy renewal, for the decarbonisation of transport and for the development of a more virtuous agriculture and a healthier diet. The President of the Republic and the Government have been able to find the right balance to meet both the needs of the urgency, that is, the safeguarding of employment, and the imperatives of the future, that is, the transformation of our economic and social model. All our efforts will be futile, however, if trust does not return. Uncertainty is a powerful anesthetic that paralyses the economic initiative. For confidence to progress, the virus must regress. Neither the major speeches in the rostrum of this House, nor the articles of this text, nor our amendments will suffice. It all depends on the responsibility of everyone: we must respect the gestures of barriers, the social distancing, the health instructions. Every French citizen holds the key to the success of the France Recovery Plan. Members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats will obviously support this text, while proposing some improvements that I will let my colleagues Jean-Paul Mattei and Pascale Fontenel-Person present in detail. Our vigilance will focus on three points. First of all, we will see to it that the execution is carried out. As the Prime Minister pointed out in his general policy statement, the laws that we are voting on and the decrees that the Government is promulgating "are lost in sinuous and opaque meanderings, to the point of affecting the daily lives of our fellow citizens only in a distant, uncertain and often misunderstood manner". We cannot afford such luxury in this context. France Recovery should be administered as close to the ground as possible. Parliamentarians, in order to be the transmission belts, must be involved and informed as soon as appropriations are made available. We hope that the Government will give the Prefects very clear instructions to ensure this. We will then ensure that this recovery plan is evaluated. The increase in debt and deficit makes sense only if the public money thus mobilized is used properly. We welcome the first draft of the Green Budget, which will now allow us to verify, year after year, that the evolution of our public finances is in line with our environmental commitments. We also welcome the development of the LexImpact tool, enriched this year by the analysis of state endowments. Our work in the Finance Committee has shown how valuable such a tool would have been to inform our debates on production taxes. Finally, we will pay attention to the fact that France's recovery leaves no one on the edge of the road. This morning, the Economic Analysis Council published a remarkable piece of work that illustrates what we are all seeing in our constituencies: despite the resumption of consumption, despite the billions of euros of accumulated savings, the most modest French people are picking up. They have not only reduced their consumption, but also plucked on their reserves to cope with the crisis, and continue to do so. For self-employed people who point to the RSA for the first time, for students who do not find a small job, for precarious families, we need to find solutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u142	Finally, the Members of our group will ensure that, at a time when the public authorities assume all their responsibilities, companies also take their own responsibility and move resolutely towards a better sharing of value, a fairer and more equal governance and a sustainable reduction of their broadcasts. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups]] That is what we believe in, and what we defend, in order to make France a success for all the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u143	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u144	If, as every year, we meet this autumn to discuss France's economic, fiscal and fiscal prospects, this debate has the particularity of being at the heart of a health crisis that is far from over and whose economic and social consequences are far from known. It is therefore – and only that – that should be discussed and, above all, that should inspire you to seek as broad a consensus as possible. However, that is not the choice you have made, Minister Delegate. Of the thirty-one items that will occupy us until the end of the week, none have been built in direct connection with the crisis, with the exception of the introductory article, which sets out the forecast of the budget balance, and Article 22, which provides for the reduction of local government revenues. It's not very serious. The Government would have had every interest in bringing this bill into line with the presentation given by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery in his intervention, but that was not the case. We know very well that only the texts actually voted count, and that speeches have a reality only if they are found in the law. You lower production taxes, by succeeding in finding more winning companies to this measure, in your calculations, than there are in France. I'm stuck with it! Thus, while, according to INSEE, France has 5722 mid-size companies, you announce that 8939 will be winners. Deputy Minister, I am waiting for you to explain this trick; It looks like a miracle. Moreover, contrary to what you say, you are increasing taxes, in this finance bill for 2021. By summarising, in a simple Excel file, the amounts foreseen in your evaluations, it appears that you are increasing them by 200 million euros for 2021 and by more than 800 million euros for 2022 – this, I repeat, by simply adding up the evaluations of the Government itself. Of course, on this increase, you don't say much. Contrary also to what you say, you also puncture the proceeds of the affected taxes, lowering their ceilings. In concrete terms, if the yield of an affected tax is higher than the ceiling you want to set in the law, the difference between the two will abound the state budget. With such a system, some €180 million of the proceeds of the affected taxes will go under the nose of those who should have benefited from it. As you rarely talk about the crisis in the sections of this finance bill, I would like to say a few words about it. With regard to the overall outlook, the INSEE publication of 6 October reveals two major developments, which your draft finance bill does not take into account – and for cause these figures appeared after its presentation. First, the growth trend would be 0% in the fourth quarter of 2020, when you were hit by a recovery. Secondly, in the fourth quarter of 2020, the trend in consumption expenditure by French households would be negative, falling by 1% from the level in the third quarter of 2020, when you were talking about a recovery in consumption. In addition to Rhin, Germany is not affected by either of these developments: economic activity continues to resume in the fourth quarter and consumption remains boosted by the three-point reduction in VAT, decided in the framework of its recovery plan presented in June 2020. Germany acted quickly. She has even acted against her DNA: she rarely devotes public money to support the demand. On this point, Minister Delegate, I hope that you will have the intellectual honesty to acknowledge that we have alerted you to every budget debate since March. I am all the more comfortable to do so again because we voted for the first two PLFRs, when you did not listen to us on this point. I persist in saying that a real recovery plan works on two legs: supply and demand. I know you are refusing this debate, but it does exist. Then you should plan more targeted actions. In an interview with the daily Les Échos, the rapporteur-general referred to a "K" resumption. I share his analysis: some sectors are resuming, while others are sinking. Again, Minister Delegate, it would have been more relevant for you to have more public money, by sector, on a quasi-surgical basis. Among the companies forgotten by your PLF are the TPEs and SMEs, especially those with more than 20 employees and are therefore not eligible for the Solidarity Fund. For them, it is often a question of survival: for some, we ask you to cancel certain debts, especially those related to the epidemic of covid -19. It would also be necessary for you to copy the public order. In the public works sector, for example, the number of tenders is down by 40%. This means that, in two months' time, the order book of the companies in the sector will undergo the same evolution. Finally, and perhaps the most serious one, you are stalemate on youth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u145	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u146	Yes, ladies and gentlemen! What do you say to a student who lost the little job she was in a bar or restaurant to pay for her education, who finished school, who is not hired and who is not eligible for the RSA?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u147	And who is not eligible for unemployment either!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u148	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] What are you telling her, when she doesn't have the right to unemployment? What's she got to do? It's irresponsible. It would be time to open the right to the RSA to young people, at least for the year 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u149	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u150	We are gathered here, as every year, to review the Government's finance bill. This is always a particular moment, feared or expected by parliamentarians, who are embarking on a budget marathon of almost three months. This year, however, the PLF is of particular importance, while the health crisis has led to an unprecedented economic crisis. The macroeconomic context in which we are looking at this PLF is both very deteriorated and particularly uncertain. In 2020 and 2021, public accounts will be worse off than ever before, when the public deficit reached its lowest level in 2019 since 2001. The debt-to-GDP ratio, which had stabilized, will reach 116.5% in 2021, which must ask us about the sustainability of our public debt. We are now caught between spending that is increasing sharply and revenue that is decreasing at the same time. It is therefore our collective responsibility to ask ourselves what direction we wish to give to the evolution of our public finances in order to maintain an acceptable level of debt. A reform of the functioning of the State will, we believe, be indispensable. In this unprecedented context, the 2021 budget must be exceptional because it is the legislative vehicle that incorporates the measures announced in the recovery plan. Members of the majority, members of the opposition and the Government, we are all bound by the same imperative: the success of the recovery plan, which will require clarity: clarity of the measures proposed to support companies, clarity of the interlocutors to whom this plan can address, clarity of the strategy deployed to enable our economy to recover while preparing for the challenges of tomorrow. In this sense, the reduction in production taxes, the Government's main perennial measure in this bill, is a clear and very positive signal to French companies and therefore to French employees. For when we support companies, it is above all the employees and their jobs that we support. Of course, we would have preferred that the Prime Minister wait for the national representation to review this text before concluding a pact with the regions, but the fall in production taxes is a sea snake to which this government has had the courage to attack. This decline will restore oxygen to industrial enterprises, in particular, which have been subject to much higher production taxes for years than anywhere else in Europe. And let us not fall into the trap of conditionality, ladies and gentlemen! At a time when social plans are increasing in our employment areas, and the list is unfortunately expected to grow even longer, the priority is to save jobs and thus French companies. This flagship measure must not, however, make us forget the very precarious situation of traders, artisans and farmers. The creation of 100 properties to revitalize businesses and the support measures for the digital and ecological transition are, of course, in the right direction. The Group of the European People's Party will defend amendments to supplement these arrangements and further reduce the tax burden on these activities, which fully contribute to the economic life of the territories. For the recovery will pass through the territories. To say this is to make the simple observation that the EUR 100 billion announced must become a reality for economic actors, local authorities and citizens. Announcement effects are always dangerous because they create an expectation that must be met. This budget must therefore be a flexible and intelligent tool for converting announcements into deeds. In order to do so, companies must have clear information on the aid to which they are entitled or on the calls for projects on which they can apply. The online website planderelance.gouv.fr provides centralized information to the various players involved in the recovery: individuals, businesses, administrations and local and regional authorities. This is an excellent initiative because the logic of the one-stop shop is relevant. It must therefore also exist at the heart of the territories. In addition to the triptych of local elected officials, prefects and parliamentarians – to which we very much believe – we are convinced that the consular chambers will have a major role to play. Halfway between companies and the administration, they are a privileged interlocutor for the former. But their work will not prosper if their allocated resources continue to decline. Mr Deputé, the rapporteur-general, you know our differences on this point. We are therefore pleased that an agreement has been reached with the KICs. They have shown their usefulness and effectiveness by being with companies since the beginning of the crisis; We must give them the means to continue this mission. Finally, the Government is continuing the effort to simplify the French tax system. We welcome the abolition of several low-yield taxes provided for in Article 16 of this bill, supplemented by the amendments proposed by our rapporteur-general and adopted in the Finance Committee. Similarly, the abolition of inefficient tax expenditures is a response to the need to streamline existing tax systems. Deputy Minister, you are therefore taking on a stimulus through innovation and investment, and we fully support you in this direction. However, this supply-side stimulus is not exclusive to demand-driven stimulus. On this point, I would like first of all to recall that the Government has done a great deal, at the height of the crisis, to preserve households: the most protective partial system of activity in the world, effective mechanisms to support the self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, measures for the benefit of students and the most precarious. Let me also welcome the new support measures announced last Thursday for companies in the tourism and event sector, which are in great need of them. These support measures are being extended and new measures are being put in place for our most vulnerable citizens, as we will have an opportunity to discuss them when we look at the second part of the PLF. [[Applause on a few benches of the Action ens group]] Let us not forget that the recovery will also go through households. Several measures to support individual investment are included in this bill, but I want to emphasize the urgent need to effectively open access to the MaPrimeRenov' system to taxpayers in the ninth and tenth deciles. On this point, I am convinced that we must go further, working in good intelligence. We will be defending amendments in this direction, because we must, more than ever, strongly accompany the renovation of housing in our country. Finally, I would like to conclude my speech with a subject that is of particular interest to the Group of the European People's Party. You announced, Minister Delegate, that there would be no increase in taxes, both on businesses and on households, in Budget 2021. It was a strong and indispensable announcement to reconnect with investor and consumer confidence. In fact, the budget you are proposing is in line with these announcements, except on one point: taxation on unleaded petrol 95-ethanol 10. As you know: members of our group have always promised to have a constructive approach by providing their support to the Government while at the same time making a difference in matters that they do not think are desirable. The increase in taxation on this fuel, provided for in section 15 of the Finance Bill, is a mistake. We are telling you in complete transparency, because the silence would betray our constructive DNA. As the social context is tense, as a growing precariousness awaits our fellow citizens, you cannot increase the tax on the French's preferred essence. This measure cannot be understood because it is in complete contradiction with your commitments. We really hope to be heard on this point. [[Applause on the banks of the Agir ens group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Action Together Group, which will, of course, be a proposal force throughout this week, welcomes the transposition into this 2021 finance bill of the measures announced in the recovery plan and will, as usual, stand alongside the Government to enrich the text and promote the success of the recovery. This is not a choice but an imperative for all of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u151	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u152	The 2021 finance bill is not a budget like any other: it is a crisis budget. We are indeed going through a health, economic and social crisis. But this budget must also be a defiant budget so that tomorrow we can get out of this crisis from the top. The health crisis of the coronavirus has led to a major economic crisis, leading to a drop in GDP that we estimate to be around 10% by 2020. Household consumption would fall by almost 8 per cent and business investment by almost 24 per cent. This crisis therefore leads to a decline in the revenues of the State, businesses and local authorities. No economic actor is spared. This health crisis persists while no second-wave scenario is mentioned in this budget. The government deficit will rise to EUR 227 billion, which represents about 10% of GDP, and will continue to reach 161 billion next year, despite an expected rebound in growth of about 8%. Debt will rise to 2620 billion in 2020 and 2800 billion in 2021. Nevertheless, the state finances itself much more advantageously than during the financial crisis, thanks to the negative rates resulting from the European Central Bank's very accommodative monetary policy – but until when will this last? The aim of the PLF is to support the France Recovery Plan, in order to restore the economy by 2030. Nevertheless, public debt today amounts to an alarming, if not historic, level of 117.5% of GDP. The President of the Republic rightly said, at the beginning of his term of office, "debt is tax squared". I am concerned today that this maxim does not systematically guide us in our decision-making. Bercy persists and assures us: there will be no tax increases – at least during this quinquennium. But showing responsibility and political will also means not losing sight of the balance of our public finances. We must therefore be able to go beyond the only prospect of a cyclical recovery. In other words, our challenge is not to provide answers to our problems today: it is already to respond to those of tomorrow. Indeed, stimulus spending is necessary, and we are fully supportive of it. But we must also, for the French, be vigilant and cautious, so as not to sacrifice future generations. A responsible budget is a realistic and coherent budget, which is long-term and provides for lasting structural reforms. It must, above all, be a sincere budget. A few remarks about production taxes: in order to boost the competitiveness of enterprises, you are planning a reduction of about 10 billion euros, by reducing the contribution on the value added of enterprises by half, by re-evaluating the accounting method used to calculate the property contribution of enterprises and by lowering the ceiling rate of the territorial economic contribution from 3 % to 2 %. We welcome this measure because, in a country where the tax burden is still so high, our businesses need it. However, the question of financial compensation also arises in terms of the issues of fiscal autonomy of local and regional authorities. Indeed, even if the State's compensation to municipalities and intercommunalities will take account of the evolution of rental values, the tax rate applied by the State to calculate the compensation will remain fixed. It has yet to be determined in the course of our discussions. Local and regional authorities will always be able to raise the rate on the tax actually paid by the company, but they will lose their hands on the tax, which is a fictitious one, paid by the State. In concrete terms, we must ensure that the neutralisation mechanism guarantees a dynamic and lasting financial compensation, which takes account of the evolution of the bases and the rates voted by the elected representatives. In other words, modulation of revenue leverage alone cannot be a long-term measure. In the last PLFR, the third, we were already concerned about the situation of local authorities, who were left very affected by the crisis because of the decrease in their tax revenues coupled with the increase in their social expenditure. Compensating for losses must therefore remain our primary concern. On the other hand, we need to be attentive and to support each of the municipalities, which are already so worried about their future. In June 2020, I have already alerted the Government to the amount of the allocations to compensate for the revenue losses of the municipalities, provided for in the third law on amending finance, in particular for the municipalities whose revenues are linked to casinos – especially in the Vosges territory, in Bussang and Gérardmer as well as in Plumbières-les-Bains. To date, my mail has remained unanswered:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u153	It's not normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u154	...Mr. Deputy Minister, I am counting on you and your services to get a serious and prompt response on these specific points. With regard to our companies, I am convinced that building the 2030 France cannot be done without a clear positioning on sectors of the future, necessary to recreate value in France and strengthen tomorrow's growth relays. The IDU and independent group wants to go even further in the recovery. Indeed, in order to recreate the conditions for sustainable growth with high content in non-relocable French jobs, only the path of a massive reduction in social contributions on labour can be taken: it would send a clear, understandable and positive signal to restore the confidence that our country needs. This reduction in charges must be financed by the creation of an industrial rebound VAT: this is the subject of one of the amendments we have tabled. Increasing VAT on goods imported from countries outside the European Union while lowering the cost of labour in France will greatly favour local goods and services: Sweden, Denmark and Germany, three countries with which the Government often compares France, have already successfully experienced this approach. The measure could be financed by a gradual increase in VAT, which will not have an impact on the tariff for the purchase of domestic goods and services. "Industrial rebound" VAT would therefore send a very strong economic signal to revive hirings, the first beneficiaries of which would be the younger generations of workers, and those entering the labour market without any real possibility of integrating the workforce of prudent companies that had chosen to freeze hirings. In this way, the new recipe can be used to create employment, which is particularly necessary in this period of crisis. Of course, this is an opportunity; You have also stressed this, pointing out that the recovery gives rise to a momentum which everyone must seize and that their appropriation must be facilitated by a shock of simplification. In the same vein, we have tabled an amendment aimed at breaking the chains of economic contamination by removing the privileges of public creditors, such as the Treasury and social organizations, in the order of payment of creditors, so that they are not paid before the suppliers. This would avoid cascading reorganizations and liquidations. This salutary effort must be made by the Government, as it will save many businesses. Employees' salaries will continue to be paid as a matter of priority, but the removal of the privileges of public creditors will improve the level of reimbursement of suppliers. Another measure we believe is essential to save the TPEs and SMEs and avoid destruction, while reinvigorating the investment of companies today strangled by a mountain of debts: the transformation of state-guaranteed loans to companies into "covid recovery" bonds, thanks to popular savings. Last September, I introduced a bill to that effect. Indeed, the EMPs that companies have to repay from next year can represent up to six times their annual net income: as long as this colossal debt continues to threaten them, they will not invest and fear for their survival, fluctuating the entire economic system. We therefore propose to transform the EMPs into long-term bonds called "covid recovery": they would then become quasi-equity funds, repayable over fifteen or twenty years, and could be redeemed by the popular savings of the French with interests far more remunerative than those of Book A. But much more offensive support measures are essential for the present economy. The hospitality, culture, tourism and catering sectors were among the most affected during the covid-19 crisis, and despite support measures, the administrative closures imposed on them destroyed their cash flow and turnover. The IDU and independent group defends the proposal of Pascal Brindeau, Member of Parliament for the Loir-et-Cher, to introduce a reduced VAT rate of 5.5% for all commercial activities in the hotel, catering, coffee and bar sectors until the end of 2020. Easy to apply, this measure would boost the profitability of these companies in the short term and save thousands of jobs. Finally, it is important to integrate social justice measures, which would allow for a better distribution of wealth while responding to an urgent need for funding, in many areas. I am thinking of the tax on financial transactions, whose base should be rethought and expanded to ensure a better return. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Our group is awaiting clarification on the first part of the finance bill. He hoped that the strong measures he had worked on would be taken up again. The budget must bring visibility and fiscal stability, which is why we are defending a recovery through strong and legible measures that will allow us to have a long-term vision of rebalancing our public finances. Deputy Minister, even in an uncertain world, even in the world in which we live, it is also to foresee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u155	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u156	In 1974 Helmut Schmidt said: "Today's profits are tomorrow's investments, and the jobs the day after tomorrow. Already anachronistic nearly fifty years ago, this dogma – that's what it is – has become perfectly overstated in the context of the exceptional crisis that we are experiencing. Indeed, on the highway well marked by Schmidt, how can we not see that big companies still take the exit "profits" – at this moment more than ever? The figures, which my colleague Éric Coquerel mentioned, are in support: dividends up 62% from 2017 to 2018, even more so in 2019, for an ever smaller number of privileged people. On the other hand, according to France Strategy's recent report, investments remain on the sidelines. Mass unemployment persists; growth remains sluggish; continued deindustrialization, such as the precarization of the tertiary sector; Public services are dislocating and our environment is deteriorating. In addition, half a million more poor people have been living in poverty since the beginning of the quinquennium. This landscape, devastated by your politics and all the others, carried out for decades, is the land on which, colleagues, thrives the current crisis of the Covid-19, which increases and highlights the gaping flaws of your neoliberal model. We would have liked to believe that the worst recession in our recent history would have caused you a little bit to lose your eyes – I remember the Keynesian accents of our president saying that it is "goods and services that must be placed outside the laws of the market", and that "the state will pay". Of course, public finances have been heavily mobilised to mitigate the effects of the crisis and to encourage the revival of activity: more than 490 billion euros, including amending finance laws. In addition, we welcome the positive emergency measures, such as the creation of an inter-firm solidarity fund – which you are fortunately increasing in volume and extending its beneficiaries, that has not escaped me – or the public funding of partial unemployment. Admittedly, the idea of planning is also progressing in the minds of private actors in the face of uncertainty. However, it's not enough to jump like a cabrier shouting: "Relaunch, restart, restart! For out of the 100 billion cleared everywhere, only 50 billion will be disbursed in 2021, of which just 10 will be disbursed in 2020. Of the remaining 40 billion, 10 billion will be used by businesses: there will therefore remain just 30 billion, or 1% of GDP, to cope with a ten-point recession! Germanophiles with variable geometry, yet you could have drawn inspiration from our neighbours, who spend almost three times as much. But after hearing the words of Bruno Le Maire, who is not present, it is the nature of the expenditure, even more so than its volume, that limits it to irrational. While the economic horizon remains uncertain and health measures vary from week to week, from country to country, from region to region, any supply policy is null and void. Moreover, why would companies invest today, even though they did not do so yesterday? Thus, the famous reduction of 10 billion production taxes is null and void, especially since it is already known that a quarter of this sum will benefit 280 of the most polluting companies, and will only help the smallest to the tune of 125 euros, not to mention the loss of profits for the regions. What a huge amount of money, therefore, while at the same time we only allocate a meagre billion for the relocation of our strategic sectors – and I am not even talking about the pseudo-ecological aspect, to which the recovery plan grants 6.6 billion, when it would take 50 a year to achieve carbon neutrality. In fact, you maintain all the tax niches related to fossil fuels, especially with regard to the fuel of cargo, heavy goods vehicles, aircraft and SUV vehicles – sport utility vehicles. You also refuse to introduce a tax on nitrogen fertilizers, to which we owe already the tragedies of AZF, Lubrizol, and Beirut. Finally, you remove 947 full-time equivalents from the Ministry of Ecological Transition, all jobs that will be lacking the consistency of your sprinkler. Anyway! Besides the foreseeable inefficiency of your recovery, green or not, and waiting for jobs – uncertain – the day after tomorrow as Godot is expected, what of the social emergency? An obole of 800 million for the most precarious of our fellow citizens; 1 euro rather than 3 for the student scholarship meal. While the number of beneficiaries of food aid increased by 25% with the covid, 100 euros of school allowances for families were dropped. It is miserable, it is grotesque, I would say almost indecent and insulting, when it would have been enough for a 7 billion plan to stop the great poverty in our country, 30 billion to eradicate poverty. You could have, at least, again, directed your eyes off-Rhin. Among other measures, Germany supports purchasing power by reducing VAT on basic necessities. You have refused in committee to follow this example, on behalf of Europe. You have also told me, Mr rapporteur-general, that a reduction in VAT would increase not the purchasing power of the French, but the margins of companies. Is this not to say that private actors, if they are not forced, seek their profit first and foremost, and that they must therefore be forced to do so? When I hear the Government welcome the control of our public spending, I am thinking of those doctors from Molière who see bleeding as the only remedy for all ills: for you, reducing public revenues in order to revive the activity by reducing the famous tax burden and releasing the energies, that is, those of the privileged only. This downward trend, however, is not so much a response to the need for a recovery as to the Brussels requirements, which you were not even able to comply with last year. This trajectory is, moreover, as whimsical as it is harmful. You base it on forecasts of recovery, to say the least optimistic, which you do not believe yourself. Even the President of the European Central Bank, Christine Lagarde, no longer believes in the fable of a forthcoming rebound! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Therefore, this trajectory is absurd. It deprives our fellow citizens of essential public services in the fields of health, education, research, security and justice, while necessarily leading to an increase in poverty, without even saving the SMEs you claim to defend. Whatever your semantic juggleries, you will not cut any extra expenses unless you decide to let the patient die or to asphyxiate him under the burden of debt, which must be repaid, as you say. Austerity will therefore not be limited to the duration of this plan: it will be the horizon, the future. Welcome to the youth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u157	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u158	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u159	We live in times of great uncertainty. This has been reflected in the three amending finance bills that we have passed over the past six months, before we look at a fourth in a few weeks. It is in this climate of health, economic, fiscal and geopolitical instability that we must take decisions to protect public health, our economy, our jobs and our social model, while accelerating the transitions that will bring about tomorrow's growth. Unfortunately, we are addressing this challenge, the scale of which I am measuring, with at least two handicaps. The first is the forecast of decline for 2020. The Government estimates the recession at 10 per cent of GDP: a slightly worse figure than the 11 per cent you advanced in June, but we remain in the fog. For 2021, you expect a rebound of 8%. If the High Council of Public Finance considers these projections to be appropriate, I would like, for my part, to stress their fragility, especially since the recovery loses strength as the covid-19 begins to spread again. The hypothesis of a recovery in V is already ruled out; Some economists consider that the improvement expected in the fourth quarter will not take place. The Government is therefore planning an absolutely unprecedented deficit for more than 70 years: 10.2 per cent of GDP in 2020 and 6.7 per cent in 2021. The second handicap is the persistence of a large structural deficit. In this regard, we have long left the path laid out by the law of 22 January 2018 on public finance programming. According to the Government's forecasts, the structural deficit would be between 2021 and 3.6 per cent of GDP; rather, it would be 4.8 per cent if the economic slowdown and the reduction in potential GDP were taken into account. In other words, you have chosen not to reduce this deficit in good economic times, which puts us in a difficult position to cope with the storm. As for the figure of 1.2 percentage points of GDP of structural deficit for 2020, the High Council's opinion explains very well: revenues collapsed faster than expenditure, which was partly identified as short-term measures. It is therefore a simple mechanical effect, or even a set of accounting writings. At this time of open budget, I know that my arguments will hardly be heard,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u160	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u161	... but this policy results in the explosion of our public debt, which, by the end of 2021, would reach 117.5 points of GDP, perhaps 120: we are no longer close to that. In any event, the Government's scenario places the public debt in 2021 22 points above the projections of the programming law, i.e. close to 500 billion euros of difference. If you bring this amount back to the 30 million French people active, because the public debt is repaid by those who create wealth, this amounts to an increase of 17000 euros in debt per asset – more than the annual income of an employee paid to the SMIC. [[Smile]] The French know this, Mr Le Maire repeated it himself: a debt must be repaid. In fact, it seems that this is a revolutionary statement. I therefore remain cautious before a government that announces that it wants to finance the recovery, and therefore the increase in debt, through growth. In view of the uncertainties that lie with us, I believe that a policy of support, recovery and structural economies must be pursued at the same time. In addition, the fiscal autonomy of communities is being undermined by this finance bill. The Libertés et Territoires Group considers that a sustainable recovery of growth implies, above all, the return of confidence on the part of all economic actors: households, businesses and local and regional authorities. Is the recovery plan likely to restore that confidence? The reduction of 10 billion per year in production taxes is your flagship measure; She's going in the right direction. A flat, however, is not a stimulus, but a measure of competitiveness. On the other hand, with regard to compensation to local authorities – a central issue for our group, which defends their fiscal autonomy – we are reliving the episode of the abolition of the housing tax. Although the Prime Minister rehearses the word "territories," he is in line with his predecessors by reducing a little more the fiscal autonomy of these communities, which are yet an engine of economic development. The girondin and especially the Tocquevillien that I am condemned this continuous weakening of decentralization. Today, you are increasingly funding communities through the endowments of a failed Hegelian state, in order to better hold and compel them. Communities cannot be told to assume more responsibilities and competencies without providing them with real tax revenues, which guarantee them a genuine decision-making capacity and, above all, provide a direct link between the citizen, voter and taxpayer, and his local elected representatives. In view of their role as a public investor, they must maintain their fiscal flexibility in order to adapt their support mechanisms to the economy and to respond, as closely as possible, to the needs of our fellow citizens faced with the increase in unemployment. Like many others, our group has opposed a new 100 million euro drain on the network of chambers of commerce and industry. I hope and look forward to seeing the abolition of this levy, adopted by an overwhelming majority in committee, confirmed at the sitting. Minister Delegate, France needs its intermediate bodies: stop weakening them! In fact, according to my second bureau, you should propose an amendment to that effect, having understood that we should not overemphasize. Indeed, if it is a lesson to learn from the crisis of yellow vests, then from the health crisis, it is indeed the failure of the vertical and monolithic practice of power. Let us return to the reduction of production taxes, this time from the point of view of companies. With €72 billion collected in 2018, production taxes and taxes in France are double the average of European countries, seven times as high as in Germany. Again, the aim of this decline is to improve the competitiveness of our enterprises; But as you go into the details, we note that you're focusing on the big companies. Is this choice not lacking in part, not necessarily supporting the right sectors? We are also concerned that the elimination of half of the revenue from the value added contribution of enterprises and the reduction in the cap on the territorial economic contribution are mainly beneficial to large groups, and very little to SMEs. While much of the resources deployed are devoted to supporting businesses, our group regrets the lack of a more constructed social component in the 2021 finance bill. We welcome, after supporting it, the partial unemployment scheme, which has provided a safety net for many employees. Similarly, we welcome measures to support young people towards employment. However, it must be noted that those in precarious, acting, CDD jobs whose contracts have not been renewed and who have found themselves unemployed, even though they have not all contributed sufficiently to receive an allowance, are completely absent from the economic and social measures provided for in this text. The health crisis is continuing and the social crisis is growing. As a result, departments are seeing an explosion in the number of requests for active solidarity income: to date, the increase is in the order of 7 per cent for 2020 and, at the last score, 1.9 million households receive it. Our group is also asking that this figure, which dates back to March, be updated quickly, because the foreseeable increase in unemployment in the coming months will inexorably lead to that of the number of beneficiaries of the RSA. The associated expenditure should, beyond a certain level, be given priority by national solidarity and be borne by the State. Moreover, while the crisis of the covid-19 has impoverished part of the French population, each day more dependent on solidarity networks, associations and reception structures are included in this recovery plan for only EUR 200 million. Why such a choice? Members of the Liberties and Territories Group are convinced that the 2021 budget must reconcile economic ambition with ecological and social imperatives. Its environmental dimension is certainly a step forward from previous years, but I would not go so far as to talk about "no giants". The extension of the MaPrimeRenov' scheme to landlords and condominiums, for example, meets a long-standing demand from our group. However, in order to get in motion, the players involved in energy renewal need stability and visibility as regards all aid schemes: this is not yet the case, since the additional 2 billion are only planned for the next two years. As for the agricultural aspect, it is quite inadequate. Situations vary greatly depending on the land and the sectors, but at a time when our farmers are facing increasing demands for quality, respect for biodiversity and reduction of their environmental impact, it is necessary to support and support them. It is in a constructive spirit that we approach the examination of this budget: the state of the country commands it. We will therefore propose, both first and second, a series of improvements aimed at filling the numerous holes in the snowshoe. On the other hand, you will understand that in its present state, in view of the criticisms I have raised and the lack of a response to our many proposals, our group will not be able to vote in favour of the 2021 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u162	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u163	I had a dream.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u164	Martin Luther King: "I have a dream"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u165	Not a nightmare, a dream. The crisis hit the world, our country – that was reality. A very liberal government had very poorly managed the first wave; A new government had just been appointed. And there, thundering in a serene sky: the new Prime Minister took over the business, completely reoriented the hundreds of billions of euros of public money mobilized in the face of the crisis, called for the mobilization of the entire nation, including the richest, setting out a clear priority: "It is not for the French to pay for this double health and economic crisis: we will be at their side. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u166	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u167	In short, a radical change! In my dream, a public news channel reported on the speech of the Minister of Economy and Finance – who was not you, Mr.Dussopt – on his recovery plan. For the first time in a long time, I heard only good news on the radio. Imagine the change: finally positive waves, reasons to have confidence, hope! I mean, we felt protected for good! Imagine, listen to this change in policy that still warms my heart. At the hospital, first of all, this new government was finally going to create 10,000 beds, reopen the emergency services closed in the last two years; He also decided to triple the number of resuscitation beds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u168	What a miracle!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u169	All third-year nursing students were hired, assigned to hospitals and EHPADs. Health workers' salaries increased by 300 euros, as they have been demanding for years. Following the adoption, a few weeks earlier, of a Communist MPs' bill, each pharmacy issued masks free of charge on presentation of the Vitale card.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u170	It's a dream!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u171	Cherrying on the cake, the Parisians learned of the reopening of the Val-de-Grâce army training hospital, closed since 2016, which would allow the emergency services of Île-de-France to be de-congested. What a relief! What a change!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u172	You mustn't wake up!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u173	In this dream, the government of change decided to empower the school, faced with the thousands of students who have been out of school since last March. In each department, battalions of men and women were mobilized to strengthen school support and enforce health rules. A government had finally decided not to leave any children on the margins of the school system. This went even further: the information signalled a total shift in industrial and sovereignty matters. We were talking no longer about a recovery plan, but about industrial conquest. Unbelievable but true, finally, a government decided to mobilize all means to ensure that the country fully regained its economic sovereignty, with an industrial reconquest plan capable not only of meeting our needs, but also of preparing the future by preserving the planet and natural resources! Thousands of jobs were to be created. Employment and training offices would open in large cities to meet the needs of public services, associations and businesses. Every young person, coming out of school, was going to find a job that was properly paid. What a break with the world before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u174	What a night!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u175	While the French and the employees were afraid, so far, of losing their jobs, this dream Prime Minister announced that no one would remain on the tile and that the whole nation was in solidarity, for real. Listen to this: this government decided to establish a completely revolutionary system, innovative, guaranteeing everyone a job or training without loss of wages. It was a first in all of Europe! On the same basis as the creation of social security in 1945, the State and the employers set themselves up around the table and mobilized themselves to secure the career paths, from school to retirement, with a real salary allowing everyone to live dignifiedly, with work, periods of training giving rise to new qualifications in the same field or not, also giving rise to mobility, but always in safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u176	He's gonna vote for the budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u177	At the same time, the state was improving the SMIC, of course, and reducing working time, with a simple goal that everyone understands: that we work less, that we all work, and that we work better. You can imagine the change of society! It is not over: in this logic of reconquest, the State also decided to mobilize the major groups of which it is a shareholder, and to enter into the capital of other groups to develop new strategies aimed at relocating productions, opening factories and creating jobs. Renault, Airbus, Sanofi, Alstom, Air France, Safran and Thales were mobilized, but also Nokia, General Electric and Vallourec. At Bridgestone Bethune, the state prevented the announced layoffs and the closure of the plant. The strategist state was finally going to put an end to the diktats of the boards of directors who had fun putting French employees in competition with those of the European Union. Imagine the relief for the employees! For those of Bethune, the nightmare came to an end. For all these men and women, the anguish of unemployment, the loans to be repaid, the education of the children to be paid ended. In the wake of these beautiful announcements, a public drug center was created, with Sanofi of course, guaranteeing the supply of medicines and protecting threatened sites such as Famar Lyon, Luxfer or the LFB laboratory. In this dream, the good news did not end there. Listen to this one, Minister Delegate: I learn that this new government has finally decided to really attack tax havens, and that it has just named Eric Bocquet, a communist senator incorruptible in front of eternal and financial, the new minister for the fight against tax evasion. This unprecedented decision in the history of the Fifth Republic came after a new scandal: an American pension fund, the Apollo group, owner of many companies whose Verallia group, a glass producer, would have transferred €0.5 billion to the Cayman Islands via Luxembourg at the end of December last year. I have brought this matter before you, Minister Delegate! I would remind you that this group has announced 198 redundancies, the closure of an oven in Cognac and, at the same time, the payment of EUR 100 million of dividends to shareholders. You see, in my dream, the employees were finally respected, and so was the state. Finally, a government listened to employees and prohibited job security plans! From now on, any transfer of funds to tax havens was prohibited. What a break with the old world! With regard to the ecological transition, this dream government was finally taking action, with clear and ambitious objectives, and tens of thousands of jobs at the key. A training and recruitment plan was launched to achieve the right rate of thermal renovation of housing, i.e. 700000 housing units per year until 2040. That's the goal! In energy, water and waste treatment, the state took over, after the camouflet imposed by Engie. Building on his industrial florets, he decided to create a large public hub around Engie, the Commissariat for Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy – CEA, EDF and Suez, rather than letting these companies go under private capital. He was working on production methods to relocate work and stop exploiting people and natural resources. Agriculture and the soft modes of transport were finally going to receive real support. Transportation would even become free in the cities!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u178	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u179	Finally – and this is a turning point in recent years – the state was going to remove all tax exemptions for the richest, and finally put the latter at the expense, quite simply. Finish the gifts to the first of the ropes, to 0.1% of the richest who had enriched themselves in recent months and years. The big ones were going to pay big, and the little ones were going to pay small! You imagine that I didn't believe my ears, to the point that I said to myself: "It's not possible, I dream, it's French socialism! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u180	It's a nightmare for some!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u181	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u182	Indeed, I dreamed, but I wanted, through this dream, to tell you what we Communists would do in the present situation. There is an urgent need to break with your choices in the service of finance. Not only is there no break-up or questioning in your budget, but on the contrary, there are all the ingredients of an ever-increasing policy at the service of the richest. Why are you continuing this harmful trajectory of gifts to the richest, big companies, digging up the deficits of the state budget a little more each year? That the TPEs and SMEs be helped, that we finance partial unemployment, agree – and again, more should be done for the TPEs and SMEs, freeing them from financial burdens and compensating 100% of their turnover losses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u183	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u184	But why maintain all these tax reliefs for multinationals that have accumulated so much wealth in recent years? Besides, you don't ask them anything in return – zero! You decide, once again, to keep the gift of the abolition of the solidarity tax on the fortune and gift of the flat tax, and you refuse to tax their profits at source to avoid tax evasion, as we propose. This year, you are continuing to reduce the tax rate on the profits of multinationals and large companies; It's always the same trajectory! And here you add to your hunting table the reduction of so-called production taxes. Tell the truth – your government sent us the numbers this morning: out of the 10 billion euros of extra tax gift per year, 6.6 billion will be picked up by the largest boxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u185	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u186	Once again, the little boxes, which should be the most helpful, will only have the crumbs! Not to mention the municipalities and agglomerations which lose these revenues, and which you place even more under supervision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u187	It'll be compensated!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u188	Unlike your speeches about the importance of territories, you continue to deprive them of autonomy. This year, due to the pandemic, communities – including municipalities – are expected to have financial losses of $7.2 billion, offset by only $4.2 billion. You plan to reduce the overall operating budget by refusing to incorporate the effects of inflation and population growth. Our country, however, has an urgent need for municipalities, the first lever of public investment, to participate fully in the recovery plan. It's not time to cut their wings off! Finally, according to many humanitarian and charitable associations, the pandemic has turned 1 million French and French people into poverty. In recent months, the number of beneficiaries of food aid has increased by about 30 per cent or even 45 per cent in some departments. Deputy Minister, France is rich, very rich, but poverty is exploding, and your recovery plan does not provide answers. Worse, it could further exacerbate inequalities. Our fellow citizens live in fear of dismissal, or in the shame of not being able to cope with current expenditure: 10 million French people are in poverty. They prefer to fill their fridge rather than buy masks, and sometimes they wear the same surgical mask for several days. Will we step back the pandemic like this? No. For this reason, the epidemic affects poor neighbourhoods more than rich neighbourhoods – and that is not a fatality, it is the result of unfair political choices! Moreover, by announcing an increase of 800,000 unemployed by the end of the year – as if it were signed! –, you give in a way a permit to lay off in mass. I assure you, that's the message that's coming! How do you want groups like Bridgestone to interpret it, Minister? They're falling apart! You can cry out loud for indignation, denounce shareholders, say "it's unacceptable" to Bridgestone, General Electric, Ford and Verallia, but you don't scare anyone with your words; They're making fun of you. If you are not able to prevent the announced relocations, with the cohort of trucks that will import these same products into our country tomorrow, what are you using? What is your recovery plan for? I'd like you to announce here, Minister, that the state will prevent Bridgestone Bethune from closing! It is an unbearable bleed for employment, for the climate, but also for the state that loses tax revenues. Will you take into account this cost to the nation? Stop giving them billions of euros of public money, without demanding any consideration! This public money is the money of the French, it is ours, it is our money; It's up to us to tell us what it's for! In each region, there should be ad hoc committees to properly verify its use and ensure that it serves employment and public services, and that it responds to emergencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u189	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u190	In fact, you will be able to tell us that this is our money, Minister, when we have to repay it on account of the debt! In the meantime, not only do we not have a hand on the 570 billion euros of public money put on the table, but we should also agree to see the redundancies go through. Well, no! The French expect something else from their government. They want actions, a strategy, a firmness of the state to regain control of the economy. And that's not a dream, it's a hope rising! [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] In his latest encyclical, Pope Francis rightly recalls that "politics must not submit to the economy", but must be based on preferential love for the weakest. Your budget proposal follows an inverse slope. Communist MPs will do everything – everything! – during this debate, to build a budget for the benefit of human beings, our fellow citizens, the fight against poverty and the ecological transition. If they fail to do so, they will vote against your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u191	It's a class talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u192	Popular class.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u193	Almost ecumenical!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u194	"EoCommunist"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u195	He quoted the pope!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u196	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u197	We are beginning to review the exceptional 2021 Finance Bill, designed in the circumstances of health emergencies that we have been experiencing for eight months now. The confinement, pronounced from March to May, had the effect of freezing our economy for two months. Since May, however, it seems that the deconfination has not ended. Activities have gradually resumed but have sometimes been stopped again, such as coffees and restaurants recently. Above all, world trade has not regained its pre-containment level. The slowdown in trade has a very heavy impact on enterprises, which are nevertheless affected differently by different sectors of activity. The State has been at the forefront of the economy's support, with, in particular, the assumption of the wages of private employees through the mechanism of partial unemployment. Reductions in fiscal deadlines, the issuance of state-guaranteed loans, as well as access to the support fund for the self-employed, have all been urgent measures to support the economy and, in part, the wages of our fellow citizens, in this difficult period of economic, health and human life. We welcome the emergency measures that have been taken. The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group has, moreover, voted on each of the amending finance laws in order to allow this vital aid to be released. The budget for 2021 has the largest deficit balance in 70 years: the deficit jumped from 98.1% to 117.5% of GDP – we take note of that. You are planning, Minister, a massive recourse to debt. If we support a powerful mobilisation of public resources, it seems to us that aid should be more targeted and that large companies and large assets should be made more involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u198	Yes, it's obvious!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u199	You announce that the cumulative deficit will fall by one and a half points as of 2021. I confess to you, minister, that I do not understand by what fiscal magic we would find this trajectory, especially as you weaken our future tax revenues by a structural reduction in production taxes. I wonder: which resource will replace in the state budget the VAT which will compensate for the declines in CVAE for local authorities? I would also like to express a little concern at the European level. Our budget includes European funds that are not yet committed and our own recovery plan will have to be presented to the European Commission. Could you tell us where the exchanges with this institution are? On debt repayment, you should agree with the Prime Minister, Mr. Le Maire. This morning on a large media outlet, he said that the French would not pay the debt, while you say that any debt will one day repay itself. What is certain is that you have already begun to involve households with the extension of the contribution to the reduction of social debt and the transfer of debt to the social debt amortization fund. This finance bill is primarily an opportunity to include measures presented in the Government's €100 billion recovery plan. For the share corresponding to French financing, you are planning a flagship measure: the decrease of the CVAE and the CFE, for a total amount of 10 billion euros per year. This is the major additional financial effort set out in this finance law. This reduction in production tax does not seem to us to be appropriate to the challenge we face: not only does this tax gift miss its target but it irrigates sectors that do not need these contributions. This decrease in taxes is partially missing its target because the ACVE is mainly paid by middle-sized and large companies. Under 500000 euros of turnover, companies do not pay this contribution. For the tranche from EUR 500000 to EUR 50 million, they receive baraemic compensation and pay only a progressive rate of CVAE. The 1.5% rate is paid only by companies with a turnover of more than EUR 50 million, but it is only in the long term that they will benefit from the effects of these tax cuts. The TPEs and SMEs are, for their part, forgotten in this recovery plan. They always have access to guaranteed loans. However, it is very difficult for SMEs to consider becoming more indebted when they suffer from a lack of cash flow and, above all, a lack of business prospects. Let us detail the situation of companies in the face of the CVAE: more than half of the 557000 companies that are liable contribute only to the minimum contribution, i.e. 250 euros. For almost 290000 companies, this measure will therefore only raise EUR 125. It is far too little for it to have the desired effect on job creation or retention. In committee, an amendment by the rapporteur-general has raised the threshold of the reduced corporate tax rate, but this proposal, which is obviously not harmful, is also missing its target. It does not take into account TPEs and self-employed people and benefits companies that generate profits, i.e. those that, by definition, do better! The only good news for this segment of economic activity is the strengthening of the solidarity fund, which will obviously have to be included in this budget. On the other hand, these tax cuts irrigate sectors that did not need them, such as those in the financial sector that generate a lot of added value. However, in this time of budgetary drought, it is not necessary to water the sea, you will agree. We are in the presence of a medium- and long-term competitiveness plan, which has long been called for by employers' organisations, while some segments of our economy need emergency aid, others have pointed out before me in this forum. The other criticism we address to this decline in the ACVAE is that it is deployed without targeting and without matching for companies. For our part, we propose to attach it to several conditions. The first is to exclude large companies with turnover exceeding EUR 1.5 billion, unless they justify environmental and social compensation: publish a report incorporating the greenhouse gas emissions balance sheet, set up a vigilance plan, maintain jobs on French territory or publish social performance indicators. We will detail these measures by way of an amendment. This would then involve taxing a fraction of the turnover of the largest companies, which would be subject to the ACVE, in order to mobilise the savings thus generated for the benefit of SMEs. We will also propose an incentive for relocation based on the research tax credit. As we said in committee, we can no longer distribute billions of public money to companies that relocate industrial production outside of France and Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u200	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u201	Beyond a certain level of CIR, it is necessary to condition its payment to a solid industrial relocation strategy. In addition, the EDS Group would like direct public aid to be conditional on commitments in the fields of environmental protection, social protection and the fight against tax optimisation. What we also see as missing in this finance bill is the inclusion of some of the proposals in the Citizen's Climate Convention. The Government had committed itself to resuming almost all of them, but to date none of them had been included in the law. However, many could be integrated into the PLF. The EDS Group intends to take them up again by means of amendments: reduced VAT on passenger transport, increased taxation of dividends distributed by companies, generalisation of the sustainable mobility package, introduction of a special tax on motor insurance or taxation of the petrol of recreational aircraft. It also seems to us that, in this period of crisis, we need even more to activate national solidarity and implement tax justice measures. That is why we propose to increase the tax effort of the highest incomes by increasing the flat tax on financial products by three points.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u202	A big word.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u203	In addition, we want to review the taxation of wealth by integrating bank accounts into the property wealth tax, the IFI. This measure will return to the origins of the presidential campaign proposal – remember, Minister of Economy, we had this discussion from the beginning of the quinquennium. Subtracting productive assets from the solidarity tax base on wealth should not lead to the deduction of uninvested liquidity in securities and shares from wealth tax. There have been hours of debate on this issue and I believe that we will have the opportunity to return to it during this period of crisis. We also want to facilitate the construction of social housing by reducing VAT. In the face of the explosion of poverty and the number of beneficiaries of active solidarity income, it is necessary to increase the allocations to the communities responsible for this benefit. I remind you, but you know very well that the resources of the departments are not dynamic. They have had to deal with all the repercussions of the health crisis, whether it be social or paramedical or child welfare expenditure, which has increased, as the chairman of the Meuse departmental council told me that you met this morning, Mr Le Maire. But we will certainly come back to the budgets of these communities. Finally, we propose to increase the rate of the tax on financial transactions from 0.3% to 0.5% and to increase the share of its income allocated to development aid. As you can see, our group is a force for proposals. The second part of the PLF will also be an opportunity to deploy aid – aid for precarious households, aid for housing – because the poverty that is developing in our country requires an urgent response, if we do not want to widen the gap of inequality further. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS group and on a few benches of the GDR, LFI and SOC groups]] The fight against inequality must remain our primary objective in order to defend democracy itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u204	Mr Alexandre Holroyd has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u205	Our country is going through a crisis that has not been measured in our recent history: a health crisis that has turned into an economic crisis, an economic crisis that is gradually becoming a social crisis. This unprecedented event imposes an exceptional reaction, a powerful revival. This budget, which we are starting to examine today, is the framework for this. In the early hours of the covid-19 health crisis, the Government and Parliament mobilized to assist and support the poorest households and companies in difficulty. We have put in place important means to protect our economy: 5.8 billion for the solidarity fund for TPEs and SMEs, the self-employed and the liberal professions; 6.9 billion carry-over of social and tax charges for businesses; of which more than 10 million employees were able to benefit. In total, 470 billion euros were deployed between March and July to save our economy and protect the most fragile. We must now go even further and prepare France for the challenges of tomorrow, which are multiple. The recovery of the epidemic that we are seeing throughout the country confirms the need to implement a strong recovery to support our businesses, preserve our jobs and invest in our future. This is the objective of the 2021 budget, which is unprecedented in its size since it represents EUR 100 billion, or about a third of the annual budget of the State. This is four times more than the budget that followed the 2008 crisis. This budget 2021 is a stimulus budget organised around three strategic objectives: to accelerate the ecological transition, to develop the competitiveness of our enterprises and to strengthen the social and territorial cohesion of our country. To prepare our country for the climate challenges of tomorrow, we need to know where we start. That is why this year the State presented its first green budget, which lists environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly spending. It is a world first and I am proud to belong to the presidential majority, who worked tirelessly to create this indispensable tool. With this budget, we are making the choice to invest more than 30 billion euros that will make it possible to decarbonize our economy and our daily life in depth: they will be invested to renovate public and private buildings, to green our industry, to succeed in the transition of the agro-ecological sector, to develop the green hydrogen sector. The second structural axis of this budget is the development of the competitiveness of our enterprises and the independence of the productive apparatus. Since the beginning of the crisis, the state has made a choice: to protect employees and businesses alike. Of the EUR 100 billion that the recovery plan represents over two years, EUR 20 billion will be dedicated specifically to the reduction of production taxes paid by companies. The objective is clear: to relocate, boost our industry and support companies in our territories. The last structural axis of this budget and not the least: to protect our citizens who need it everywhere in the country. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government and the majority have been mobilized to promote purchasing power and support for fragile audiences. The Government has therefore made the courageous choice not to finance this stimulus plan with taxes, with more and more taxes. The preservation of employment, particularly the support of young people, is at the heart of this recovery plan. These figures, for the French who listen to us, give rise to vertigo. That is why I would like to take a moment to put things in perspective. This budget is above all the budget of all French people throughout the country. It was Alain's and his family's budget that was able to benefit from the increase in the school-rearing allowance. It is Camille's budget to Chemilly that will no longer have to pay his housing tax every year. It is Mehdi's budget, the owner of SMEs in the Loire region, which, thanks to the fall in production taxes, will be able to retain its employees and hire to continue to develop its business. It is Adrien's budget, 24 years old, that will be able to find a job thanks to the bonus of 4000 euros per year for companies that hire young people. It is still Amel's budget, which will be able to start renovations of its housing thanks to the enlargement of MaPrimeRénov'. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I could go on like this for a long time, but I think you will understand that, ladies and gentlemen, this 2021 budget is historic. Our businesses, our fellow citizens need it. I therefore urge all my colleagues here, regardless of the benches on which they sit, to support it. We have a huge responsibility for the years ahead and for future generations: honor it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u206	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u207	We are looking at this finance bill for 2021 under very special circumstances. The covid-19 epidemic and the resulting economic crisis have severely affected the French and pose a serious threat to the future of our companies and their employees. The crisis also completely upsets our public finances, such as the Government's fiscal stance. After three amending finance laws in the space of four months, we were waiting for this exceptional PLF, since it finally incorporates a recovery plan absolutely indispensable for the recovery and rescue of our economy. This crisis is unprecedented. It therefore explains the very violent slippage of our public accounts, which puts our country in a particularly worrying situation of over-indebtedness. However, this crisis has only worsened an already present trend, which is rooted in this government's permanent renunciation since 2017 and its chronic lack of political courage in times of favourable economic conditions – and the forecasts for recovery are not reassuring.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u208	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u209	This PLF for 2021 was particularly expected, since it finally details the recovery plan – a recovery plan that the Republicans have been demanding since June and which has been too late. What a waste of time as social plans multiplied after the summer! What a waste of time when Members of Parliament, the Republicans, had proposed to you in May to cancel the burden on TPEs and SMEs massively and, as early as June, to vote for incentives to hire young people. Every week, every month that passed, it was a delay on the recovery. This too late revival has more worrying than reassuring prospects. That said, it is indispensable and we do not dispute its magnitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u210	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u211	From the beginning of the crisis, we had alerted you on the imperative of extinguishing the fire with a tank and not with a sprinkler. If we have obtained an extension of aid from the Solidarity Fund and a start, unfortunately too timid, of cancellations of charges, we have also always called for a real plan to finance these expenditure, at least in the medium term. It is very easy to spend all-va and rain billions when they are fully financed on credit: you thus give the illusion that it is magic money! Our debt, already very high, flies away to reach more than 116% of GDP in 2021! This over-indebtedness threatens our fiscal sovereignty and the future of our social model. [["Yes! » on the benches of the LR group]] This obliges us to borrow another EUR 260 billion on the markets this year. The figures, dizzying, already have consequences and will have more for the future. By the end of 2020, we will have 2800 billion euros in debt, and every child born will find a debt of 41800 euros in his cradle as a gift.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u212	Unfortunately, that's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u213	Not a word about the financing of these billions! You never mention it! Without a financing plan, you are creating a debt wall that, sooner or later, will become a new tax wall. However, we repeat this month after month, year after year, France is already running under taxes and taxes, with a compulsory levy rate of 44.5% in 2020, which is the highest level in Europe! But a recovery financed by debt alone will only worsen this phenomenon: with the extension of the contribution to the repayment of the social debt until 2033, the French taxes have already begun to increase! The recovery of the economy is, however, a priority. This recovery plan is vital, but it must not relieve you of any responsibility for present and future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u214	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u215	This recovery plan and crisis spending should have been accompanied by major structural reforms, which you are completely exempt from. It's a guilty lack of responsibility on your part. I come to the weaknesses of this PLF for 2021. To save our economy, we must face reality and be lucid. However, this budget text is based on at least random forecasts. In particular, you bet that the health crisis will end in 2021: it is at best optimistic, at worst reckless, when we see the current evolution of the epidemic in our country and those around us. The figures given by the Government are more optimistic about recovery and growth than those forecast by the OECD or the Bank of France. If the health crisis were to continue, we would no longer have any room for manoeuvre to grant cancellations of massive burdens or to help companies threatened by the crisis. This text also lacks clarity and legibility: between sectoral support measures, investment measures, operational measures, short-term and long-term measures, it is very difficult to find overall coherence! Everything mixes to end up losing us a little more. This is proof that the PLF for 2021 suffers from a clearly defined lack of direction and objective. The Government takes advantage of this fog to incur expenses that have nothing to do with the current crisis, such as the upgrading of the school start-up premium. We expected much more from the Government, including substantive reforms. Indeed, if France is hit so hard, so violently, by the crisis, it is because it was badly prepared, we keep saying it. Never in the past two years have you had the courage to carry out future reforms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u216	That's not true, we did it and you voted against it every time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u217	Pension reform, for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u218	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You never wanted to take advantage of the favourable environment to start a consolidation of our public finances and restore our fiscal space. Before the crisis, France was already Europe's public spending champion, at 54% of GDP. Before the crisis, we already had a deficit three times higher than the euro area average, at 3% of GDP. Before the crisis, our debt was already 100 per cent of GDP. In the absence of sound public finances and substantive reforms, it is not surprising that we are experiencing the crisis so strongly, and this text unfortunately does not provide any of the answers expected in this regard. The reform of pensions seems to be forgotten, the promises of campaigning have gone away, especially those relating to the control of the civil service. The target of a reduction of 50,000 posts, already reduced to 10500, will not even be met. The Government only plans to abolish 157 posts for the year 2021 – we could almost indicate which ones within the framework of this PLF! Where's the courage? Where'd you make your promises? The figure of EUR 100 billion that the Government is all over is more like a communication argument than a project of the future. By decorating this figure, we can see that 15 billion euros have already been voted in the third amending finance bill; out of the EUR 100 billion invoked by the Government, only EUR 36 billion is actually included in the budget text, within a specific mission; Finally, that only EUR 42 billion will actually be spent by the end of 2021. [["Yes! on the benches of the LR group]] All this, moreover, is only worth if this money is actually spent, and nothing is less certain given the complexity of this recovery plan – let alone the centralism that characterizes it, with even the setting up of sub-prefects to the revival, as you promised to trust the territories. There is therefore no assurance that the measures announced are actually operational. With regard to the EUR 37 billion financed by Europe, once again, it is not magic money. This is already reflected in an increase of EUR 5 billion in the European levy for 2021, and this is just the beginning. Finally, some measures of this PLF are particularly disconnected from the economic crisis in many sectors. Once again, the Government seems to be willing to sacrifice the car sector, which is essential, by means of punitive ecological measures, in particular through the strengthening of the car malus combated by the Republican deputies. Lowering the CO trigger thresholds per kilometre has several consequences. The first is a very large tax increase, while the Government explained yesterday that there would be none. In reality, the application of the malus will translate into 1 billion euros of additional levies between 2019 and 2022: they will increase from 490 million euros to 1.58 billion euros. The second consequence is that rural areas will be the first to be affected by this new taxation, because there is no public transport in our territories and car is often the only possible means of locomotion. The third consequence is that you will deprive some people of the possibility of buying a new car, which is deeply unfair. The car malus applies to several models among the ten most sold cars in France, and family cars will be affected by these increases: thus, the malus will increase from 1504 to 2544 euros for the purchase of a Peugeot 3008 PureTech, and from 260 to 540 euros for a Dacia Sandero TCe 90 – a real punitive tax. I now turn to another subject, that of the cut in the budget of the chambers of commerce and industry. The Republicans welcome the adoption of their amendment, and the amendments advocated by other groups, aimed at stabilizing ICC resources by 2021: it was probably this amendment that led the Government to abandon reaching an agreement with them. In conclusion, this PLF for 2021 is not convincing. That is regrettable, because it contains several of the proposals made by Members of the Republican Group, including the reduction in production taxes that we have been demanding every year since September 2017. However, we cannot vote for such a confused and irresponsible budget. Eighteen months before the presidential elections, you give way to demagogy and ease by promising billions, without ever telling us when and how they will be financed. You renounce any structural reform. You expose us to a very great vulnerability, if the crisis were to last, and you persist in dogmatic choices and punitive taxation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u219	It's the fireman who counts his buckets of water!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u220	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] No, the account is not there and the MPs The Republicans will not be able to vote for a budget of this kind!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u221	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u222	As part of this finance bill for 2021, we will examine the stimulus plan to preserve and strengthen the French entrepreneurial fabric. The business situation deteriorated sharply, with an estimated revenue loss of EUR 54 billion between mid-March and mid-July. Many of them were put in brackets with confinement, and remained so. The Government responded by offering essential support for the rescue of activity and employment, which was extended during the three amending finance laws of 2020: partial unemployment, postponement or even cancellation of tax and social deadlines, EMPs and solidarity funds. These measures, which will be adjusted in the light of health developments, in particular in the context of the forthcoming Fourth Amending Finance Act, have made it possible to maintain the purchasing power of our citizens in general, which is to be welcomed. However, the companies suffered a double shock: one on their balance sheet, with increased debt – linked to some of the EMP's subscriptions, when others were degrading their own funds to amortise the crisis – and the other on a total loss of figure, with no rebound visibility in the short and medium term. While the primary risk of a liquidity crisis is eliminated, the solvency risk remains, which is due in particular to the debts accumulated since the beginning of the crisis, to the deterioration of operating accounts and to the less dynamic or even zero recovery in certain sectors. This risk of solvency is one of the first obstacles to the recovery of the French economy. In order to remedy this, the Recovery Plan proposes many measures to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies, helping them to overcome the current crisis and accompanying them to prepare for the future. I will mention the EUR 10 billion reduction in production taxes, which some sectors need to remain competitive with their European competitors, as well as export support plans and investments in technology sovereignty. It is also planned to strengthen the own funds of the TPEs, SMEs and ETIs in France. A €3 billion envelope of public funds, likely to raise between €15 and €20 billion in equity, will be deployed through two major measures: on the one hand, the creation of a label "France Relance" to better value investment vehicles promoting the capital of companies located in France – I will pay close attention to the tools that will be put in place in this respect; On the other hand, the provision of participative loans through the banking network to companies that are viable in the medium term but weakened by the crisis. These measures could usefully be supplemented by provisions which the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats will propose to you to adopt in order to accompany the transformation of the economy. Firstly, it seems essential to us, in order to strengthen the balance sheet of companies, to extend further the exceptional debt-remittance scheme which we adopted last spring. Several amendments by my colleague Jean-Noël Barrot are in this direction. The possibility of transforming an individual enterprise, whatever its form, into a society, in order to enable the provision of external capital, seems even more important today than yesterday: I would like to see a reflection on this. We also believe it is vital to support the transition of companies which, in order to adapt to the new situation, are partly or completely changing their activity. In the state of tax law, these transactions are not completely secure: they should be improved and managed. We really want to discuss with the Government and with you, ladies and gentlemen, an adaptation, even temporary, of this tax framework. The same applies to intergenerational solidarity or the necessary transformation of the building to improve the supply of quality housing accessible to all, which requires better tax treatment of real estate. I know, Mr Minister, that, if the time has not come to talk about tax increases, we can already envisage, for the future, a reduction in our taxation so that income from work is better dealt with – some of our amendments, my amendments, are intended to raise the question of a real tax reform, more just without being confiscatory. We will therefore support any measures that will enable businesses, employees and families to emerge from this heightened crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] We are committed to this budgetary debate with responsibility: we will vote on this PLF for 2021, because we are in the majority, but we intend to take on our role as parliamentarians by moving a few lines.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u223	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u224	The finance bill for 2021 has a special significance: it is the one that will make effective the pledges contained in the Government's stimulus plan, in the context of a health crisis that unfortunately continues. We must do everything possible to ensure that the health and economic crisis caused by the covid-19 does not lead to a social crisis. Expectations are strong and your responsibility is great. Yet behind the display and record amount of this recovery plan is a much more worrying reality. First, the EUR 100 billion in appropriations will not be injected in 2021 but will be deployed over two years. The draft finance law thus provides for the implementation of only 35 billion euros in 2021. The same applies to the key measure of the plan, namely the reduction of production taxes. This reality weakens somewhat, agree, the scope and vigour of the revival. Secondly, this choice is less of a search for economic relevance and efficiency than a dogmatic blindness. Indeed, the competitiveness index of the Davos Forum, to which Mr Le Maire is very sensitive, shows that there is no clear correlation between the level of production taxes and competitiveness. For example, these neighbouring countries, the Netherlands and Denmark, where the level of taxes is higher than in our own, remain much more competitive. Yes, this reform of production taxes is a dogmatic blindness because it is the neoliberal Trojan horse of the recovery plan. It is less a cyclical measure aimed at reinvigorating the economy quickly than an old government quirk, mentioned in 2018. On January 8, even before the start of the health crisis, the Minister of the Economy announced this decline for the beginning of the year 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u225	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u226	If the president of the MEDEF was concerned about the use of the conditional, he is now reassured: "That's what we asked for," he exclaimed after the presentation of the recovery plan. Taking advantage of the crisis, this finance bill is therefore a gift given to the employers with a little delay. It is the same dogmatism that governs your refusal to match aid with social and ecological conditions. However, this seems necessary at a time when the ecological transition needs to be stepped up, especially since the sectors that will benefit first of all from the reduction in production taxes are among the most polluting. Realist, the Socialist and Related Group will propose to introduce such conditions by way of amendments. It is still the same dogmatism that leads you not to target tax cuts on TPEs and SMEs while they employ a large part of the employees in our country; It is always the same dogmatism that governs the totally unbalanced nature of this finance bill, almost exclusively oriented towards support for supply. Low credit for households and the most vulnerable is likely to jeopardize the recovery. You have chosen to turn your back on the recommendations of INSEE and the Banque de France by presenting what is more like an investment plan than a recovery plan. Indeed, the measures implemented will only bear fruit in the medium term, while the urgency of the situation calls for immediate and vigorous support. Finally, it is the same dogmatism that drives you to finance these tax cuts by removing tax revenues that abound the funds of the local authorities. While these losses will be offset, communities will once again lose their fiscal power, which will keep them away from citizens and further erode their consent to tax. Local finances cannot be the variable for adjusting the state budget. This finance bill operates an unprecedented recentralization movement, in line with the directions taken since 2017. How can we not be surprised at the fact that these appropriations have not been financed by new revenue? You are making the bet on debt financing, while you are completely unaware of what market conditions will be in the months and years to come: you are sailing on sight. Yet, the health crisis was the perfect opportunity to revisit your past wanderings. Last month, INSEE confirmed that the removal of the ISF and the tax shield protecting capital income had greatly exacerbated inequalities in our country. These are the sources of funding! Exceptional needs call more than ever for exceptional contributions, such as estate tax reform or the introduction of a tax on the highest incomes. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] On October 4, in his latest encyclical, Pope Francis called for an end to "this dogma of neoliberal faith [...] using the magical notion of runoff [...] as the only way to solve social problems. May you hear it and put an end to this policy in favour of the minority that captures the vast majority of the wealth produced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u227	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u228	Many of the provisions of this first part of the finance bill, which we will be considering this week, will have a certain impact on the finances of local and regional authorities. The flagship measure is obviously the reduction of 10 billion euros in production taxes. We welcome this measure, which will restore competitiveness to our companies, as the decline in the EAC represents tax relief of more than €7 billion for them. It is complemented by the modification of the method of assessing industrial premises, which will reduce the weight of TFPB on industrial establishments by EUR 1.75 billion and that of the CFE by EUR 1.54 billion. While this massive reduction in production taxes is very good news for companies, it necessarily raises the question of its compensation to local authorities. On this point, the 2021 finance bill reassures us by providing for dynamic compensation, which was a demand from the regions and the communal bloc. On the method, however, I agree with my colleague Lise Magnier: the conclusion of a pact with the regions, even before we have examined and adopted Article 3 at the sitting, is not a good signal to parliamentarians. In any case, our group will be a force for proposals to make some improvements to the already satisfactory scheme proposed to us. The proposal to reduce production taxes, as well as the reform of electricity taxation proposed in Article 12, must ask us about the relevance of our local public finance model. These necessary reforms have precipitated the end of the financing arrangements for local and regional authorities which have been built for many years. Rationalization of local taxes or their reduction offset by a levy on government revenues have led to the loss of the power of local authorities to adjust rates. It is therefore necessary to reflect as quickly as possible on a model that combines the financial autonomy of local and regional authorities and tax efficiency. It is the whole question of the link between the citizen and the local elected official that needs to be examined in a new light. As such, Jean-René Cazeneuve's report on the "Evaluation of the Impact of Covid 19 on Local Finance" explores some avenues for reflection that deserve further consideration. As we know, the role of local authorities will be more central than ever, in the first place to support the most fragile and the poorest, severely weakened by the health and economic crisis. Undoubtedly, the CCAS – the communal centres for social action – of our communes will be heavily solicited in the year 2021. Second, the success of the recovery will necessarily depend on the communities. If the Action Together group is fully in line with the Prime Minister's policy as close to the territories as possible, communities will need the means to carry it out. We have sent them an excellent signal by voting for more than EUR 5 billion in support under the third amending finance law. On the other hand, existing arrangements can be fully adapted to their expectations. In particular, we will support an amendment to allow all communities to benefit from VAT refunds via the VATF in year n+l, which is not currently the case. These adaptations of proven mechanisms are simple and effective tools, especially since, contrary to what happened during the 2009 crisis, they have no difficulty in resorting to borrowing. However, we believe it is important to draw your attention to the great difficulties that will inevitably be encountered by a number of communities, particularly those whose operating revenues are derived primarily from tourism. They will have to be able to benefit from accompanying arrangements to balance their operating budget: we will have the opportunity to come back to this during our next discussions. Similarly, water agencies play a major role in the territories. At a time when the news reminds us of the human tragedies caused by increasingly recurrent natural disasters, we must accompany these indispensable actors in our territories. We must also arm ourselves with a genuine policy of preventing natural disasters, which will involve the sustainability of a dedicated fund. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] These are all issues on which we will be at your side, Minister Delegate, throughout the review of this text to make a positive contribution to the co-construction of this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u229	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u230	It is with sadness that we are gathered today in your memory. We're all here to pay you one last tribute. You left far too soon, far too fast, dear citizen convention for the climate. I remember the happy moments, when you sparked enthusiasm, when the President of the Republic spoke of you as a "human experience unique to the world". I remember that in June he told you, "I want all your proposals to be implemented as quickly as possible. You were so proud of it, and we were happy with it with you. But very quickly we realized that if, for many, you were the promise of a hope, for others you were just a valor. First of all, I want to talk to those who liked you and greet your authors, the 150 people who were drawn by lot who agreed to play the game and who believed in good faith in the promise of the President of the Republic to take up your 149 proposals "without filter". Even so, the President of the Republic had taken three of them from you. That's when you started to decline. The President of the Republic refused your proposal to tax dividends up to 4%. According to him, this measure could "discour investment". You were lucid. You knew very well that Total's shareholders, who received 1.8 billion dividends, or those of the banks, have only one obsession: to waste. But, alas, your idea would have ruined all the efforts of the President of the Republic. Dividend distribution jumped 62% from 2017 to 2018. The ultra-rich people of our country have received a quarter of this mountain of money and, during this time, 1 million people are turning into poverty. This budget has nothing to do with this terrible social crisis, unprecedented since the Second World War. Some die, while others fall under the green notes. The President has achieved his goals. I also keep in mind your proposal for a moratorium on 5G. You were wondering about the health, democratic and ecological issues of this technology. You asked this crucial question: "Do we need 5G? " But the government didn't listen to you. He called you Amish who lights up in the oil lamp, before launching the auction. You'll leave a big emptiness behind. I am moved to think about the reduction of VAT on public transport, the moratorium on commercial areas, the ecological conditionalities of aid to large companies or the malus on the most polluting vehicles. You were thinking that with multinationals and large polluting companies, it was no longer possible to limit itself to incentives. You wanted a massive investment in the railway, a tax on the chemical fertilizers that poison us and a regulation of advertising, but the majority mourned. The point is, it was the minister of the ecological transition who gave you the coup de grace. Your ecological measurements were "Ciao, bye bye! " We already suspected with the vote for the widespread poisoning caused by neonicotinoids. You said in your last letter that you had become aware of the ecological emergency, that the earth can live without us, but that we cannot live without it. For the minister, the climate emergency has to be postponed, even if "later" is already too late. The staff of the Ministry of Ecological Transition speak for themselves, with 8200 posts abolished since 2017 and still 1000 fewer posts for the coming year in this budget. It makes sense that once they bury you, they don't need officials to implement your measures anymore. The truth, a civic convention for the climate, is that they don't like democracy: even after censoring you, they didn't want to listen to you. This budget is a funeral ceremony – one more. They want to keep the world before intact, keep the life course of the rich who destroy the planet and revive the machine to produce mass misfortune. Colleagues, spare us once and for all your jeremiades when we talk about Emmanuel Macron as the president of the rich! You're not fooling anyone anymore. You need to understand one thing: an ecological policy without social justice does not exist. This is what a finance bill worthy of this name would have demanded: collectively organize ecological planning, build common causes that unite the people, such as water, air, land or health, and, once and for all, share wealth. I wanted to finish your funeral prayer with Almeida Garret's sentence: "I ask political economists, moralists: have you already calculated the number of individuals that it is necessary to condemn to misery, to disproportionate work, to absolute scarcity, to produce a rich one? » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Rest in peace, dear citizen's convention for the climate. We won't forget you! History, Mr.Minister Delegate, will remember your insult to democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u231	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-12-O1014.u232	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the first part of the 2021 Finance Bill. The meeting is adjourned.
