ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft amending finance law for 2020 (No. 3576). Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u2	I can only rejoice that last Tuesday we reached agreement with our fellow senators on this fourth amending finance bill in a joint committee. There is a simple explanation for this: in this period of economic and social emergency, directly linked to the health crisis that our country is going through, Members and senators had to show responsibility, and I would like to welcome and thank all the members of the Joint Joint Committee and, in a broader way, all those who have contributed to this compromise text that we are proposing to adopt this afternoon. In particular, I would like to pay tribute to the Senate majority and, in particular, to my counterpart Jean-François Husson, with whom I have been able to have a frank dialogue in this type of situation. This fourth PLFR is, of course, an end-of-management text, but it is very atypical nevertheless, since, at the heart of this health crisis and when a second confinement has been put in place, we had to adapt our management tools and the emergency measures that go with it. This PLFR4, therefore, is, first and foremost, an exceptional aid to the most fragile households – I insist on it because it has tended to go under the media radars. This EUR 1.1 billion aid is intended primarily for families whose parents are in the RSA – active solidarity income – who will benefit from EUR 100 in grants per child, scholarship students and young recipients of personal housing grants – APL – who will receive EUR 150 in grants. It is also a plethora of EUR 10.9 billion in the Solidarity Fund and a plethora of appropriations to finance partial activity, amounting to EUR 2.1 billion, plus further exemptions from social contributions for the most affected sectors, amounting to EUR 3 billion, and finally EUR 2.4 billion in additional appropriations for hospitals. In this PLFR4, we have seen wide scope, and this additional €20 billion must allow us to finish this year 2020 by ensuring the best possible protection for companies, employees and households. Together with the chairman of the committee, Eric Woerth, we are both special rapporteurs for the appropriations of the mission "Emergency plan in the face of the health crisis", and it will be our responsibility to pilot and verify the proper implementation of these appropriations, which we will report to you throughout the beginning of 2021 until the spring of the evaluation. The CMP – Joint Joint Committee – has also enriched the text with significant and interesting inputs. First of all, we welcome the fact that the Government in the Senate has opened up €25 million in funding for the "School Education" mission; They are intended to recruit additional education assistants in vocational colleges and lycées. The CMP then adopted exceptional aid to the Alpes-Maritimes department, following the disaster of storm Alex. It can be seen as a mere down payment, but it is welcome and meets the expectations of elected officials. Finally, we also approved the Senate's initiative to re-establish funds for the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission: we had discussed them at length here, and it is legitimate to strengthen support for the sport world. The fight against partial unemployment fraud will be strengthened thanks to the amendment by our colleague Nathalie Goulet, which allowed the allocation of an additional 500,000 euros. The shuttle also made it possible to hear all parliamentarians expressing concerns about the equine sector. A Senate amendment which proposed exemptions from charges has thus been transformed into an abundance of the specific fund, to the tune of 8 million euros, in addition to the efforts already made in the third amending finance bill. The equine sector is now better accompanied. Finally, we have made an interesting advance on advances repayable to the mobility organising authorities – AOM – by inserting a clause to return to a better fortune. In other words, AOMs will only repay when they are assured of having tariff revenues equivalent to their pre-crisis revenues. This, too, is more secure for communities and AOMs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In view of the importance of the support measures, the urgency in which we are, the responsibility shown by honourable senators and Members, and in view of the progress made by this text from the Joint Committee, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt its conclusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u4	The Secretary of State for the Social Economy, who is responsible for the social economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u5	Let me tell you, with great sincerity, the pleasure that I have to meet you in this Chamber to discuss the final stage of this fourth amending finance bill for 2020, following the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee last week. This is the fourth time that your work has made it possible to reach an agreement with the upper chamber on the adjustments to the budget for 2020. This is undoubtedly the sign of the spirit of responsibility that has animated Parliament since the beginning of the crisis; I would therefore like to thank all the Members who, thanks to their contributions, have made it possible to enrich the debate and to clarify important points.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u6	Thank you to the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u7	Olivier Dussopt, Deputy Minister for Public Accounts, had the opportunity to stress this, this fourth amending budget has the dual ambition of consolidating, on the one hand, the support arrangements, opening and cancelling, on the other hand, the appropriations within the framework of the management end-of-year plan. As far as the urgency is concerned, we therefore propose recharging the devices of more than 20 billion euros; With regard to the end of management, for the third consecutive year, the Government did not submit advance decrees – which, before 2018, had not been seen since 1985. Indeed, we have endeavoured to give parliamentary authorisation its full scope, by not deviating it by regulation. As a result of our discussions, you have here amended and passed the amending finance bill at first reading; The review of the text has expanded some of the support measures. I am thinking in particular of aid for the most vulnerable people, which has been reinforced by an allocation of EUR 330 million in commitment authorisations and a little more than EUR 176 million in payment appropriations on the work and employment mission. s These additional resources will not only create 30,000 new jobs in the integration sector through economic activity, but will also increase employment in the priority neighbourhoods of the city. They will also make it possible to finance the public service of integration and employment: this very important gesture was expected: it will make it possible to strengthen the access to the labour market of those who are farthest from it. We have also strengthened support for the most vulnerable, through the financing of an exceptional bonus of 150 euros for social minimum-income recipients, young PLAs beneficiaries and scholarship students. You have also adopted an amendment to which I obviously attach particular importance and which makes it possible to finance a new emergency package of EUR 30 million to support and preserve community employment. The spring health and economic crisis has weakened the fabric of small employers' associations, which are often at the heart of our territories. The second epidemic wave and health restraints face new challenges, which threaten their numbers and even their survival outright. So yes, this exceptional support measure that you voted for will help preserve the jobs of thousands of small associations, threatened by the economic consequences of the health crisis in the coming weeks and months. This fourth draft amending budget, although exceptional, nevertheless honours the Government's commitments not to include new tax measures. In addition, apart from emergency appropriations, this PLFR4 provides for appropriations equal to cancellations, thus allowing the revised level of appropriations in this year's various amending finance laws to be maintained. Be absolutely assured that the imperative of sincere and controlled public accounts management remains at the heart of our commitments. Members of Parliament and senators meeting last Tuesday in the Joint Joint Committee agreed on several major points. Firstly, an agreement has been reached to support local and regional authorities. The mobility payment and revenue losses of the mobility organising authorities will be offset by advances repayable in the regions and in Île-de-France, amounting to €750 million. Repayments will be spread over a period of six to ten years, and communities will only begin to repay once they have regained a sustainable financial position. In addition, you have decided to allocate additional support to the Alpes-Maritimes department, which has recently been affected by a major environmental disaster. I also note that you have decided that the lower-than-expected yield of the special tax on insurance contracts to Action logement services should benefit from social security: we take note of this. The discussions in the CMP finally allowed us to go further in the ambition of this text, with the release of 4.7 million in payment appropriations for the Sport programme; It is also 8 million that have been opened to support the sector of equestrian centers and pony clubs. In addition, the programme "Management and control of economic and financial policies" will benefit from an additional €500,000, allowing for a strengthening of the means of control – a subject that has been the subject of debate between the two chambers. Given its limitations, the system of right to collective image – Chione – applicable between 2004 and 2010 will not be resurrected: Parliament has followed the advice of the Government and the general rapporteurs. Finally, the Joint Joint Committee confirmed the additional resources for the "School Education" mission voted during the Senate examination. This funding will allow the recruitment of additional education assistants not only in colleges but also in vocational lycées, in order to allow vulnerable teachers to deliver their courses remotely while maintaining supervision of students in schools. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to thank you for your commitment and proposals, which have enabled us to provide common, necessary and effective responses to an unprecedented health crisis. Since the beginning of this pandemic, all the devices adopted have helped the French and French to go through this difficult and unceremonious period. I have no doubt that you will continue this joint effort, because it is the condition of maintaining our productive forces and our social fabric throughout the territory: you know that perfectly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u8	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u9	The examination of this PLFR4 took place in a context of urgency and great uncertainty for the French economy. Of course, the PLF for 2021, which was intended to accompany the deployment of the recovery plan, had become literally anachronistic and the financial forecasts that underlie it lapsed. We regret once again that no second or even third wave scenarios have been formulated upstream. The fragile recovery, in our already very volatile situation, comes up against the shock of the second wave, which further shakes our businesses during this holiday season. Of course, in this context, we can only strongly support the new measures announced by the Joint Joint Committee. In particular, we would like to welcome the €25 million increase in the budget of the School Education Mission, in order to finance the recruitment of additional education assistants in vocational colleges and lycées, so that vulnerable teachers can deliver their courses remotely while maintaining supervision of pupils in schools. We also welcome the continuation of the appropriations of the inter-ministerial anti-fraud coordination mission, the abolition of the cancellation of appropriations for public sports policies and the exceptional assistance of EUR 20 million granted to the Alpes-Maritimes department, which is affected by numerous natural disasters. Beyond these emergency measures, let us remember that this pandemic is ravaging entire parts of our economy: while the job losses and announced bankruptcies are the emerging part of the crisis, SMEs and TPEs in our constituencies are suffering in silence. In this regard, as our independent UDI group explained in its letter of 30 October to the Prime Minister, it is counterproductive to continue to penalize local businesses, while they are on the front line, especially in rural and peri-urban communities. This closure of the small neighbourhood trade is an economically destructive and sanitaryly unjustified step, as we have consistently demonstrated in recent weeks. We wish to reiterate the importance of dialogue and consultation between the territories and their stakeholders: let us therefore take up this challenge, which seems to be a challenge, by strengthening the mayor-prefect couple; Let them work together and decide on the necessary measures to limit the influx while maintaining activity and avoiding the destruction of businesses and jobs, which would be costly economically and socially. Trust the local economic actors, who are trying to establish protocols adapted to the territories! The closing of shelves in supermarkets and the development of take-out sales will not be enough to counter the digital giants. This debate must be based on a logic of equity, proportionality and health efficiency: it seems to us that this is not the case today. Despite announcements by the general manager of Amazon, Frédéric Duval, and by some of the major players on the postponement of the "black friday" to December 4, traders are still cautious. We cannot let the local businesses die, and I hope that the Government will ensure that their reopening takes place on the weekend of 28 November, by reconciling health security with economic activity, in order to save these thousands of businesses and jobs so necessary for our country. Throughout the past few weeks, the IDU and independent group has endeavoured to make proposals to the Government. Concrete and rapid measures must be taken to rebalance the inequalities of treatment that I have mentioned between the largest and the smallest: Madam Secretary of State, one could envisage, for example, that large distribution, online sales platforms and insurers could contribute to an expanded solidarity fund for small businesses. The economic disruptions caused by the pandemic and the budgetary response certainly offer the opportunity to reorient the French economy by accompanying our companies, but we must be clear: we are moving towards the sustainability of the alternation between deconfinations and reconfinations, so that many other PLFRs will be needed. However, I do not believe that businesses and the budget are ready for this. The IDU and independent group will obviously be in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u11	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u12	At first reading, the Libertés et territoires group had abstained on this fourth amending finance bill for 2020. If we consider that emergency arrangements are useful or even necessary to alleviate the violence of the economic shock, returns from the ground highlight difficulties, shortcomings and gaps in several areas. More generally, the discussions in the National Assembly and the Senate show the need for certain adjustments, in particular on the mechanics of solidarity funds, which must be improved in order to better help the self-employed and other small businesses to cover their fixed expenses: Minister Bruno Le Maire has made statements in this direction, which we expect to be implemented in future budget texts. An approach based on the loss of turnover rather than of a sectoral nature would seem preferable. She would have the merit of avoiding holes in the snowshoe. For small businesses, the creation of a tax credit in the PLF for 2021 to encourage lenders to cancel part of the rents does not seem to us to meet the difficulties. This is a step forward, but we fear a wave of stronger failures with second containment. While the giants of online distribution and sales are the big winners of the crisis, small businesses seem very lonely. We regret that our amendment, tabled at first reading, introducing an exceptional contribution from e-commerce companies has been rejected, while introducing a measure of fairness. This weekend, our fellow senators took the initiative to create exceptional contributions for the e-commerce and insurance sectors in the budget for 2021. As early as spring, we said that the commitment of the insurance players was not up to the challenge. We had proposed improvements to cover the operating losses suffered by companies, particularly in the hotel and catering sectors. In this regard, Madam Secretary of State, we have learned that some insurers unilaterally and before the end of their term terminate contracts that provide for the loss of operations. The question arises of the financing of the measures of the four amending budgets for 2020 and of the initial budget for 2021. We must have this debate, because there is no magic money, even in times of pandemic. To date, the EUR 186 billion that this crisis has cost – 100 billion in revenue losses and 86 billion in emergency measures – are largely financed by borrowing. We cannot hide the following question any longer: at the end, who will pay? I do not believe that a potential return to better economic skies alone will restore public finances. We also need to look again at support for local communities: I regret that the final text has not retained some of the Senate's contributions in this area: I am thinking in particular of the allocation to the communal bloc to compensate for the additional costs associated with the crisis. Sooner or later, we will have to work together on this question, because the PLF for 2021 only partially answers it. A new amending budget could be presented at the beginning of 2021, particularly for local authorities: can you confirm that, Madam Secretary of State? In the meantime, we are satisfied with the newly created article 10 concerning the refundable vacancy made to the AOM to compensate for their loss of revenue. We have, however, pointed out the few provisions for fragile or precarious households, even if measures are proposed, while the current crisis dangerously increases social inequalities. Thus, out of the €20 billion planned, 1 billion, or 5% of emergency measures, will be targeted at the poorest. Too little funding is also allocated to the associations that accompany them, even though we know how important they are on the ground. A study by Secours Catholique predicts that the number of poor people will exceed the 10 million mark in France. I also want to mention the lack of measures for cities and so-called popular neighbourhoods. About 10 days ago, some 100 mayors called upon the President of the Republic to do so: their proposals reserved 1% of the recovery plan, or EUR 1 billion, for emergencies in areas of great suffering. Obviously, according to the mayors who met with the Prime Minister this morning, he would have agreed to grant this billion euros: if this commitment were confirmed, when and how would this envelope be allocated to the communities? I hope that the PLF shuttle for 2021 will make progress: it is about the cohesion of the territories and of our country. [[Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general, applauded]] Some Members of the Liberties and Territories Group, considering that the amendments made to the Senate are not sufficient, will persist in abstention, when others, of which I am a member, noting some progress in the Senate and the Assembly, will vote in favour of this fourth amending finance bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u13	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u14	You have just mobilized the National Assembly for a week to attack fundamental freedoms, while more than 10 million French people are deprived of fundamental rights, starting with the right to food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u15	It's out of place!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u16	A PLFR serves, as its name suggests, to correct a budget, including its holes in the snowshoe, that stupid lapalissade you cherish. It only spends 800 small million euros on the tsunami of poverty that is spreading over the country, to resume the alarm of the Restos du coeur. You're not interested in what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u17	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u18	Because I hear you talking, Madam Secretary of State. This weekend, we organized a food collection in my constituency. This was one of those times when the satisfaction of being useful is totally crushed under pain and above all anxiety. I am constantly rethinking this volunteer of the Saint-Denis People's Relief, who entrusted me with his distress and despair to see that the situation has continued to worsen since the first confinement and that more and more people have been queued for blankets and food. She told us that even they, members of a well-known association that celebrates its seventy-five years, now find it difficult to harvest enough food according to the scale of the needs. I keep thinking about these volunteers, physically tired but, above all, humanly abandoned by the state in the face of all these miseries and the estimated 1 to 2 million new poor people who have appeared in a few months. They are tired of being abandoned in a period when food distributions have increased by more than 25% and when, just in Seine-Saint-Denis, the demand for the Restos du coeur has increased by 40%: 40% more people whose last small savings are no longer enough to fill the refrigerator and who are forced to consider skipping meals. Dear Ministers, you who have all the power, you who bear the responsibility of the state of our country before history, what have you done, what have you chosen to do? Nothing or ridiculously little. You have even gone so far as to cut food aid by €8 million in next year's budget and to align, as in this PLFR, ever more gifts to the richest and the largest companies, without arrows or counterparties. What are you doing, Madam Secretary of State, apart from launching a few gadgets at a PLFR stroke, before you lower budgets in the PLF next year? In this text, your measures to tackle poverty are both derisory and totally inadequate for the urgency and nature of the crisis. There is no increase in social minimums or even an extension of the RSA – active solidarity income – to young people under 25 years of age, whereas this measure would be, in the situation and even exceptionally, the minimum minimum. There is nothing about housing or the increase in rental evictions and the number of homeless people – without a fixed home. You continue the same momentum in all your texts, with the same liberal and mortiferous logic, which you assume again. Even when the Senate arranges your text a little bit by asking to tax GAFA – Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon – or to make the solidarity fund more proportional and fairer, especially for small traders, artisans and independents, you don't let anything go out of your deadly liberal plans. However, this is the fourth time of the year that you want us to pass a law of amending finance: as I said, in theory, these laws should be used to correct errors and budgetary shortcomings. But what were you doing to the inequalities? With the removal of the housing tax, you have offered 8 billion euros to the 753,000 richest tax homes, while in the midst of the crisis you have only 2 billion, all financial laws combined, to offer to the 10 million poor? You are not even able to increase, if only 10%, the RSA, while such an increase would cost only €1.2 billion, and that you have offered €28 billion to the most affluent between the abolition of the ISF – solidarity tax on wealth – the introduction of the PFU – a single flat-rate levy –, the abolition of the housing tax for the richest and the gifts to the big companies still planned for next year! It is time to return this EUR 28 billion to national solidarity, which would be more effective than your supply policy, because it would boost popular consumption. Similarly, it would be time to further assist small business by taxing the crisis profitors of large e-commerce companies. As you correct your copy for the fourth time of the year, it is time to correct the inequalities and misery that stifle our country. I heard Mr Castex say this morning that he was going to respond to the call of the mayors of the working-class neighbourhoods, giving them 1 billion of the EUR 100 billion of the recovery plan, but I am concerned that this amount will be divided between measures for inclusion, employment, the education sector, mobility and local businesses, i.e. envelopes for other aid: this way of using the same financial measures several times according to the pressures is a bit easy! [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] We must no longer hesitate: an emergency plan against poverty, financed by taxation of the richest, is absolutely necessary. That's what you should get the National Assembly to work on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u19	It's very conservative!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u20	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u21	First of all, I will denounce the deplorable conditions of the first reading of this PLFR in the Chamber. It was not acceptable to consider in one evening a text that provides for almost €20 billion in business support. Moreover, no opposition amendment, whether left or right, has been adopted – I would like to remind you. This confirms the Government's contempt for the National Assembly and sheds a raw light on the place that the majority gives to debate and democracy. In substance, we said in the general discussion that we would be attentive to developments in the text during its consideration. Since there have been none, our voting position will not change either. I want to remind you why. In Robin of the buds, you have introduced a soft containment for large companies, even juicy for some, but especially hard for small traders. This text will not change much. The development, albeit commendable, of the Solidarity Fund, the second part of which brings aid to EUR 10000, is not sufficient. It would have been necessary to provide the means to compensate for the turnover losses of small businesses. To achieve this, we proposed a number of measures, including the exceptional contribution of insurance, which was not at the meeting, as well as the exceptional tax on e-commerce giants. To introduce such a tax, however, was a common sense: the closure of small shops and some supermarket shelves opened a golden bridge to e-commerce giants like Amazon, which sniffs the added value as white powder, and tripled its profit in the third quarter. This considerable distortion between the small closed shops and the e-commerce giants could have been corrected by making the latter pay a contribution towards the former. Economic dogmatism finally took him away: the gigantic torrent of profits of some wealthy people will not pour any droplets on the smallest. In the same spirit, we proposed the application of the concept of permanent establishment, so that digital giants would finally pay their fair share of taxes. Our colleagues in the Republican communist citizen and environmental group in the Senate had also tabled this amendment; It has been adopted in a transparant manner. Finally, you excluded him from the Joint Committee. By refusing these proposals which would partially restore fairness between small businesses and large ones, you also deprive yourself of the necessary margins to support massively and widely the former. This PLFR therefore does not solve the difficulties in this area. The other dead end of the text, which we mentioned in the general discussion at first reading, is poverty, which is progressing dangerously in our country. At the end of the year, according to associations, there will be 10 million poor and 300,000 homeless. RSA's requests are exploding, with no way of responding to them. Many French people, young people, part-time workers, temporary workers, self-employed people fall into poverty and are forced to call for solidarity in order to feed themselves. At the end of the year, such a dramatic social situation would have required a strong, massive, urgent response. This was the meaning of the appeal that 110 mayors of popular cities have recently addressed to you, because, when the social breakdown increases, the Republican pact in turn weakens. In spite of the warnings, you have abandoned those French to their fate, as well as the mayors who try to react, but do not have sufficient resources. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You refused social justice measures that were necessary. Opening up the AHR for children under 25, pending the creation of an autonomy allowance for young people, was necessary. There was a need to create a fund for people's associations, which are often the last to maintain social ties. You should also have decreed a white year in terms of unemployment rights for the most vulnerable, extended the unemployed arriving at the end of the law and paid 100% of partial unemployment up to two SMICs, so that no employee would fall into poverty. How can you not see, once again, that poverty and insecurity do not matter to you? Given the scale of the crisis, we had the hope that you would finally react, but you continue to ignore the grapes of anger. In view of this fact, given the insufficient support given to small businesses and the maintenance of inequity with large companies, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, as at first reading, will vote against this bill of amending finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u22	Mrs Catherine Osson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u23	Our country is in an unprecedented situation: the health crisis and its impact on the economy and society in general have led us, for the fourth time this year, to amend the initial finance law planned for 2020. In the past nine months that France has been living with covid-19, the virus and its consequences will have cost a total of almost 186 billion euros: 100 billion euros in revenue losses due to the contraction of economic activity, and 86 billion euros in emergency health and economic measures. The sums committed in the face of the crisis have enough to make lose the notion of the things to which we would listen, but not for a moment we did not hesitate: beyond the sums committed, the whole country's future is at stake. Never more than in the past nine months, we have not incarnated the spirit of solidarity that our social democracy bears in its heart. While it is the State that has committed expenditures to protect the most vulnerable and the public most affected by the crisis, it is society as a whole that has mobilized, and is still mobilizing, to support and assist those in need. The amending finance bill, which we now have the responsibility to vote, is a decisive part of the spirit of solidarity that has animated us for more than nine months. It thus mobilises an additional EUR 20 billion for the year 2020. The Solidarity Fund has 10.9 billion; The total amount will be EUR 19.4 billion. Thanks to this text, its access will be expanded and the amounts of aid allocated increased. The continuation of the financing of partial unemployment is credited to EUR 3.2 billion; €3 billion is spent on the exemption from social contributions, totalling €8.2 billion; An additional EUR 1.9 billion is planned to strengthen the capacity of health facilities; 1.1 billion euros is finally dedicated to the most vulnerable, the beneficiaries of the RSA or the APL, the people in unemployment arriving at the end of their rights and the under 25s. Finally, I am particularly sensitive to the allocation of $25 million for the recruitment of education assistants in vocational colleges and lycées. Without going into the technical aspects of the text, I would like to briefly mention the main budgetary tasks abounded in this PLFR4, as they represent for the French and the French a primary and fundamental support. The mission "Emergency plan to address the health crisis" is the subject of an appropriation of EUR 17.3 billion, in particular to finance the extension of the partial activity in 2020, following the tightening of health measures. The mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" saw its appropriations increase by 1.6 billion, dedicated in particular to the exceptional aid of solidarity announced by the President of the Republic. We must add community support for the purchase of masks, measures for the cultural sector, which we do not forget, and to which we are all attached, or the "Student Life" programme, whose increase in appropriations will be used to provide the exceptional €150 aid announced by the Prime Minister for scholarship students as soon as possible. Once again, all socio-occupational categories are, in one way or another, affected by the social and solidarity measures contained in this PLFR4. As far as closed companies are concerned, which we want to see reopened as soon as possible, as soon as health conditions permit, economic support obviously does not replace the activity itself. It is not only intended for companies; It aims to empower the economy to cope with the unique turbulence that 2020 has placed on our road. In the same way as the wearing of the mask by the citizens protects us from each other, the economic and financial solidarity of the country towards the companies is a game to be positive: if they hold the shock, thanks to the citizen consumption reoriented to the market and the domestic production, they will tomorrow be invincible and will be able to restart. The President of the Republic and the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery both said so. We have done so: whatever the cost, the State will be at the side of those who need it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In a situation like the one in our country, there is no question of eliminating the differences and differences that we may have. They are a sign of the vitality of our democracy. I believe, however, that it is important to stress that in such circumstances the National Assembly and the Senate have succeeded in adopting a common position at the Joint Joint Committee. It is not only a political act, it is not even a political act, it is a citizen act: this agreement at the CMP shows that parliamentarians are aware that the situation is serious. This agreement involves a faster application of the many support mechanisms I mentioned the main ones. If only one is needed, it is the one for which I urge you, together with the Group of the European People's Party on the move, to adopt the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u24	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u25	In just eight months, our assembly was led to vote on four amending finance bills, an impressive figure, which reflects the completely new nature of the health, social and economic crisis that we are experiencing. The violence with which this second epidemic peak hit France has pushed the Government into new containment measures, which have slowed our country's economy for the second time in a few months. This fourth PLFR is therefore absolutely essential to support companies and French people who suffer the most from reconfiguration. Unfortunately, we can only deplore your lack of anticipation before a second wave is well-predicted. If the situation is of course exceptional, you too often give the feeling of reacting too late or insufficiently. Nevertheless, like many of those who spoke in the rostrum before me, the Republican Group welcomes the outcome of the Joint Joint Committee, which will allow these emergency measures to be implemented as quickly as possible, because it is important. Without very strong state support, the new containment could prove fatal for many companies, already very fragile by the former. It is the very survival of many TPEs and SMEs that is at stake. The social consequences of the reconfinition for our most fragile compatriots also required specific support. We hope that this time the Government will learn better from this ordeal by better organizing deconfinity and taking effective measures to avoid a third, which would be completely devastating. Indeed, after several weeks of confinement, your measures remain confused; The emerging policy is a policy sometimes on a day-to-day basis, which is not adapted to the scale of the crisis. I would like to recall some worrying figures: the recession will reach 11 per cent of GDP, the debt will explode to 116 per cent of GDP, public expenditure will amount to 64.3 per cent of national wealth, and these impressive figures will have an impact on French taxes, which are subject to a record rate of compulsory levies of 45.2 per cent of GDP. On the other hand, the consequences of this crisis are amplified by the poor economic management of our country over the last three years, while the economic situation was more than favourable. Unfortunately, it will be up to the French to pay the price of your obstinacy not to thoroughly reform our system and not to seize the opportunities that exist to clean up public finances. Nevertheless, the additional €20 billion foreseen is essential to the new difficult economic environment. A plethora of the solidarity fund, the application of new exemptions from charges, as Members of the Republican Group requested from the first PLFR, and the release of EUR 1.1 billion to the beneficiaries of the RSA or the APLs are all necessary measures. However, when we examined this text in committee and then in session, we pointed out some shortcomings. The first one was about rents. We have discussed many of them, and their impact on the cash flow of companies, which has already been hard hit by the crisis, is important. The mechanism provided for in the text seems to us to be too light. We proposed creating a specific fund: with 2 billion euros, it would have provided a much more satisfactory response. The second confinement profoundly changed the prospects of companies that had subscribed to a state-guaranteed loan – PGE – in the spring; This measure should have been corrected by turning EMPs into quasi-equity for the most indebted companies, as we proposed. On the other hand, we still hope that small businesses will reopen as soon as possible – subject to a strengthened health protocol – in order to limit the disastrous consequences of their closure, especially in the run-up to the Christmas season, which is of considerable importance to them. Despite these few remarks, we welcome the amendments made by the CMP, which wished to retain several measures voted by the Senate. Sectoral measures have been adopted to support, inter alia, the equine sector, with an additional 8 million appropriations. The sport sector will also continue to benefit from the 4.7 million initially cancelled. Finally, the mobility organising authorities will only be required to repay the advances received from the year following the return of their pre-crisis revenue level. On the other hand, as always, we regret your obstinacy not to listen to the opposition's proposals, which have been put forward without a spirit of controversy, but of course with the aim of dealing collectively with the urgency of the situation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commission]] Despite these real shortcomings, the consequences of which will be detrimental, the Members of the Republican Group, in a spirit of responsibility, will vote this fourth PLFR for 2020, as they voted the three previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u26	Mr Christophe Jerretie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u27	We are coming to the end of a financial process of unprecedented magnitude. In 2020, we examined four PLFRs and, contrary to what some have claimed, state economic and financial interventionism was unique. For the first time in years, it adjusts, adjusts, defeats, redraws and redefines its public policies and future for a PLF. The year 2020 is also a collective political test, where everyone mobilizes for clear and simple objectives: 2020 is real. Contrary to what many think, it is a difficult, harsh, perhaps even black, year without respite, at the end of which resilience and solidarity must bring us about 2021. It is also an unprecedented year, characterized by an unrivalled collective test, which, let us not forget, will be unique in the time-space of finance. Let us consider our two objectives, now that we are reaching the end of this process. The first was to support economic actors "no matter what" – an expression that became the 2020 benchmark. The State has been at the meeting of economic and financial measures to support the state of health emergency. The second objective was to protect the population in terms of health and finance until the situation changed. The PLFR4 provides for this. We have re-armed both the solidarity fund and the aid to the most vulnerable, to the people in difficulty. Contrary to what some have claimed, this second objective has been taken into account. Today, it is assumed for 2020. We have protected the population financially and economically. I will sum up this year's budget by saying that it has allowed a political adaptation to needs that we have discovered over the year that they are random and slippery, and therefore called for exceptional measures. The budget was alive. It required a permanent adjustment and – as you all pointed out – changes in the devices. It was necessary to reach the most targets and go to the strongest with better means. This was the objective of this new PLFR, which is in addition to the three previous ones. Beyond these general remarks on the year 2020, which will remain unique and essential for all, I welcome what has been done for this text, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate and in the CMP. The political collective won over partisanism. We have reabunded the solidarity fund by 10 billion. We spent $34 billion on partial unemployment. We have maintained and extended the EMPs. We have made some welcome adjustments in the CMP, which many have recalled. The AOM will only repay the advances after a return to good fortune, which is a good budgetary mechanism, and we have allocated 20 million to the Alpes-Maritimes hit by the storm. The debate took place in the Chamber in the National Assembly and the Senate. We can also welcome the inclusion of everyone in these measures. Let us not forget at last that the times are complicated for all. We know our businesses are suffering. We are also here to take responsibility for it. We will have to continue to adjust the devices. That's why you're here, Madam Secretary of State, and so are we. We will collectively be able to respond to all demands and demands, because it is our role: to adapt public finances to the needs and challenges of today's people. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The entire Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related Democrats will vote for the PLFR. Over the next few years, we will also be in solidarity with the economic and financial measures proposed by the State, as we guarantee not only the proper functioning of its budget, but also the consolidation of our businesses and our economic activities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u28	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u29	We are here today to endorse what should be – wish – the last amending finance bill of the year. If this is exceptional, it is not only because it is the fourth in 2020, but also because it fulfils, as we have already had the opportunity to say, a dual function. It is a traditional year-end collective budget – nothing exceptional until then – but it opens the necessary funds to support the affected economic sectors and the most modest households, in the face of the health crisis and the second containment. As a result, an additional EUR 20 billion will strengthen the support mechanisms that have proved their worth since the beginning of the crisis, as well as social aid for our fellow citizens who are in a more precarious situation. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the compromise reached by the Joint Joint Committee. A text reinforced by both the National Assembly and the Senate: 80 million will be released to support the automotive and aviation sectors, 30 million will provide support to associations and 330 million will be allocated to strengthen the poverty reduction plan. In our turn, we welcome the envelope of 25 million which will allow the recruitment of additional education assistants in colleges and vocational lycées, as well as that of 20 million allocated to the department of Alpes-Maritimes severely affected by natural disasters. The PLFR therefore provides for a massive scheme to try to support employment and the economy in an exceptional context. However, these horrific figures must not turn a blind eye to the extremely worrying economic and social state of our country. The companies have addressed the second confinement in a very degraded financial situation. Also the support devices, however massive they may be, always make forgotten. Together we talked about the famous "holes in the snowshoe". We must ensure the continuity of the rope to prevent some from falling into a catastrophic financial and social situation. I'll talk to you again about the extras of the restoration or the event. I know that the Government is still working to find a solution, but time is running out for those thousands of French people who do not benefit from any protection system, unlike their cousins in the entertainment sector, and who are now experiencing a real injustice that they no longer understand. I also want to mention the case of many ITEs – mid-size companies. In our ridings, the leaders of these companies alert us to their very delicate financial situation. The first confinement has absorbed all their cash and, when their outlets depend on the catering, hospitality or event sectors, they have seen their turnover collapse. The situation of these ETIs, too large to benefit from the solidarity fund but too small to absorb this massive shock, must challenge us. Finally, we realize that, in our territories, the criteria established by decrees are not always adapted to reality or needs. I hope that we will succeed in making them evolve, since you have already obtained, Madam Secretary of State, the extension of the famous S1 and S1 bis lists of activities and sectors affected by activity restrictions. The best solution is, of course, to allow our economy to return normally. The Group of the European People's Party asked the President of the Republic to reopen the shops on Friday. We very much hope to be heard. Since the beginning of the crisis, the vast majority of traders and restaurants have played the game. If necessary, they are ready to apply a new stricter sanitary protocol, but they simply want to work. Yes, if containment was necessary, we consider that the priority now is to adapt our society to the virus. Our thirty proposals are in this direction and, above all, they must help to limit the economic, social and psychological damage. We no longer have the means to keep France and the French under bells. Our economy is too fragile, as is the social acceptance of such measures. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will of course vote for this PLFR4, because it provides massive and indispensable assistance, but, Madam Secretary of State, the work must continue in order to continue to adapt this support to the real situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u30	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u31	It might as well be said right away: it will be difficult for the Socialist and related group to vote for the text. I will not go back to the form, which questions us and says a lot about the low level of respect that is given to our assembly for such important debates. I also regret the little attention you have paid to our amendments, which have been tabled constructively, and which are necessary to resolve the difficulties faced by our citizens and businesses. On the health environment and its budgetary consequences, which lead us to this PLFR4, we can share some elements of analysis that base your year-end forecasts. However, if it can be said that this text acts the degradation of the second wave, it would be fairer to recognize that it reflects a defeat after a failed defunction. Had it been better prepared both in advance of the pandemic – if the Government had listened better to the caregivers – than between the two waves, the budgetary impact of emergency measures could have been less. We wouldn't be there without this blatant impreparation. It would also not have been there if you had followed strictly Scientific Council Opinion No. 8 of 27 July 2020, which provided for a high level of virus circulation in October. You still do not react, when he confirms this opinion to you on 11 September and asks you for a quick reaction. If it is difficult to approve the text, it is also because it is not only an accounting document. It carries the genes of your strategy: debt financing; funding on the shoulders of social security – in other words, no tax increases immediately, which are only expected to take place between 2024 and 2033; more and more jobs on housing – a total of 1.8 billion euros – but no effort is required from the wealthiest. Our proposals in this direction have been swept away by a turnaround, whether it is the restoration of the ISF, the participation on income or the joint and several participation on the outstanding life insurance contracts of more than 100000 euros, or others. You have nothing to do with it, showing you as always weak with the strong and strong with the weak. It is still difficult to approve this text because of the economic choices you make in the recovery plan. For you and for him, there is only one policy: that of supply, at all costs. On the contrary, our vision – revealed by our proposals – strikes a balance between supply and demand policies. We say yes to the competitiveness of enterprises, if they are at the service of employment and virtuous for the environment. But we say yes, also, to supporting the most fragile purchasing power, for a revival through consumption. What support do you expect for the young people whose refrigerators are empty, and in the face of the explosion of inequality and poverty? The figures speak for themselves. There are 10 million people below the poverty line and 300,000 homeless. And, since your arrival in business, there have been more and more of them, while the rich keep getting richer. It is not we who say it: it is the actors on the ground and the INSEE. Finally, what about some of your measurements? The significant expenditures you incur should be better adjusted to the business lines. The text does not provide for any targeting in favour of our TPEs and SMEs, nor of our local businesses, and acknowledges your unfortunate decision to close them. The grunt of the traders is rising; The Government is rolling out a red carpet for the pujadists of all hairs! In the end, you may announce tomorrow the reopening of the shops, to save the face. Or perhaps not, we do not know: as usual, Jupiter decrees. Let us at least hope that this time it will not take two weeks of correction and denial. The mistakes you have made since the beginning, which you insist on not recognizing, lead small businesses to difficulties. Your corrections are worse than better: they have led to unfair competition from large distribution first, from online trading platforms then. You tighten the health protocol after trying to convince us that the problem lay in the restriction of movement. So what is the relationship between your diagnosis and the cure? In the meantime, you have refused our amendments on the tax on commercial surfaces – TASCOM. Don't you think the e-commerce giants have had enough fun? Amazon made a profit of 5.2 billion in the first half of the year. Mr. Deputy Minister for Public Accounts, do you not think that it would be good to push them to solidarity? You also refused Mrs Rabault's amendment, which was intended to suspend the amortization of the loans related to the production tool. Finally, we are wondering about the multiple cancellations of credits, and I am moving on. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] These are too many reasons why I said that it was difficult to approve this text, despite some progress made in the CMP in favour of local and regional authorities. That is why we will not approve of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u32	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u33	I shall put to the vote the whole of the amending finance bill for 2020, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u34	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u35	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u36	The next item is the debate on the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021 (No 3551, 3587).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u37	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u38	In view of all that the parliamentary debate allowed to bring to the bill on the financing of social security for 2021, first in this House a month ago, and then in the Senate more recently, it is indeed a new reading of the text that begins this afternoon. This PLFSS is, in many ways, exceptional. This is proof that the texts examined, debated and adopted in the Chamber have something to do with the lives of our fellow citizens, who have also been exceptional for several months. This text reflects clear choices. We could have done more: tighten the screw, reduce the sail or cut the tap,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u39	You know how to do that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u40	... the French language being rich in expressions to qualify austerity. This choice of austerity, the consequences of which would obviously have been dramatic, we have not done so. Protecting our citizens from a virus that has already killed more than 45,000 people in our country, supporting the hospital and all caregivers, advancing society by dedicating new rights, re-arming our social protection, is the choice we have made. As we begin this new reading, some measures are now stabilized. The national target of health insurance expenditure – ONDAM – for 2020, which had already been increased by EUR 10.1 billion in the original text, was increased by an additional 3.2 billion at the first reading, in order to take account of the additional costs associated with the covid-19 crisis and to accelerate the revalorisation of the salaries of our caregivers. An agreement has already been reached between your assembly and the Senate on several articles, not least. I am particularly pleased with the vote in accordance with the article on valuations in EHPADs, which will be 183 euros net per month in public and private non-profit EHPADs and 160 euros net per month in private for-profit EHPADs. We are all aware of the stakes of age and autonomy in our country, and of the commitment of those who work with our elders; There will be no one on your benches to believe that these increases are unwarranted. We can also welcome the consistent adoption of extended paternity leave; the corresponding title was voted almost unanimously in both chambers. An agreement was also reached on 27 other articles. I will mention in particular the financing of the covid premium for the employees of the home support services, the creation of a mission of general interest to combat violence against women – Élisabeth Moreno and I went earlier to the hospital Bichat, which opened a new house to accompany women victims of violence – and the guarantee of the paying third party and secrecy for the costs of a voluntary termination of pregnancy – IVG. The Government will call for the development of a few articles on which an agreement with the Senate is very close. I am thinking in particular of certain provisions relating to the fight against fraud. On the other hand, other provisions adopted by the Senate cannot be supported. The raising of the retirement age, to mention only this one, does not seem to me to find its right place in this PLFSS. Similarly, with regard to the unprecedented funding of the effort to upgrade the home help jobs, which are so vital for the support of the elderly, we believe that it is essential to return to a system that respects the competence of the departments. We are very clearly aiming for wage increases throughout the national territory, but we will not improve the policy of autonomy by depriving those responsible first. Knowing how much you are committed to it, I would like to reiterate that the purpose of this aid is, without doubt, to finance wage increases. By approving amendment No. 44 to the collective agreement of the home help branch, we have just demonstrated our ambition in this area. We will also have to ask ourselves about the creation of an autonomous branch specific to the agricultural sector – I discussed it with Mr Pascal Cormery, President of the Central Fund of the MSA, the Mutuality of Agricultural Social Affairs. In accordance with its mandate, the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government, CNSA, will continue to act in favour of all older persons and persons with disabilities, regardless of the social security system to which they are affiliated. In other words, agricultural workers and non-employees are covered, unambiguously. This in no way undermines the fundamental role of MSA in the territories in implementing health policies and supporting the autonomy of older persons and persons with disabilities. In order to remove any ambiguity, I would urge you to strongly reaffirm that the creation of the autonomous branch in no way dispossesssssssssssss the MSA's caisses of their missions and actions which contribute to the management of the loss of autonomy. Finally, how can we not regret the abolition of the debt recovery of hospitals, whose aim was to allow institutions to regain visibility and room for manoeuvre? By this vote, on which the Government will call you back, the Senate has removed 13 billion euros from this PLFSS for hospital support! Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of work to do. This exceptional PLFSS gives rise to sometimes lively, but always passionate debates. I am pleased to see that the hospital, the caregivers, the family, the old age, the autonomy fully mobilize the representatives of the nation. Nevertheless, it will be necessary to enable our health system and social protection as a whole to cope with shocks and to build a solid foundation for the years to come. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] France's major social policies are often formulated in adversity – social security has not been created in a period of calm and opulence. Let us live up to a historic challenge, let us be worthy of those who preceded us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u41	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u42	Since the presentation to you on October 21, this PLFSS has given rise, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, to numerous and nourished exchanges, which have enabled it to be substantially enriched. I don't go back on its content – you know it perfectly now. Rather, I would like to highlight the major changes that we wish to make to it, following its first reading by the Senate. First of all, I would like to mention the development of the growth forecast for 2021 and its impact on social security accounts. As you know, we are committed to the principle of budgetary sincerity and good information for Parliament. We have ensured that the articles of the PLFSS are updated in line with the decisions taken by the Government and the assessment of their impact on social finances. We revised the ONDAM for 2020 – first in your house, then again in the Senate – and the revenue projections for 2020 – in the Senate – to reflect the new containment period. Last Tuesday, we asked the High Council for Public Finance – HCFP – about the growth prospects for 2021. We are now assuming that GDP will increase by 6% and the wage bill by 4.8%, leading us to review the figures submitted to the Senate at first reading. We do not change the ONDAM for 2020, which seems to us not to be called into question by the new macroeconomic assumptions we have chosen, but we propose a revision of the revenues and, consequently, balances for 2021. For example, the deficit in the general scheme and the Old Age Solidarity Fund (FSV) is expected to be €35.7 billion in 2021, down $7.8 billion from the previous forecast. This deterioration is mainly related – for 6 billion – to the contraction of the wage bill in the private sector and, to a lesser extent, to the decrease in tax revenue forecasts due to the adjustment of the growth forecast for 2021. We have changed the period; We need to change and adjust our benchmarks. In particular, we need to work on new, more effective governance tools for our public finances, and to strengthen our capacity to redress post-crisis accounts, for example through a more multi-annual approach to public finances. We will work on this in the coming weeks and months, both for social finances and for state finances. I would also like to go back to the adjustments necessary for the finalization of social exemption schemes for companies affected first by curfew and then by confinement. At first reading, you adopted a government amendment to introduce an exceptional system of social exemptions along the lines of the one adopted this summer in the context of the third amending finance bill – PLFR3. During the first reading in the Senate of the review of the PLFSS for 2021, we modified this mechanism to adapt it to new health measures, including containment. Social exemptions are extended to all enterprises with fewer than 50 employees who have been banned from receiving public services, as well as to self-employed workers and farmers in the sectors concerned. I would like to stress this point, since it raised questions and concerns during the first reading of the text in the House. If you wish, the scheme will be supplemented by several amendments, in order to extend it by decree for the month of December 2020 and the year 2021, in order to adapt the conditions of eligibility of professional sports clubs to their specificities, in accordance with the announcements made by the President of the Republic. The total effort under these measures is estimated at an additional €3 billion. It will be offset by State budget appropriations for social security. We will also submit to you the possibility of extending the mechanism, if necessary adjusted, by decree, which would allow us to adapt to the evolution of health measures and thus not to have to delay – if necessary – the companies concerned, the time for new measures to be voted on a posteriori. We prefer to ask you for the possibility of extending this mechanism by decree, in order to be able to cover, sector by sector, any possible period of closure. In parallel with these improvements, we wish to return to the text adopted at first reading by the National Assembly and not to maintain the sectoral exemptions introduced in the Senate, because their superimposition with the provisions of common law is not justified. This is the case, for example, of the exemptions from employers' contributions for professional sports clubs, which will therefore be replaced by the adaptation of the common law system I have just mentioned. And this is also the case with the exemptions proposed for non-employees in the wine and sugar cane sectors, which I confirm are indeed eligible for the cross-sectional scheme. In addition, an article introduced by the Senate proposes the introduction of parametric measures to adjust the pension system's accounts by 2030, in order to meet the structural deficit of the old age branch. I have already had the opportunity to say so in this House, it is premature to embark on this path without a very broad preliminary debate with the social partners and the French, and in the absence of full legibility of the long-term consequences of the health crisis on the system of retirement or consultation upstream. The Pension Guidance Board – COR – has been instructed by the Prime Minister to carry out the updated diagnosis of the financial situation of the pension system. For this reason, the Government has not proposed any measures in this PLFSS. This does not call into question the need to provide, in due course, measures to restore the balance of the pension system and to strengthen the confidence of the French. But we believe that it is not today and by this text that the issue of pensions should be addressed. That is why we will propose that you do not maintain the provisions adopted by the Senate in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u43	These are appeals amendments from the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u44	Finally, we may have discussions tonight or tomorrow on the financial relations between the State and social security. Without denying the existence of two distinct spheres of financing and governance, I do not consider it desirable to make the relations between the State and social security extremely rigid. In fact, insured persons and businesses subject to social contributions and contributions, on the one hand, and tax taxpayers on the other, on the other, are often the same. The present crisis, with the massive exemptions from social contributions that we have decided, has shown this. Similarly, when it comes to the sustainability of public accounts and the quality of France's signature, there is, in the end, only one fund: that of the French. All the country's finances must therefore be taken into account. This debate on the possible tightness of the social and financial spheres of the State seems to me all the less opportune this year because the crisis has very strongly and indifferently degraded the accounts of the two spheres and because we have made the choice that the State take full responsibility for the specific exemptions to the health crisis. The budgetary effort is unprecedented, given that the envelope provided for in the third amending finance law for 2020 of 30 July was EUR 3.9 billion and that under the terms of the PLFR4 the final amount is EUR 8.2 billion for 2020. [[Mrs Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, applauds]] As you have understood, beyond our debates on the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021, it will of course be necessary to draw the consequences of the crisis that we are going through and to reflect on new perspectives. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that you will help us in this direction. With this in mind, I am very pleased to discuss with you the general discussion of this new reading, and then the discussion of the articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u45	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u46	After reading each of the two assemblies, the bill on the financing of social security for 2021, which initially included fifty-two articles, still had 125 articles under discussion: forty-two articles had been adopted in accordance with our two chambers, eleven adopted by the National Assembly had been abolished by the Senate and seventy-seven had been added by the Senate. Beyond the figures, this first reading reveals three categories of provisions. A first series contains provisions, whether they have been adopted in conformity or not, on which our two Assemblies agree. This is the case, for the fourth year in a row, of the so-called "digital" articles, which, I recalled in committee, have been the subject of very significant revisions both in the Assembly and in the Senate. These developments have made it possible for national representation to have as up-to-date data on the social security budget as possible at each stage of the discussion, on which we are called upon to decide. While this transparency effort was essential for our discussion to be sincere, it nevertheless deserves to be welcomed. Equally significantly, the National Assembly and the Senate have joined each other on so-called "letters" provisions – not least. Without claiming to be exhaustive, I shall mention a few of them. This is the case with the provisions contained in Articles 6a and 6b, respectively, concerning the extension of the social system of partial activity and the measures of exemption and aid for the payment of social contributions and contributions, measures to accompany undertakings and workers affected by the necessary restrictive measures imposed by the health crisis. He was pleased that both chambers had agreed on these essential measures to respond to the crisis. This is also the case with the governance of the new autonomous branch of social security, which is contained in article 16 and which was decided on this summer in the National Assembly. I can only be pleased that the Senate approves both the principles and the first organizational arrangements. The upgrading of the careers of hospital staff, as provided for in section 25, is also one of the points of agreement, even though the means given to the hospital and the remuneration of caregivers had been at the heart of the discussions between our two assemblies last year. This agreement bears witness, I believe, to the way we have come to give breath and perspective to the public hospital. Finally, among the consensual measures, I am also thinking of the granting of a new envelope dedicated to the treatment of domestic violence, provided for in Article 28a; the full-paying third party for the costs relating to GVI and 100% health basket care provided for in Articles 33a and 33c; the introduction of a system of daily allowances for the professions provided for in Article 34c; or the extension of paternity leave, with the mandatory seven-day period provided for in Article 35. The Senate has not only improved or confirmed provisions passed by the National Assembly, but has also added others, welcome, relating to the fight against fraud or autonomy with, in particular, the creation of a shared living allowance, in order to accelerate the development of inclusive housing for persons with disabilities. A second set of provisions, adopted by the Senate despite the unfavourable opinion of its Committee on Social Affairs and the Government, are not without serious problems, which may be technical or in principle. Most of them had been rejected for these reasons at first reading – in committee or in public sitting – in the Assembly. I am thinking in particular of many social niches, often unrelated to the exceptional context we know, whose effectiveness for the target audiences is not demonstrated. On my proposal, and in the interests of accountability, the Social Affairs Committee of the National Assembly has consistently proposed the deletion of these provisions. Finally, the two chambers took diametrically opposite positions with regard to the third and final set of provisions. This is the case with hospital debt, which is evidence of a falsely rigorous conception of the contours of social security on the part of the Senate, that we did not share in the review of the Social Debt and Autonomy Act, and that we still do not share. Without going into the technical aspects of this disagreement, I will simply say that the taste for perimeters, which may be as important as they may be on the historical and philosophical level between the State and social security, must never disturb the overall coherence of policies, particularly in the field of health. As rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, I am all the more calm as 2020 marks the welcome return of strict compensation to social security, including the exemptions and payment aids provided for in Article 65 of the LFR3 for 2020 and Article 6b of the PLFSS. Another major disagreement relates to the introduction by the Senate of a parametric pension provision in section 47d. On the form, this would have the effect of distorting the process initiated by the Government and according to which the Pension Guidance Board was entrusted with drawing up a diagnosis on the basis of which the social partners will decide. While opening a funding conference, the mechanism adopted by the Senate could lead to a far-reaching cut-and-cut reform in 2022. In substance, it would retain parameters, particularly with regard to the legal retirement age, which have no reason to be privileged over others – which only reinforces the need for in-depth consultation. Our majority has demonstrated its willingness to rethink the pension system in depth, but such a reform cannot save the economy either by concertation or by taking into account the very particular crisis context in which we are still plunged. Finally, more generally, the two chambers had very different approaches to social levies. At the outset, the Senate has increased the tax on complementary agencies in 2021, even though we do not yet have any certainty on such fundamental parameters as the rebound in health care consumption or the impact of the portability of fees on the accounts of these same organizations. He also upset the fine but balanced adjustment that had been found with regard to the TODE system – casual workers – job seekers. And he added new targeted, if not very targeted, exemptions, whose justification in a difficult time for the public accounts does not seem obvious to me. Responsibility requires the choice of the most effective and appropriate mechanisms for the crisis we are experiencing and not to multiply the publicity effects without questioning the cost of such approaches for social security in the medium and long term. With regard to the control of health expenditures, the Senate has similarly adopted surprising measures, given the current context and without the appearance of a global view of medically controlled risk. In particular, it has opened a significant gap in the coordinated care pathway in article 30 bis, while the latter is now widely consensual. In this new reading, it will therefore be our task, without surprise, to consolidate the very strong measures which have been the subject of convergence between our two assemblies, which have worked hard to improve the Government's text, but also to return to the wise balance found by our Assembly on the other points. We must constantly ensure that this text continues to reflect what social security can provide in response to the crisis. These may be short-term responses or longer-term perspectives for our model, such as hospital support, strengthened and more equitable support for the autonomy of older people or people with disabilities, or gender equality. From this point of view, the important step of this new reading obliges us. A temptation, which may be strong – it has sometimes been in the Senate – is that of overbidding on one device or another. No one underestimates the difficulties faced by many Frenchmen and by many economic sectors in this period, which will remain one of the most difficult ones we have had to face. The answer is, moreover, at the height of these difficulties. But it will be understandable, acceptable, legitimate and sustainable only if it is balanced and coherent. Strong, but temporary, responses to the economic crisis are needed. We must provide proportionate answers to the difficulties. To specific problems, we need to provide precise answers. To multiply the mechanisms of exemptions decorated with the consequences of the health crisis, we would definitely give up the spirit of responsibility that must drive our budgetary debates. That is why I will personally guarantee the balances that we found at first reading on many articles. It is a matter of the seriousness of what we are proposing to the French, of our collective capacity to find, in the medium term, a path towards the balance of social finances, and therefore of the credibility of this bill to finance social security by 2021. (Applause from the LaREM Group. – Mrs Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, also applauds.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u47	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u48	After a few weeks of absence during which I must have missed you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u49	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u50	... or not, here I am again. I cannot start my speech without greeting my colleagues from the "Rea Pic" – Picard Resuscitation – and thanking them for their welcome. What a great team! You are lucky, minister: if hospitals are to turn, it is thanks to the exhausted staff working on their days of rest and untaken leave, in a deafening media silence. Fortunately, they keep the sense of humor to bear the pain. While we're in the midst of a wave of epidemics, caregivers are again made invisible. Things would have become normal again. Well, no! It is not normal for caregivers to be unable to rest. No, it is not normal for students to have their training suspended to help caregivers. No, it is not normal for thousands of caregivers to have been excluded from Segur. What do you tell them, to all those who do not benefit from bonuses or salary increases on the pretext that they were not working in the right structure, even though they are dealing with the public affected by the virus? No, no and no, it's not normal for you to plan to tighten the belt again to our health care system for next year. You intend to withdraw EUR 4 billion from health insurance for 2021. We think we're dreaming! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In this bill, you are not treating social security, but you are treating your language: from now on, in Schedule 7 of the bill, we are talking no longer about economic measures, but about regulatory measures. The kings of communication are among us! No luck, we're impervious to your language of wood and we'll talk about budget cuts, because that's what this is all about. With you, hospitals must do more and more, without the means following. Like last year – because, obviously for you, nothing has happened in the space of a year – you plan to withdraw 800 million euros from the hospitals they desperately need, demanding service and bed closures, as well as postal abolitions. So that, for you, is the return to normal? How do you justify this liberal policy? Don't you learn anything? You could say you weren't responsible for the last 20 years, but not this time. You talk about restructuring the care offer, but let's call a cat a cat: this is indeed the continuation of the destruction of the public hospital. Mr Minister, do you not see work stoppages and resignations in the hospital as an alarm signal? Health students, caregivers, doctors suffer. Infernal turnover, destruction of hospital teams, incessant reminders on days off, moral or sexual harassment: as the texts of Sara Eudeline and Amélie Jouault describe, denigration, humiliation, harassment and violence would constitute a necessary passage during the passage of medical students to the hospital and, to a lesser extent, to the liberal cabinet. At a time when the public hospital and, more generally, the health system need to be strengthened, the State cannot allow future health forces to be abused. Now, what are you doing? To date, 180,000 state-qualified nurses have changed their profession. Why don't we audition these nurses we need so much at this time? We must understand their unease and under what conditions they would be ready to return. Why don't you set up a ratio of staff per patient in each hospital department, or per resident in EHPAD and in social and medical-social institutions? Such ratios guarantee the quality of care and good working conditions. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Another aberration of the bill is that to justify the decline in health insurance spending, you claim to want to save on the price of medicines. While drug shortages have been exploding since 2017, all our amendments to better regulate this market have been rejected and our proposal to create a public centre for the medicine swept away by a backhand, but you hope to reduce spending on medicines! In committee, our amendments would now be inadmissible at the sitting: again, this is a very abnormal return to normal. Are you asking: has this logic not lasted long enough? I've talked a lot about the world of health, but I don't forget that times are hard for many. We learned a few days ago that in just a month, the number of depressions had doubled, especially among the most vulnerable. I would like to show our solidarity with all these people: the temporary workers, the homeless and the students, who do not benefit from social minimums or partial unemployment; Small business leaders, artisans, traders, artists, who see their income melt, and so many others. I want to tell them the happy days will come back. And, in view of the increase in suicides among those affected by the crisis, I mean, here, to this Government that does nothing to redistribute wealth, these few words of Victor Hugo: " [...] I say that these are things that must not be; I say that society must spend all its strength, all its care, all its intelligence, all its will, so that such things are not! I say that such facts, in a civilized country, engage the conscience of the whole society". As we go through a health crisis that no one was prepared for, with a ruined hospital and exhausted caregivers, you propose a PLFSS that prefers the spirit of fiscal responsibility to the requirement to rebuild our care system. From a hollow text, you make a success story by dressing it with adjectives: exceptional, historical, never seen, unpublished, protective, solidarity, looking towards the future.... You think you did the job by putting in place these successive confinements, restrictions on freedoms, culture, society! We are deprived of everything because you give up everything. How can you satisfy yourself with the tremendous resistance of our hospitals and caregivers during the first wave? This humanistic and committed rampart will still hold for the second wave, but until when? They, the hospital staff and the caregivers, are exceptional, protective and supportive, not you, with your failed Segur and a PLFSS that misses the moment we live. As evidence, while the Prime Minister was visiting the Brest hospital last Friday, the unions were forcibly detained when they wanted to send him a letter in which they told him of the difficulties encountered by the staff, the deterioration of working conditions or the situation of the excluded. It's all right, circulate, since you're told that Segur is exceptional! It's not the hospital staff that's gonna tell us there's trouble in the hospital! Of contempt, again of contempt, always of contempt: war, you do not declare it to the virus, you declare it to the French. What will you do when a third wave arrives? An accounting audit? Our hospital is not well; our EHPADs are not well; our social and medico-social institutions are not well; our caregivers are not well; our students are not doing well; The French and French are not doing well. On the other hand, ah yes, Amazon is fine; insurers are doing well; The pharmaceutical industry is fine; the big distribution is fine. This is the consequence of your management, this is the injustice of La République en marche, this is what history will remember from your passage to the handlettes of this great country that is France. You and your government are the guarantors of the holy trinity of the liberals: general free trade, free and undistorted competition, fiscal austerity. But you're never up to the stakes. Unlike you, who take Margaret Thatcher's words too literally when she said: "Society does not exist, only individuals are worth," we think that it is together that we will achieve it, that freedom has such a value that it cannot be taken hostage by the lack of means of hospitals, that poverty and misery are the real evils that must be fought and that the excellence of research and university are the guarantees that enable solutions to be found, when a virus like covid -19 comes knocking on the door of our society. We believe that the spirit of mutual aid and scientific collaboration prevails over the competition of pharmaceutical companies, engaged in a race whose finish line is marked by a market valuation curve. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] You tell us there's no magic money. But, for the first time in history, the financing of social security will come more from taxation than from social contributions. You reorganize this budget by allocating the money from work and the poor people without ever imagining the participation of capital and the great possessors. It's not a health policy, it's a dogma; That's what makes us different. As a matter of responsibility, we have proposed amendments to try to meet the expectations of the French; Out of irresponsibility, you didn't listen, you didn't accept anything, you rejected everything. That is why we submit to the national representation a motion for the prior rejection of a text which expresses, by its spirit and in its letter, all its contempt for the caregivers, sacrificed on the altar of your blindness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u51	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote, the floor is Mr Joël Aviragnet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u52	To the extent that the text has been amended several times by the Government, in particular with regard to ONDAM, so that the budgetary balances are no longer the same as at the outset, and given the short time between the Joint Committee and the examination of the text in committee, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of the motion for prior rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u53	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u54	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u55	The Group of the European People's Party will, as a matter of principle, vote against this motion of rejection. We are here to debate; To reject this text is not to debate it, but I hope that we will have some debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u56	It was not us who removed the motion for referral to committee from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u57	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mrs Fiat, you have finished your remarks by saying that adopting the text would be a sign of contempt for the healthcare staff; On the contrary, it is not to discuss it that would be contempt. Let us discuss this text, and adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u58	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u59	The Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand. It is a bit sad to talk about a motion of rejection when we are at this point plunged into a health crisis – we should talk about a crisis of authority, because that is what we are going through. We would have liked the text to go back and forth to include improvements to help the public hospital, which is so valuable to all French people and which is now in a state of suffering. Unfortunately, financial support is not up to the challenge; The PLFSS contains some progress, but these are insufficient. While we can welcome the creation of the fifth branch, we still do not know how it will be financed. The Liberties and Territories Group will therefore join the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u60	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u61	Finally, macronya is the biggest cabaret in the world. The magician begins his act: 10 million poor people hinder the sixth richest economy in the world? Abracadabra, you are removing the National Observatory for Poverty and Social Exclusion – ONPES; 5 euros less APL and, hop, more problem! In any case, the poor don't exist. The proof is, you've never seen one in your life. It's Mrs. Irma's turn to make her entrance. A student immolates himself to denounce precariousness; Psychological disorders increased by 21% with confinement, especially among younger people. "I see, I see, I see... a green number" – closed in the evening and at the weekend, of course! The illusionist: police violence shakes the country? Paf, a law on global security! More images, more police repression; Nothing simpler. Be careful, the nail of the show! Applause the contortionist. In the midst of a pandemic, Emmanuel Macron told us: "Health has no price. The Government will mobilize all the financial resources necessary to save lives, no matter what the cost. But in order not to make him lose his title as president of the rich, you propose us to vote 800 million euros of savings on the public hospital. I mean, the comic number. You didn't do anything to stem the second wave? Is the public hospital destroyed and the caregivers breathless? Tadam, the Prime Minister just has to visit a hospital to show that he is close to the ground. And hop, you keep the unionists at the Brest hospital on their premises, guarded by police officers and a security officer from Matignon. That way, no one will say anything unpleasant. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You're the geniuses of the pass tricks. Unfortunately, when the evening ends, the cabaret closes and the problems are still there. Stop your circus, the health situation deserves better than your smoke! More than 7,500 beds have been closed since 2017, and thirteen hospitals continue to remove them. Minister, we want ways to recruit caregivers, equipment in beds, free masks, and the public center of the drug. The group of La France insoumée will obviously vote in favour of this rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u62	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u63	Imagine that this motion was adopted; Would it really be a tragedy, like the fear Agnes Firmin Le Bodo? I don't believe it. Rather, it would send an extremely strong signal to the Government, which would be obliged to present us with a new project. This would be necessary, since this draft law on the financing of social security is clearly not in line with the needs of the moment; It is not up to the challenges we face. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is therefore necessary to put the work back on the job. This is all the more necessary because we are all terrified by a question: are the resources needed for social security to cope with the current challenges guaranteed? As the proposals currently on the table do not make it possible to be certain, the GDR Group will vote in favour of this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u64	Mrs Iborra has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u65	This PLFSS for 2021 is undeniably out of standard, both because of the health crisis and its impact on social finances and because of the transformations it allows. These changes are necessary, and we will continue to defend them tomorrow as we do today. Conventional recipes and political postures do not meet such a challenge; in view of the stakes, they are even derisory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u66	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u67	Supporting this motion to reject beforehand means voting against the resumption of hospital debt; against wage measures in hospitals and EHPADs; against the financing of the fifth branch; against the release of $200 million to raise the salaries of home help professionals – which you claim to defend;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u68	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u69	...against the advance payment of the birth grant and the doubling of the period of paternity leave. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's your choice. As for us, members of the Group of the Republic on the move, we will vote in favour of these provisions, with great pride.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u70	She put the church back in the heart of the village!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u71	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u72	The text returns to our chamber today after some improvements made by the Senate. Members of the Republicans group keep a few regrets. Firstly, we regret that the development of health insurance funding is still not on the agenda. While we are at the height of the health crisis, we see that the health insurance revenues are no longer sufficient to cover expenditure and that the same will be true in the future. It is more than urgent to open this debate. Second regret: Mr.Minister of Health, you have recognized in recent days that the question of the mental health of the French people is a matter of concern. It is, of course, and the problem is not new; It probably appeared during the first confinement. However, this PLFSS for 2021 does not devote an extra cent to mental health. You have called for family solidarity and compassion, but they will not suffice to remove this suffering that spreads at low noise. Three more of our regrets relate to the progress being made in the Senate. The farmers' voice was not heard, concerning some technical adjustments. The firefighters, who rightly claim a contribution exemption from the wage share of the fire premium, have not been more so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u73	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u74	Finally, how can we not renew the expression of our astonishment that conventional negotiations with liberal doctors have been sent back to the Greek calendes, despite the debates that have taken place in the National Assembly and the Senate. [[Applause on the benches of the Republicans Group]] In short, we must continue to debate. That is why the Republican Group will not support the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u75	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u76	[["Oh! » on the benches of the FI group]] The Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats are opposed to this motion for a preliminary rejection, which essentially reflects a political stance. On the form, first of all: every year, parliamentarians have to vote on the PLFSS in order to organise the financing of social security for the coming year. The debates – I want them to be constructive, and I am sure that our colleagues in the group of France who are unsubstantiated will not deprive themselves of their participation in them – will inform the House; the right of everyone to vote against it. Rejecting the text before the discussion would therefore have absolutely no democratic interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u77	We may disagree, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u78	In substance, our group continues to believe that the large-scale financial effort provided for in this text – subject to the reinstatement of several provisions deleted by the Senate – will help to upgrade the healthcare professions and strengthen the social and health protection of our fellow citizens. By adopting it, we are acting on the levers necessary to deal with the crisis. Our group, I repeat, will vote against this motion and affirm its willingness to conduct a dense and respectful debate in the coming hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u79	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u80	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 84 Number of votes cast 83 Absolute majority 42 For adoption 10 Against 73
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u81	Mr Joël Aviragnet spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u82	We are approaching the new reading of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021 in a context strongly marked by the covid -19 epidemic. This year, this PLFSS is based more than ever on precarious foundations, undermined by many uncertainties related to the health crisis. These uncertainties relate first and foremost to a potential vaccination campaign, for which 1.5 billion euros are currently included in the budget. While several laboratories have published promising results and our neighbours seem to be actively preparing to vaccinate at least part of their population, nothing has been specified by the Government regarding the scope and objectives that such an operation would have in France, or on the priority audiences to be targeted or on whether or not vaccination is mandatory. This prevents us from accurately and realistically estimating the cost of this campaign. The uncertainty then relates to the nature of the social security budget, since the balance of social accounts has been changed as a result of developments in the pandemic and the measures adopted to respond to it. Since the beginning of the review of this text, developments in the health crisis, curfew and reconstitution have led to major reassessments of the initial budget forecasts. Between first reading in the Assembly and in the Senate, funding to deal with the health crisis increased by €800 million. This is a new cyclical response to a crisis which reveals the structural flaws of our health system. It is, moreover, the lack of a response to the lasting crisis that this system is experiencing that your text is the most disappointing. We all know the symptoms: the public hospital is dying, and the quality of care provided to the French has deteriorated significantly. The health crisis has increased the debt of social security because of the additional health-care costs it causes and the reduction in the revenue generated by the slowdown in economic activity. But your decisions have made a powerful contribution, since you have imposed on the social accounts the cost of the contribution exemptions you have made. In doing so, you are impoverishing our social protection system, while on the contrary you should strengthen it to deal with the pandemic. While the exemption from contributions has increased during the two successive confinements, the State, once again, will not compensate social security for the debt that its political choices make it bear, in violation of the Veil Act of 1994. The adoption in the Senate of an amendment to partially correct this lump sum is an important step forward in this regard, and we hope that the measure will continue after this review. The challenge of this PLFSS is to respond to the crisis without straining the capabilities of our social protection system. These two objectives must be pursued together. However, the response to the epidemic crisis could lead to a lasting weakening of social security. The crisis of hospitals did not date from the covid-19; Our health care system is out of breath. It is therefore necessary to provide a long-term solution to the crisis in public hospitals, to effectively support our caregivers, to open beds, to recruit additional staff. These measures are urgent, unavoidable, no matter what the cost. If there are several provisions in this bill that reward the mobilization of caregivers, it should be noted that there is a great deal of forgotten health care – I am thinking in particular of DAIS professionals, home care nursing services. Furthermore, nothing is being done to effectively alleviate the suffering of public hospitals; There is still a lack of beds, understaffed services are legions, and equipment is sometimes lacking. Under these conditions, requiring 800 million savings from the public hospital in 2021 amounts to knowingly weakening the quality of care of all French people. Similarly, to introduce a compulsory package of 18 euros for each emergency is to condemn the health of the most precarious. This gradual privatisation of emergencies will lead many of the poorest citizens, already heavily affected by the crisis, to give up care. Unsurprisingly, the Socialist and Related Group will maintain its demands during this new reading, and will advocate for a system of fair, egalitarian, inclusive and efficient care. It is imperative to mobilize for public hospitals and caregivers, in order to respond effectively to their needs, as well as to those of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u83	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u84	We have already had the opportunity to report on the significant progress that this draft budget will make. We also delivered a speech of truth about its shortcomings and the improvements that need to be made. Let's talk first about progress. This PLFSS fulfils the strong commitments made during the Ségur de la santé in favour of the hospital and the EHPADs. This is an unprecedented step forward and a measure of justice for caregivers. The recovery of 13 billion hospital debt is an excellent decision, which will make it possible to revive the current investment in the hospital and to clean up its financial situation. I am therefore surprised at the will of the Senate to remove a long-standing provision that has been requested by all actors. Similarly, extending paternity leave is a step forward for our society. This is a new step towards real equality between men and women, especially with regard to work. However, care should be taken to ensure that this measure does not penalise small businesses. As for the payment of the birth premium before the birth of the child, it is a good signal to families, whose lives must be simplified if we are to revive the birth rate in our country. However, there are still several points on which the debate should continue. At first reading, our assembly unanimously adopted a government amendment providing for the salary adjustment of home trades, which play an essential role. This was a necessary first step, but it will have to be extended quickly in the future law of old age. Home help professionals are not affected by the revalorisations decided during the Segur, and they are living very badly this lack of recognition. It is urgent to say so and to learn from it, because the situation has become almost explosive. The Senate hoped that the EUR 200 million that the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government should distribute to departments from 2022 would be a fixed sum and not a ceiling. If we can discuss the method chosen, the subject deserves a real debate. By making the payment of aid by CNSA conditional on a contribution from the departments, we are taking the risk of increasing the inequalities between those who will have the means to act and others. I take this opportunity to alert you to the deep malaise that also affects city medicine. Declare at 2023 the signing of a new medical agreement between health insurance and liberal doctors is not a good policy. It is imperative to respond to the sense of abandonment that they express. We have been particularly challenged this week by the liberal radiologists. Their hot reaction to the repeal of section 99 of the SFSA for 2017 reflects their exasperation. Minister Agnès Buzyn had committed herself to permanently abolishing this measure, which makes it possible to disregard the treaty negotiations before 1 January 2021 at the latest. However, the absence of such a provision in the PLFSS was interpreted as a reversal of the Government, despite the words given. We have to answer that. In my personal capacity, and pending further information, I am very reserved as to the position of the rapporteur to delete Rule 33 bis A, added to the Senate. In addition, I would like to draw the Government's attention once again to the catastrophic situation of the distribution wholesalers, some of whom could put the key under the door. I know you're paying attention to it. Compensation for losses related to covid-19 was necessary, but it does not answer the question of the structural balance of the sector. It is imperative to find a solution and to carry out structural reform in consultation with the actors concerned – they are ready to do so. After three years of consultation with the administrations, you have to take on a real political choice. Finally, I would like to return to the importance of treatment in crisis management. Article 45 of the PLFSS provides for the inclusion in ONDAM for 2021 of a provision of EUR 4.3 billion to continue the management of the crisis; It covers tests, masks and vaccines, but does not seem to take into account antiviral treatments, which will be a complementary brick in the crisis management arsenal. Treatments of this type are being developed, along with vaccine development, and some could enter the market before or at the same time as vaccines. The arrival of one or more vaccines may not immediately achieve collective immunity: a number of people will continue to be infected. Pending sufficient immunization coverage to stop the epidemic, the provision of antiviral treatments, aimed at reducing the viral load of patients and the clinical impact of the disease, could prevent the disease from evolving into severe forms. In this way, we could prevent congestion in hospitals, reduce the risk of contamination and limit the duration of isolation. It seems important to include such an approach in the crisis management plan, and to include salaries in the provision under Article 45. The PLFSS for 2021 reflects real progress. Despite the few differences I have just mentioned, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u85	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u86	We are addressing, again, the review of the PLFSS for 2021 in a widely amended version by the Senate, and in a context of general concern about the health system and the balance of social security finances. While the French are particularly committed to their social protection, they see clearly that their organization is at a crossroads and that it faces major challenges. The concern expressed by our fellow citizens requires a strong executive response and operational translation into the PLFSS. We do not dispute it: your mobilization translates into social accounts, and the figures submitted to us are evolutionary in a changing context. However, there is a lack of guidelines in the text to reform social protection structurally and to restore the long-term balance of social accounts. Many arbitrations carried out during the health crisis to support health facilities, as well as the modalities for steering the provision of care, have been guided by principles of fairness and transparency towards the health actors of all statutes. It seems fundamental to sanctify these principles in the functioning of our health system. The IDU and Independent Group joins the Government on various provisions of the text. This includes, in particular, efforts to promote the development of telemedicine – fully supported –, the extension of paternity leave, the exceptional contribution on contributions received by supplementary health insurance organizations, the reform of the compensation of liberal professionals during work stoppages, or the payment of the birth premium before a child comes into the world. However, these measures remain incomplete and lack prospects for the sustainability of the system by future generations. We welcomed the Government's ambition to integrate the measures emanating from the Ségur de la Santé into the PLFSS, to give a concrete form to the recognition due to caregivers, and to support the modernization of institutions. A year ago, in November 2019, in response to the crisis in the hospital – long before the arrival of the covid-19 – it was announced that the state budget would resume hospital debt for three years, starting in 2020. We regret the disengagement of the State in this regard. Why further increase a deficit budget after the end of the covid crisis by adding debt to the debt? We also need a real strategy of hospital supply, which will ensure an equitable territorial distribution of health facilities, taking into account the needs of the territories and populations. The UDI and independent group, like the Union centriste du Sénat group, has also made concrete proposals to combat social fraud: experimenting with biometric vital cards, controlling the affiliation of foreign insured persons in France, or merging directories. While the majority was preparing to reject those mechanisms, it was urgent that the Government, in turn, should submit its proposals. Finally, this year marks the creation of the famous fifth branch devoted to autonomy. Many questions and concerns remain about its funding, which cannot be based primarily on the widespread social contribution – CSG – with its scope and governance. While the Libault report called for the fifth branch to be created on the occasion of the extinction of the social debt, so that the proceeds of the contribution for the repayment of the social debt – CRDS – could support it, the extinction of the debt was postponed to a distant horizon. We may therefore have to explain to our fellow citizens, in particular to those in need, that the creation of the fifth branch will not change their daily lives. In conclusion, the new reading of the PLFSS gives us the opportunity to consider a text that is significantly different from that adopted by our Assembly at the end of last month. Can we imagine that between the text adopted by the Assembly and the text adopted by the Senate, we will find a common ground sufficiently united to undertake the in-depth reforms that the social security system needs? At first reading, we announced our wish that the text be enriched by the Senate. The Government is now faced with a choice that will be indicative of its intentions – the abolition in committee last week of a large number of amendments made by the Senate suggesting a similar attitude in the Chamber. Our vote will depend on the choices that the Government will make during the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u87	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u88	The first and second confinement, as well as curfew measures, have had disastrous consequences for our economy and our social accounts – not to mention, of course, the consequences for public health. In such a context, the examination of the PLFSS is complex, but its stakes are vital – especially since the health crisis revealed how high expectations were about the virtue of social and economic dampening of social security. More than ever, we need a solid and well-organized health care system. However, the health crisis has been the catalyst for a situation that has been fragile for too long. Our health care system – especially the public hospital service – is out of sight: services are saturated and over-solicited; too few caregivers do not count their hours and are physically and morally exhausted. Under these harmful conditions, it is easy to understand why they choose to leave the hospital. Some decisions have been difficult to admit. For example, city physicians and the entire liberal health system were kept out of the way, which increased pressure on the public hospital. Let us also recall the initial lack of resources and equipment, and the absence of immediate measures to strengthen the care teams, while a training plan, or adapted prevention protocols in the territories, were required during confinement. At the time of the breakdown, the Government indicated that it was being prepared. However, the weeks that followed gave the impression of a lack of anticipation and preparation. Not only is the Segur of Health – about which the Government and the majority distribute satisfaction – only a catch-up, but it is also insufficient to meet present and future needs. A Segur II is waiting, giving multi-year visibility, and meeting the expectations and commitment of all caregivers. The health system remains fragmented, and territorial governance stifles under the weight of a plethora of inadequate administration. We need to completely review the governance of the health system, and question the relevance of regional health agencies – RHAs. The plan for my health 2022, designed to improve cooperation between hospital and city medicine, was certainly initiated, but it was damaged as soon as the first covid patient appeared. This meeting between a real territorialisation of health and a refinancing of the public hospital is definitely missed. In October already, I was calling before you the field of psychiatry. Here again, the opportunity to instil a new dynamic and to deal with difficulties escapes you. It is increasingly urgent to take this subject in arms-to-body, as the policy pursued since March makes us fear for the mental and mental health of our fellow citizens – we have alerted you on several occasions. A recent FIFG study shows that 33% of our young people have seriously thought about suicide in 2020 – I say 33%, ladies and gentlemen! The figures are similar, or very similar, for artisans, business leaders, entrepreneurs and isolated elderly people. The Government referred to these alerts in its latest statements; Unfortunately, the PLFSS does not respond. In particular, it plans to postpone the financing reform and to block the reorganization. You cannot simply say that you have become aware of the ill-being of the French: you must take action. It would be a double speech to see the explosion of the psychic difficulties of our fellow citizens without devoting all the necessary resources to it. As for the questioning of government decisions, I would point out that it does not belong to scientists whose mental health would be weakened... We will again propose a number of amendments to go back to some of the provisions of Article 42. I hope that this time we will have a real debate with you, Minister, after a first reading characterized by the brevity or even absence of your answers. The Libertés et Territoires Group continues to regret that new funding is not devoted to the autonomy of older people and people with disabilities, while one of the key measures of the bill is the creation of a new branch dedicated to autonomy. In line with its vote on first reading, and if the general economy of the text is not changed, our group will vote almost unanimously against this bill on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u89	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u90	France and the world are still trapped in the health crisis, of which we do not know how long it will last. The latest report of the Scientific Council indicates that the second wave may not be completed until the beginning of next year, that a third wave is likely in the winter, followed, why not, by a fourth wave in the spring. The main challenge is therefore to limit the circulation of the virus to the maximum, without France living at the rate of successive confinements and deconfinations. Before being appointed Prime Minister, Mr. Castex was presented to us as "Mr. Definitely." Let us say it without ambiguity: the deconfination has been completely missed. It was therefore necessary to reconvene; But this reconfinition is incoherent: what is there to risk in a small local business, that you will not risk in a crowded metro train? It's incomprehensible! While waiting for an effective vaccine, and especially medicines, alternatives to containment must be planned, i.e. methods to contain the virus's circulation without resorting to general confinement. This is the meaning of a comprehensive document that the Group of the European People's Party will present tomorrow, in addition to our eleven proposals as well as five plans – including a comprehensive plan for deconfining –, four guides and 180 pages of committee of inquiry report, all of which you have systematically swept away, you who now rule only within the famous defence council – as if the virus had any military strategy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I am thinking of the health workers who face the second wave, often without pause or truce since the first wave, despite the exhaustion it caused. If it is necessary to limit the circulation of the virus, there is an urgent need to strengthen the health system. This health crisis is first and foremost the failure of a model and its dogmas, such as that of the suppression of beds in the hospital. In 20 years, 100,000 beds have been closed in the hospital and 7400 in just two years under your majority. And these bed closures continue despite the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u92	Thus, in the midst of a health crisis, at least thirteen hospitals continued to lose places. "It's not a problem of means, it's a problem of organization," even said Emmanuel Macron in front of the health staff of a hospital. In fact, you argue that this PLFSS foresees an increase of considerable resources, but if we remove the exceptional measures related to the crisis of the covid, we realize that the trajectory is unchanged: it is indeed that of additional savings on our health system, that is, that even disasters are not enough to change your mind. France is a rich country with more and more poor people – soon 10 million people – while a tiny minority is getting richer and richer. And while poverty has recorded records that have never been reached since the Second World War, this is the time you choose to introduce the mandatory payment of 18 euros for any transition to emergencies that would not be followed by hospitalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u93	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u94	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u95	Don't forget that 45% of French people have already given up their health care for budgetary reasons, that 3 million of them are without mutual funds, which have increased their rates by 47% in ten years and, no doubt, will pass on to their tariffs the additional costs incurred by taking over the 18 euros you set up. You say you want to empower people, but people don't go to the ER for fun. When they do not go there for a vital emergency, they go there because they fail to assess the seriousness of what they feel and sometimes wait hours before being taken care of. On average, 30% of passages require hospitalization. But 20% of French people say they have gone to the emergency room in the last two years because they have not found a doctor to meet their needs, and 3.8 million people live in a medical desert. You say you want to avoid the leftovers that are too heavy, but it was you who increased them in 2019 by pushing the amount of the package to 24 euros. On every occasion, we will have to remind the French that the lack of resources to which the health system to which they are attached is the corollary of the decrease in social contributions to which you are making, because they are the ones who finance it. In power, we will repeal this provision of paid emergencies. Back to your choices, if we had to remember some of our own, we are for additional human and material means to rebuild the hospital, for the construction of a public center of the medicine in order to discover and manufacture in France the essential molecules, for the "100% social security" rather than the business of mutuals for profit and the costs that it generates. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Health has no price, the head of state said. The Government will do what is necessary, no matter what the cost, he added. He was content to say it; We'll do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u96	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u97	Coronavirus continues to plague the country, our health care system continues to be under stress, and yet the budget that you are presenting continues to shrink. In particular, you continue to ask for savings from the hospital. This budget is not up to the situation. The crisis will have lasting effects. Women and men are affected by the lack of social ties and opportunities; Our psychiatry services are already in trouble. Postponement of care will also worsen the health of women and men. In all services, staff sound the alarm. Of course, your project translates the measures of the Segur of Health, which have been granted in bad grace after years of struggle. But they are not enough because they do not allow a full catch-up and do not place us in the first part of the European pay table. Moreover, they are incomplete, unjust and unequal. Throughout the country there is a strong protest, that of the forgotten of the Segur. In my constituency last Thursday, there was a gathering at which the medical and social workers sent me petitions and letters addressed to you and which I will hand over to you, Minister, after my intervention. This choice is simply indefensible and untenable. How can we explain that, in the same service, under the same statute, some benefit from these measures and others do not? Instead of uniting and energizing, these decisions led to division. Fifty-five thousand agents are involved: you must integrate them into the system without delay; It's a matter of respect. I also want to take this opportunity to express the indignation felt by second-year nursing students who have seen their curriculum interrupted overnight in my area. Why didn't you try to articulate with their training the commitment they have made to come to the reinforcement of medical personnel? They and they feel that they are not respected, which is a big deal in terms of the issues at stake. Frankly, such signals are not likely to create the air call we need. There is an urgent need to open recruitment and training offices in institutions. The second line of strength of this budget is the draining of social security resources as a result of the exemption from contributions. You have extended, for example, the devices designed to encourage the distribution of free shares – one of those sad passions to which you are regularly allowed to go. You pick again and in a very rude way in various caisses, such as the health insurance fund of the electrical and gas industries – CAMIEG – or the pension and pension fund of the staff of the SNCF – CPRP – and you continue to make mutuals tax collectors on behalf of the State. All this is not healthy. Rather than burdening social security with debt and non-accountable expenditure, we should consolidate it to enable it to deal with the health and social crisis over the long term. Because poverty is increasing, Minister Delegate: that's what all solidarity associations on the ground say, that's what the explosion of the number of beneficiaries of the RSA shows, that's what economic studies show that you observe the effects of your budgetary choices. There is concern, particularly about young people, many of whom remain under radar. How can we still accept this? Similarly, the need for autonomy is still acute. Now, two times you're making the trumpets sound about it while just blowing air in pipes. One thing is certain: this is now the aid for autonomy outside the rules of social security. I could also refer to the drug policy which suffers from a lack of a public strategy. As shortages multiply, we rely on the market instead of creating a public hub, Sanofi closes a laboratory in Strasbourg and continues its job cuts by hundreds in research, and Big Pharma sells a vaccine that we have not yet validated. At a time when we are concerned about the availability of a covid vaccine, I ask the question: when are we finally going to give ourselves the means to weigh on drugs? I also want to say how baffled I have been to see the Republicans in the Senate taking advantage of the review of this budget to vote for the anti-social measure of delaying the retirement age and extending the contribution period. I hope – but your comments on this subject have not reassured me at all – that this provocation will not give you the taste of returning to it, since in essence you are converging with the intention of attacking the right to retirement. Our people are going wrong. The manner in which the Government managed the health crisis had fuelled mistrust rather than placed society in a position of struggle and mobilization. This virus has led us to plunge our public and social organization into a revealing bath: we must dare to look at the images that come out of it. It is not enough to give up a little ballast, other political choices are necessary and urgent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u98	Mrs Audrey Dufeu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u99	Since the first reading of the Social Security Financing Bill, our country has had to deal with a second epidemic wave. I stress once again the historic aspect of the budget text proposed by the Government: it is at the height of this unprecedented crisis. The answers given are, I believe, without equal: they are in line not only with the wishes of the professionals and the rest of our fellow citizens, but also with the expectations of the oppositions on these benches. Thus, as they asked for more resources for hospitals, we decide on a historic increase of ONDAM,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u100	Just enough to deal with the covid crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u101	... with a total of more than €12 billion added to the hospital budget in 2020. But progress is not limited to 2020, since the Government proposes to set ONDAM for 2021 at more than €217 billion, including €92.7 billion for the hospital. While some progress has been made in the Senate, I deeply regret the removal of some key measures, such as section 27, which provides for the resumption of hospital debt. The right and left of the Senate agreed on this point without providing any solution to increase the investment capacity of hospitals. Our responsible majority will restore this article. The recovery of the debt of public hospitals represents millions of euros for each institution concerned, and up to tens of millions of euros for the local hospital system. It is unfortunate that honourable senators wanted to prevent this budgetary breath. The opposition also wanted a better recognition of the caregivers: by concretizing the conclusions of the Ségur de la santé, the PLFSS will allow more than 1.5 million hospital and EHPAD employees to see their salary increase by more than 220 euros net per month. Similarly, thanks to the mobilisation of many parliamentarians on these benches, we unanimously decided to devote more than EUR 200 million to increasing the remuneration of home helpers. Homeworkers, often women, deserve it. We hope that the departments will assume their responsibilities so that they can benefit, as soon as possible, from a wage increase. We know that some caregivers, such as those in ASCIS – home nursing services – or other medical and social sectors are also impatient and aggrieved, but I am confident that the ongoing negotiations on this subject will soon be successful and will restore fairness to their benefit. We have also advanced on the construction site of the fifth branch dedicated to the management of the autonomy aid. More than ever before, the crisis that we are experiencing reveals the shortcomings in the support of seniors and our deep need to strengthen our public policies for self-reliance. In this respect, the creation of a specific branch is a historic step forward. We will have to continue to structure it so that real cross-cutting public policies can be orchestrated in a second stage. Ladies and gentlemen, we can be proud to vote for this text in a new reading. Even in the midst of an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis, we do not forget the essential, which is why we vote on the laws: the protection of citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, this bill is designed to ensure a strong social security system that can protect people from the events of life, whether it be family, illness, occupational health, old age or now self-help. That is why our Group, the Republic on the move, will ensure that its text is re-established in a coherent and transparent manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u102	Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u103	It is in a context as particular as it is difficult for our country that we are considering today, in new reading, the bill to finance social security for 2021. There is no shortage of ambitions, nor is spending without funding. After at least three disappointing PLFSSs, a crisis of yellow vests of an unprecedented scale, demonstrations of regular caregivers between autumn 2019 and spring 2020, all followed by an unheard-of health crisis leading to the Ségur de la santé, the social security budget for 2021 was supposed to be historic – in any case in these terms this text was presented by the Government to the national representation. We are talking about an unprecedented, extraordinary text with the most ambitious reforms this year. This is more of a language element than a tangible reality. The French know this, feel it and do not fail to question us daily about it. They are legitimately very worried and are still waiting for strong measures, up to the problems that are ravaging our society. The concern is all the more acute as the deficit in social accounts is abyssal. The reason for this is simple: the epidemic of covid-19 has generated considerable expenditure, to compare the loss of revenue caused by the fall in economic activity and by a wage bill in dungeon. Let us add that economic and growth forecasts are difficult to calculate since for several months France has been constantly living in total uncertainty. We are living in a second confinement, and unfortunately no one can rule out that extreme measures will no longer speed up our daily lives in the coming months. Uncertainty, lack of projection and anticipation: this is now the only road map to which the French are subjected in the greatest disarray. Rigor and honesty require us to say and be aware that this deficit, both abyssal and dizzying, without any solid financing plan, means only one thing: to base our ever-increasing spending on debt, over and over again. This is what has been planned by organising, in particular in June, the resumption of social debt by the CADES – the social debt amortisation fund – which, let us recall, is financed by the CSG and the CRDS. On the other hand, the PLFSS foresees EUR 12.5 billion in additional and new non-covid -19 expenditure to follow up on the conclusions of the Secur de la santé, and 4.5 billion savings. In other words, the additional expenditure will amount to EUR 8 billion, including salary adjustments and an investment plan. But let us not be mistaken: we were in favour of raising the salaries of health professionals, which were undoubtedly necessary, as was the investment plan, which, it must be said, was too late to implement. On the other hand, there is no satisfaction that all these measures are financed only by debt and deficit. In the long run, this lack of budgetary rigour may weaken our social model. Nor do we forget the question of the allocation of resources to be distributed between the various sectors – public and private, city and hospital – which remains whole. Another failure: liberal medicine is forgotten. Professionals agree, however, that in order to reform the health system, it is imperative that the city and the hospital be opened up in order to improve care routes and achieve savings. This issue remains open. I note the progress that has been made by the Senate, which is welcome: the obligation to convene a conference of financiers on autonomy, the sustainability of the TODE exemption scheme, the creation of a junior entrepreneur status, the arrangements for setting the prices of medicines, and many articles adopted on the fight against social fraud. Similarly, the Senate has largely criticized the text at first reading because of its lack of budgetary sincerity, ambition and, above all, vision in all areas. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In committee, these Senate advances have been the subject of deletion amendments that are likely to be definitively adopted. If they were, we would continue to oppose that text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u105	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u106	Today we are starting the new reading of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021, which is unprecedented in many respects. Once again, we welcome the considerable financial commitment that has been made both for the year to come and for the year to come. If the figures and expenditure we have been talking about and voting about since the beginning of this fiscal year can be turned around, they are absolutely necessary and translate into concrete effects in the daily lives of French people in general and caregivers in particular. I am of course thinking of the wage increases granted to healthcare workers: they will receive an additional 2200 euros each year. This is a strong signal which the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party can only welcome. On the other hand, the expenditure indicators for this budget are on the rise. We must add to this the commitments of Ségur and the covid -19 effect, which led to a major increase: in the course of the parliamentary debate, ONDAM has increased from 11.7 billion euros to 13.3 billion euros. This text also gives concrete expression to a major measure: that of the recovery of the debt of health institutions to the tune of 13 billion euros. It must restore the capacity of institutions to reinvest and clean up their financial situation. We have no doubt that the Assembly will re-establish the rule allowing this resumption. This new reading will largely restore the version of our work at first reading. However, our group wishes to draw the Government's attention to a number of provisions introduced by the Senate that we consider to be of common sense; I'll mention two of them. First of all, the new section of the rural code dedicated to autonomy will preserve the single window of the MSA. While the Senate's drafting is not ideal, it is essential that the issue be addressed and that the Government respond to our concerns, because more than 5 million insured people are concerned: farmers must maintain the same interlocutor, who has demonstrated its effectiveness. We can also welcome the Senate's initiative to assist professional sports clubs by introducing an exemption from the payment of social contributions in the event of a limitation of the capacity to receive 1000 persons or less during sports competitions, due to the health crisis. The survival of these clubs depends on an ecosystem, from entertainment to social cohesion, training and youth outreach. The Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats will endeavour to reintroduce a number of measures which have been abolished by the upper house. I am thinking in particular of the experiment, adopted at first reading, allowing midwives to practice instrumental IVG. This compromise provision, which was discussed and widely adopted a month ago, seems to us to be of paramount importance. The aim is to strengthen the skills of this profession, which aspires to it, while respecting the necessary stages of evaluation to the quality and safety of this practice. Let us remember that this measure guarantees a right, that for women to choose to give life. This right is now threatened by the lack of doctors practising surgical abortions in some territories, but also by trends in medical demography, which will not be immediately rectified. As at the first reading, our group will ask the Government about the status of the process of labelling new community hospitals. While the text provides for the postponement of the reform of the financing of these entities, for reasons we know, we do not have visibility as to the designation by ordinance of the new structures. More than ever before, the national representation must be able to be informed of this process, as Agnès Buzyn, then Minister of Health, had committed himself to it. With regard to home support and support services, the Assembly should re-establish the original wording that we adopted a few weeks ago. This progress, achieved in concert with the departments, which are leaders of solidarity, values an activity absolutely necessary to the conditions of autonomy and home maintenance of the elderly. Finally, we will continue to defend the strengthening of health democracy through transparency and expenditure monitoring. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] As we prepare to vote for a historic budget which devotes a substantial increase in social security expenditure, it is more necessary than ever that we have a clear, clear and precise vision of how these funds are deployed in the territory, particularly through the various actions of the regional health agencies. The Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party is taking up this new reading in a constructive state of mind and will endeavour to defend certain measures with vigour and demand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u107	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u108	I now call the clauses of the bill. Having voted in accordance with the first part of the bill, we are now dealing with the second part of the bill, concerning the provisions relating to the year 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u109	I have before me three amendments, Nos 204, 118 and 169, which can be discussed jointly. The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 204.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u110	This amendment adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs aims to restore the exceptional contribution rate applicable to supplementary bodies for the year 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u111	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 118.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u112	Indeed, the Senate passed several amendments that differentiate the exceptional contribution requested from complementary organizations: the rate was 3% for private for-profit insurance companies, and 2.2% for mutuals and non-profit pension institutions. The purpose of this amendment is to revert to the exceptional contribution rate required of complementary organizations, increased by the Senate, and to restore the 2.6% rate originally planned. On the other hand, it aims to maintain the differentiation between private for-profit insurance and mutual insurance, for which the rate is set at 1.3%. Since mutual societies are not listed on the stock exchange, they do not earn shareholders; In principle, their capital comes exclusively from membership contributions. In other words, reimbursement of medical expenses is based on solidarity between members. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between public limited liability insurance companies and mutual insurance companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u113	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u114	"What this pandemic already reveals is that free health without conditions of income, career or profession, our welfare state is not costs or burdens but valuable assets, essential assets when destiny strikes. What this pandemic reveals is that it is goods and services that must be placed outside of market law. [...] The next few months will require breaking decisions in this direction. I'll take care of them. I will not offend you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to make you guess who spoke these words because you will have recognized it: it is Emmanuel Macron. However, in this bill on the financing of social security, you are doing exactly the opposite. In 2016, the Valls government had already made membership in additional health care mandatory in companies, thereby endorsing the privatisation of health coverage at work since the 1980s. This decision resulted in a significant increase in the rates of lucrative private insurance. When will you come back to this deleterious movement? "L'Avenir en commun" (L'Avenir en commun), a programme by France that is insoubted, defends the principle of the reintegration of these supplementarys into the general social security system in order, on the one hand, to increase the revenues of social security and, on the other hand, to ensure equal coverage of persons. Access to complementary health care is uneven: 5 per cent of the population is not covered, and the cost and quality of coverage offered by complementary care is very heterogeneous from one contract to another. As this proposal has been deemed out of the question, we propose, as a first step, by this amendment, to increase the compulsory contribution of the complementary products which have flourished as a result of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u115	What is the Committee's opinion on Amendments Nos 118 and 169?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u116	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u117	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u118	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u119	The Government supports the reinstatement of the provision adopted by the National Assembly; Opinion in favour of Amendment No 204 and against the other two.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u120	Why? Can we get some answers?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u121	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u122	Throughout the debate at first reading and again recently in committee, we have been told that supplementary insurance bodies are being asked spontaneously, almost voluntarily. I would remind you that, as a matter of law, a voluntary contribution corresponds to a donation; where it is set out in a financing law, it is a tax – it is therefore not the same scheme and the payment is no longer so "spontaneous". In substance, I invite you once again to reflect in the coming years on the financing of the health system. The increasing and systematic use of private insurers – which contribute $1.5 billion this year and $500 million for zero remains at the expense of private insurers – raises the question of the choice of the model of health insurance financing. On this subject, an in-depth reflection will have to be carried out, beyond the present draft budget for social security for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u123	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u124	I reiterate our incomprehension and reaffirm our rejection of your stubbornness to puncture mutuals without making any distinction between the mutualist movement – which has its specificities, its usefulness, its battles – and the for-profit insurance sector. In the last few days, I have had some exchanges with the actors of mutuality, who also do not accept a decision that is both arbitrary and unfit to satisfy the needs in the period we are going through. Indeed in the coming months, in addition to the expenses associated with the reimbursement of care, they will even increase the funding of social works and health centres – in particular the mutuals concerned by Book III of the Code of Mutuality – because this is also what we missed in order to deal with the health crisis. But you do not give the actors of mutuality the means to do so. I had proposed another formula, the creation of a kind of precautionary reserve. Here, you choose arbitrary puncture: it is regrettable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u125	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u126	I am a little sad that the minister delegate does not argue his views. Of course, we have already had several discussions on this text, but hence refraining from any explanation as soon as the first amendments... We are at a great time and the citizens are waiting for clarification: in such a context, Mr.Minister, I would like you to make a small effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u127	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u128	Mr. Dharréville and Mrs. Wonner beat me. Sometimes you blame us for wanting to change only one word or move a comma, but this is a real amendment to the proposal, which deserved something other than a simple "favourable".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u129	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to support Amendment No. 425.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u130	Presented by my colleague Olivier Falorni, it is intended, for the reasons I have already detailed, to insert after paragraph 6 the following subparagraph: "The amount of this contribution shall be financed from the own funds of the bodies concerned".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u131	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u132	As at first reading, unfavorable opinion. The base used to determine the contributions collected by complementary health insurance organisations – OCAM – has the advantage of depth and simplicity, and the 2.6% rate is not a deterrent. In addition, mutuals and insurance companies are sensitive to changes in their own funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u133	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u134	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u135	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 206, which deletes the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u136	As I said at first reading, an extension of care under the 100% health care basket would change the balance of the reform. It has only been applied since 1 January of this year; Before we go any further, let's wait and see how things are going.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u137	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u138	It aims to re-establish the article in its version adopted by the Assembly at first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u139	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 208, which deletes the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u140	The purpose of the article added by the Senate was to limit the capping and degressivity of the employer contribution exemption for home helpers to private for-profit structures. The committee proposes to delete it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u142	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u143	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u144	You are presenting things in a somewhat caricatural way, Mr General: the Senate did not seek to oppose for-profit institutions and non-profit institutions – such as communal or intercommunal centres for social action and communal centres for social inclusion – but to emphasize the distortion of competition that could exist between the two. We need to look at exemptions, the effect of which is not insignificant for the departments. Mr. Deputy Minister, your Government colleague, Mrs. Brigitte Bourguignon,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u145	Excellent minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u146	... she herself confessed to the Senate that this complex subject deserved to be looked at more closely. I therefore believe that this article should not be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u147	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u148	I would simply like to remind Mr Bazin of what I replied to him in committee: since 1989, CASA and CIAS have had a specific contribution exemption scheme. From this point of view, the Senate amendment was already satisfied, which is why we can delete Article 4b.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u149	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u150	I would add that a mission of the IGAS – General Inspectorate of Social Affairs – and of the IGF – General Inspectorate of Finance – has been carried out on the subject, which will allow us to open the debate without having to adopt these provisions contrary to our objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u151	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 209, which deletes the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u152	Indeed, while the objective of senators is commendable – legally securing the exemption of employers' contributions from structures employing home helpers – it is necessary to examine the issue in more detail in order to avoid the effects on board. The Government had undertaken to do so at first reading. We therefore propose to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u153	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u154	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u155	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u156	At every PLFSS, we are told that the subject must be reworked, without anything happening! In this case, the problem concerns living homes or nursing homes. Indeed, not all the USSRAFs – unions for the collection of social security contributions and family allowances – define the concept of private-use domicile in the same way. In the Senate, your colleague Brigitte Bourguignon...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u157	[[Smile]] Excellent minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u158	... acknowledged that "this point actually requires clarification, because there are difficulties of interpretation by the caisses. » Very concretely, when will we proceed with this clarification? Should we go back to that in the next PLFSS?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u159	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 210, which also deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u160	The additional article introduced by the Senate provides for the simplification of the controls of the USSRAF, with regard to the exemption of employers' contributions from home help for private non-profit structures. We propose that this mechanism be removed from the regulatory level rather than from the legislative level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u161	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 211, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u162	Introduced by the Senate, Article 6 bis A aims to compensate social security for the increase in the budget of Public Health France in 2020. On the form, these provisions undermine the intelligibility of financial texts, as no counterpart has been voted in the finance bill. In essence, they mix short-term aspects of the crisis with a potential evolution of the Agency's tasks. Therefore, we propose to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u163	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u164	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u165	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u166	Another subject on which, at some point, a real reflection will have to be made in order to distinguish between what is covered by health insurance and what is covered by the state budget. In itself, the recovery of hospital debt is rather a good idea – in any case, I have always supported it – but is it really the responsibility of health insurance? Similarly, should an organisation such as Santé publique France really be linked to health insurance? Does not the general tasks it carries out in the field of prevention and public health fall within the scope of the State budget? At some point, such clarification may be necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u167	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u168	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u169	As I said in my opening remarks at the time of the presentation of the text, I am in favour of this debate taking place. On the other hand, I do not believe in the tightness of accounts, as taxpayers and insured persons are very often – if not always – the same person. While the share of taxation in social security revenues has increased enormously, it is not due to the health crisis, but to the accumulation of decisions taken since at least three quinquennats, including this one. In any event, this largely invalidates the idea that the social security and state accounts should be leakproof, independent of each other. I said that this situation already prevailed before the crisis because you will have noted that the entire expenditure incurred by the State on the social security accounts – I am thinking in particular of the exemptions – is offset in the PLF, PLFR and PLFSS that we have presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u170	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u171	If we have just voted in favour of PLFR 4, it is because the emergency measures it contains in the field of business support are in the right direction. But it must be noted that there are still forgotten people. Given the scale and duration of the health crisis, there is a need for enterprises and sectors subject to activity restrictions, sectors dependent on them, and sectors whose activities require public reception to be considered as a whole. For the granting of emergency measures, you have set two thresholds at 50 and 250 employees. In some sectors, however, this can lead to distortions: a company with 51 employees will not have the chance of the one with only 49 employees, for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u172	There are always threshold effects!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u173	Similarly, a company that provides a territory, and with only 251 employees may even be the largest, will not benefit from the support measures. I think, therefore, that in order to better support our businesses, Minister, we need to look more closely at the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u174	I have before me six amendments, Nos 142, 323, 407, 145, 325 and 408, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 142, 323, 407 and 145, 325 and 408 are identical. I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 142.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u175	We have fought hard to introduce social contribution reduction schemes to support companies particularly affected by the restrictive measures taken to combat the health crisis, and then to adopt complementary schemes in the tourism, hospitality, catering, sport, culture and events sectors, etc. But why, today, oppose the smaller ones to the larger ones, as we have already been able to do by distinguishing between essential and non-essential businesses? There are several drawbacks to the system of exceptional exemptions for companies with fewer than 250 employees in the sectors most affected by the crisis. Not only is this threshold counterproductive in terms of employment and hiring, it could distort competition between firms in the same profession. That is why, with these amendments, we want to remove the 250-employee threshold, in order to open up these exemptions to all the companies concerned, regardless of their size.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u176	Mr Thibault Bazin's identical amendment No 323 is being defended, as is Mr Bernard Perrut's No 407. Identical amendments No 145 by Mr Gérard Cherpion, 325 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 408 by Mr Bernard Perrut are being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u177	These amendments relate to the ceiling of 250 employees retained for the eligibility of S1 and S1a companies to the exceptional scheme of exemption and aid for the payment of social contributions. The first series aims to delete it; the second, consisting of back-up amendments, to raise it to 500 employees. However, this ceiling corresponds to a known threshold: that which separates SMEs from higher-class enterprises, and whose calculation is smoothed over five years thanks to the so-called PACTE law of 22 May 2019, adopted at the beginning of the quinquennium. Moreover, the same ceiling was included in LFR 3, the Financial Amendment Act of 30 July 2020; No change has occurred since then in the circumstances warrants its amendment. This spring's confinement was even more rigorous. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u179	Same opinion, for the same reasons. This scheme was built on the SME stratum; For larger firms, there are other possibilities: spread, on a case-by-case basis, where the situation warrants it. Instructions have been given to this effect. On the other hand, we have reserved the automatic exemption scheme on criteria for smaller companies: 50 employees for those which have been the subject of administrative closures, 250 in the most affected sectors. It is also the peak line that must be followed in order to avoid disputes over state aid. Finally, to be completely transparent, there is also a budgetary dimension: if we adopt such provisions, the cost of the scheme would have nothing to do with the 8.2 billion I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u180	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 392 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u181	The aim of this amendment is to extend the duration of the contribution exemption scheme for the cultural sector. At the end of the first confinement, cultural establishments were able to reopen only under extremely degraded conditions – low gauges, social distancing. These health protocols have had two economic consequences: reduced turnover and additional costs. It would therefore be a measure of common sense to allow the sector to benefit from these exemptions for a longer period of time, so that it can cope with the paradoxical difficulties caused by the reopening.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u182	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u183	Mrs Bergé, you propose to extend from 1 June to 31 December, for the cultural sector alone, the exemption and aid scheme for the payment of contributions. With regard to the Government's amendment No. 444, it is not difficult to postpone the end of the amendment until 31 December, whether for this sector or for others. The same is not true of its retroactive entry into force on 1 June. This exceptional device is directly linked to the sanitary containment and curfew measures: it is this link, this relationship between the device itself and its objective, that your amendment breaks. In addition, it deals only with the sector of culture, to which I myself am very attached; But I am not sure that such a commitment is sufficient to justify specific treatment. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u184	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u185	Same opinion, for two reasons. On the one hand, as the rapporteur has said, the "downstream" part of your proposal, i.e. the extension of the mechanism beyond containment for specific sectors, will soon be satisfied by an amendment by the Government. On the other hand, the "upstream" part, in addition to the argument put forward by the rapporteur, would create a legal risk of failure to comply with the principle of equality by different treatment with other sectors. You are aware of the steps taken in favour of culture, especially since some have been taken on your initiative and not necessarily on our own; We will also ensure that the cultural elements of the recovery plan are swiftly implemented, which will enable the sector to be accompanied and assisted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u186	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u187	I am prepared to withdraw this amendment. If I may, the argument of a break in equality would have led me to make this proposal for all sectors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u189	...what would have been somewhat excessive; That's why I kept to culture, as I did to my favourite sector. On the other hand, I hear the argument that an amendment by the Government will allow the extension of the operative part until 31 December. I therefore withdraw No 392 as corrected, but I will retain my next amendment, No 422.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u190	The government will only have to amend it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u191	The rapporteur's amendment No 273 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u192	Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor to support Amendment No. 422.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u193	Measures affecting cultural places of reception, including administrative closures, affect the many activities that depend on these places of reception. For example, when cinemas close, the entire film production and distribution chain is stopped, as its natural outlet no longer exists. As you know, Minister Delegate: the main difficulty of this crisis is to ensure that the economic actors affected by the measures we are taking have access to our aid schemes. Today, however, a number of sectors do not benefit, although they depend on our decisions. The aim of this amendment is to allow them to be finally taken into account. The professions directly concerned, particularly in the cultural sector, have received exceptional support, but those which are not included in the decrees and which suffer as a result are not subject to any arrangements. It would therefore be a matter of expanding existing mechanisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u194	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u195	You propose to exempt companies which depend primarily on closed places in the cultural sector from the criterion of declining turnover. Even if the subject matter is fully understood, such provisions pose a problem in defining the scope of the undertakings concerned. In a highly integrated economy, the concept of "final market" can be widely understood, and I am not sure that this is feasible for the USSRAFs. For example, should the advertising sector, which is not included in the summary of your amendment, be included? In any case, the meaning and appropriateness of the proposed wording may be questioned. On the other hand, it would indeed be useful to specify by regulation the detailed rules for the application of the scheme, in particular the criterion of loss of turnover. I am confident that the Government will do so wisely, taking into account the specificities of each sector, in particular the infra-annual variations in the activity of cinemas and theatres. In-depth consultation, prior to the drafting of the decree, would be of great value. I would like to let the minister delegate, if any, state the intentions of the Government; In the meantime, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u197	The rapporteur has said almost everything. We all hope that the current period will lead to a breakdown: I say this without prejudging any decision of the President of the Republic. The aim is to have devices that adapt. Bruno Le Maire and I are currently working on the hotel, coffee and restaurant sector, which will be the subject of bans for longer than others; on sectors which are open to the public and which may be affected by gauge issues; on sectors which are dependent on them. All this will be specified in the decree, which we want to take in consultation with the actors. We pay particular attention to a number of sectors. We will now be talking about sports, because we need a specific exemption provision, including to overcome a difficulty we have encountered in the application of the previous texts, which does not exist for the other sectors. There will also be talk of culture, of establishments that welcome the public, whether for performances or even for exhibitions, which leads to problems of gauge and ticketing loss. I share the rapporteur's reservations about the definition of the 'final market', hence my request for withdrawal, Mrs Bergé, although you have warned us that you would maintain this amendment; Failing that, adverse notice. We are fully engaged in the drafting of the implementing decree and in the consultation that accompanies it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u198	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u199	Deputy Minister, we also support sport and culture, but they are not the only ones involved. Producers and breeders are severely penalized by the closure of restaurants, their "main final market", in the words of this amendment. We have more and more feedback on this. If I understand correctly, you're going to offer us a device specific to professional sport: that's very good; there is another mechanism for culture; But we should not forget the producers whose activity is mainly directed towards restaurants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u200	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u201	I would like to come back to this amendment, which I found particularly relevant. Mr. President, whose constituency is next to mine, knows quite a certain society of capturing images and sounds. I met his representatives ten days ago. The company has 25 employees; She has already had to separate from her last three recruits, the three youngest, of course, who find themselves brutally unemployed. You'll tell me it's not that bad, because these young people aren't in charge of families. In reality, it is absolutely terrible: they are the first to be excluded from a job that was their first job. These are only three employees, but the same scene takes place everywhere in France. We must pay particular attention to all these areas. Thank you for being so, Minister Delegate; In your decree, we must not forget those societies which, today, no longer know how to envisage the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u202	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u203	I would like to add a little more: it was Mr Bazin's speech that made me think of it. A producer who works with restaurants, as long as he can demonstrate the loss of 80% of his turnover, will be eligible for aid and exemptions under the dependent sectors – provided, however, that this loss has been caused by his dependence on an outlet in particular, in this case the catering sector. This is particularly the case for wine growers, whom we have discussed several times in this House. With the decree of 3 November 2020 and the new confinement, this eligibility, including for sectors dependent on closed places of reception referred to earlier by Mrs Bergé, no longer requires 80% but 50% loss of turnover. We have also greatly reduced the conditions for access to aid for those who can prove – it is relatively simple to do – their dependence on a sector or economic activity subject to restriction or closure measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u204	I have before me six amendments, Nos 147, 326, 409, 149, 327 and 410, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 147, 326 and 409 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 149, 327 and 410. I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 147.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u205	This amendment due to Mr Cherpion, like the identical amendments that Mr Bazin and I have tabled, aims to remove the threshold of 50 employees below which the exemptions apply for undertakings carrying on their main business outside the S1 and S1a sectors and which are subject to a ban on the reception of the public which mainly affects the continuation of their activity. These are the vast majority of so-called "non-essential" businesses, since you consider some to be less essential than others. We also measure the consequences of this choice: in many cities, located everywhere in France, our traders were gathered this afternoon to make their voices heard. I hope, Minister Delegate, that in the next few hours solutions can be found so that our businesses can reopen. In any event, the threshold of 50 employees has a number of disadvantages, which we have mentioned in the course of previous amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u206	Identical Amendments Nos 326 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 409 by Mr Bernard Perrut are being defended. Identical Amendments Nos 149 by Mr Gérard Cherpion, 327 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 410 by Mr Bernard Perrut are being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u207	We had the same debate earlier on the threshold of 250 employees. For similar reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u208	Amendment No 276 by Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur, is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u209	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 405, 45, 164, 152, 328, 411 and 384 which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 45 and 164 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 152, 328 and 411. Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor to support Amendment No. 405.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u210	At the same time, I will defend Amendment No 405 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin and identical Amendments No 45 by Mrs Brigitte Kuster and Mrs Constance Le Grip. They propose to extend, for a different period, the period of total exemption from social contributions and contributions – more specifically, for amendments Nos 45 and 164, in the field of live entertainment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u211	The same amendments Nos 45 and 164 have therefore just been defended. The floor is Mr Bernard Perrut, in support of Amendment No 152.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u212	The aim is to extend by three months the duration of the exceptional exemptions from employers' social contributions in the sectors most affected by the economic and financial consequences of the health crisis, those in Lists S1 and S1a, in order to amplify the recovery effort and the effects of the recovery on economic activity. In order to cope with the worsening of the economic crisis, it thus extends the period of implementation of the exemptions to periods of employment between December 2020 and February 2021. We fear that some companies will again see their economic activity interrupted or severely reduced, because we consider it necessary to help them during this particularly delicate period.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u213	Identical Amendments Nos 328 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 411 by Mr Bernard Perrut are being defended. Amendment No 384 by Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u214	The rapporteur's amendment No 282 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u215	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 439 of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u216	It aims to set up a specific mechanism for professional sports clubs, in line with the announcement made last week. Its adoption would justify the Government's favourable opinion on the amendment to delete article 6 quater, the operative part of which would be replaced.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u218	He is in favour, for essentially technical reasons. The special method of remuneration of sports clubs, including sponsorship activities and television broadcasting contracts, can hardly be considered monthly and deserves special consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u219	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u220	Mr Deputy Minister, have you commissioned an impact assessment of this measure, which is expected and which we will support? Beyond football, can other professional sports also be supported? In our territories, basketball, volleyball and handball clubs suffer a lot from the crisis, without benefiting from the same television broadcasting rights as football. They really need support. Could you tell us if this measure can help them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u221	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u222	Having tabled many amendments in support of the sports community over the past few weeks, I can only welcome this progress. Thank you for meeting the commitments you made in our previous discussions, Minister Delegate. However, the rest of the sports sector should not be forgotten. I hope that the other measures announced by the President last week will be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u223	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u224	The Group of the European People's Party will of course support this amendment. The professional sport sector has repeatedly stated that it is forgotten by the aids. This measure was therefore necessary: it repairs a feeling of injustice. Like my colleague Perrine Goulet, however, I stress that the sector will have to be accompanied more quickly, for example by a gradual resumption of sports activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u225	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u226	I confirm that all professional sports are concerned, given that professional contracts exist, that the structure is that of a professional club and that these sports are strongly affected by losses in ticketing due to closures or reductions in capacity gauges. As for the amount granted, it amounts to a total of 105 million euros, as announced by the President of the Republic last week. It is in addition to various measures: the aid to clubs provided for in the fourth draft finance law amending for 2020 through the mobilisation of appropriations for accidental and unforeseen expenses amounting to 107 million euros, the Pass'Sport to help finance sports licences, or the various measures that Mrs Goulet recalled during her speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u227	Amendment No 309 by Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur, tends to correct a reference error.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u228	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 438 as corrected by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u229	It aims to make artists-authors eligible for the social contribution exemption scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u231	If you exonerate everyone, there'll be no more money!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u233	This is consistent with the one we voted in the third amending finance law – LFR3 – in favour of artists-authors. Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u234	We should also ensure that Amazon pays its taxes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u235	The rapporteur, Mr Thomas Mesnier, has the floor to support Amendment No. 280.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u236	In LFR3, our assembly conditioned access to exemptions and exceptional aids on the absence of a conviction for hidden work. While we want to fight all frauds,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u237	Um!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u238	... it seemed to me appropriate to take up these provisions. While the system implemented by the State is necessary and powerful, it is also a particularly important effort for public finances. Such an addition is also consistent with other types of legal provisions. I therefore invite you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u239	Isn't that right, Caroline?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u240	Identical amendments Nos 329 and 413 are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u241	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 444.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u242	It refers to a decree extending the scheme for the reduction of contributions beyond 30 November 2020. I mentioned this in my previous reply to Mrs Aurore Bergé to stress that if health constraints were to be extended, the structures concerned would still be covered by the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u243	The rapporteur has the floor to support amendment No. 212 by the committee to delete the rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u244	Article 6 quater, added by the Senate, aims to grant an exemption to sports clubs whose capacity to welcome the public has been affected by the crisis. However, this provision is already the subject of Article 6b, which effectively integrates the sports sector, under the conditions just specified by the Government's Amendment No. 439. That is why we propose to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u245	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 173 to delete the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u246	An amendment by the Government voted by the Senate urgently provides for an increase in ONDAM 2020 to take into account the costs of increasing the number of PCR tests and the deployment of antigenic tests carried out in the city and in health facilities. This increase is also intended to increase the capacity of institutions and services for the elderly. But it is still quite inadequate: there is no way to finance the expenses associated with agile management by the health institutions of the crisis, which is not finished. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] In any event, we oppose the reduction in spending imposed by the ONDAM logic, which puts health care institutions in competition with each other. "No matter what it costs," assured us Emmanuel Macron last March. I am still waiting, alas, for the legislative translation of this expression which made me dream in March and makes me despair in November. In favour of abolishing ONDAM, our group would like Article 7 to be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u247	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u248	He's unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u249	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u250	It is also unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u251	So you only listen to Mr. Macron every other time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u252	They have the selective Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u253	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u254	My words deserve answers! The presidential speech in March was very clear, it made us dream. I almost even applauded!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u255	You can applaud!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u256	I agreed with our President of the Republic, who was aware – as I have been telling you for three years – of the fact that ONDAM was endangering our hospitals and preventing us from taking care of our patients and residents. We're never six months – not ten years – later, and you haven't kept anything! What Emmanuel Macron said in March is already forgotten. For our part, we will not forget. Remember, you're in the fourth amending finance bill! You are doing everything in disorder: this PLFR4 will not be enough and you will come back in fifteen days, with a hard-headed head, telling us that you were wrong, that we were right and that we had to increase the appropriations again. I'm sorry to tell you, but you're walking on your head! We need to remove ONDAM to have enough money to treat our patients and residents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u257	Mrs Audrey Dufeu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u258	It is always difficult to remain silent by listening to you, Mrs. Fiat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u259	Yes, it is. It's possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u260	I will pass on expressions like "the brawned head"... We think we dream when we hear you say that we don't need ONDAM and that the means are still insufficient. I assure you: the caregivers who have seen their salary increase by more than 200 euros do not dream! These are concrete increases. Similarly, the billions of euros that are injected, in an unprecedented way, into the public hospital to invest and better organize the health system, are not dreaming, they are concrete! The question is not that of ONDAM: we are discussing a budget text. In your home, Mrs. Fiat, you have a budget! It's just a matter of managing him as a good family man...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u261	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u262	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] ...and that's why we're here tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u263	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u264	[[Same movements]] The attitude of the group La France insoumée is to the best of bad faith, to the worst of irresponsibility. By constantly adapting the evolution of ONDAM in order to take into account the scale of the unprecedented crisis that we are experiencing, both health, economic and security, the Government is showing responsibility; it shall assess the situation on an ongoing basis. The situation tomorrow is likely to be different from what we are planning today, given the scale of the crisis. It is unbearable to engage in populism in this way to reproach the Government for returning to its position! We will, of course, vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u265	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u266	Our colleagues are right to say that we must manage ONDAM and PLFSS as a good father. But how can we justify spending €2.2 billion on completely useless PCR tests? I'm sorry, but my arms are falling! This does not reflect the most fair or balanced management. At no time since the beginning of the crisis has there been a health, economic and social assessment. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the social consequences will be terrible in 2021 and 2022, particularly in the field of mental health, which I know particularly well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u267	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u268	Exceptionally, since the rapporteur and the minister seem willing to answer, I will continue the discussion that has begun before, rather than defending Amendment No 171. Ms. Dufeu mentioned the need to manage ONDAM as good family fathers, but they are not the only ones who can manage...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u269	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u270	...and, for my part, it is as a good mother of family that I will express myself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u271	It's just an expression!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u272	As for Mr Turquois, who accuses us of populism, I will point out to him that I did not just go to the caregivers whom I had been asked to meet: I worked with them for three weeks! That's how it is: when some people show up in the hospital for an hour, while the cameras are there, others make the choice to take back their nursing job for a few weeks, not because of populism, but because the hospital lacks arms. This has the advantage of gathering first-hand information from which the entire national representation can then be used. Thus, having been able to see for myself the situation, I would have wanted to ask Minister Veran about a possible scam – I say possible – concerning the upgrading of caregivers. Since he is not here tonight, perhaps Mr. Dussopt will be able to answer this question: why is the revalorisation not based on the basic salary, but in the form of an additional accounting line on the salary bulletin? I can tell you that all caregivers are interested in the answer to this question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u273	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u274	I shall take it that Mrs Fiat has defended Amendment No 171 in order to provide her with an answer covering both the latter and the previous one. You were just proposing to delete a mandatory article in the Social Security Financing Act and you were criticizing ONDAM, which is up 9% this year – an increase that had never been seen. On several occasions, the Government has updated its forecasts and adjusted accordingly the means necessary for the operation of our hospital, which I think should be welcomed. Those who, like you and others on these benches, Mrs. Fiat, have worked with caregivers, know what their commitment is during the crisis, and we have put the necessary means to enable them to work in the best conditions possible. With regard to Amendment No 171, which we have already discussed in committee and in public at first reading, in addition to the fact that the addition it proposes would probably have no significance, since it is intended to amend an article of balance, I do not agree at all with the view of the counterparties on which it is based. What matters is to put in place well-calibrated arrangements to help companies in need. Therefore, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u275	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u276	I also express an unfavorable opinion, stating that the Government has carried out the revalorisation by a special compensation supplement, allowing us to target the professions and trades that we want to revalue. There was another solution, which consisted of playing only on the number of index points in the grid, with counter-effects and a scrub of any relative revalorization compared to the others, but in any case the solution applied corresponds to a classic technique in terms of the public service salary grid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u277	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u278	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u279	Thank you for your answer, minister, and I would like to ask you for a final clarification on this: in order to reassure caregivers, can you confirm that this re-evaluation will count well for pensions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u280	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u281	Good for you if you know everything about everything, Mr Maillard, but for once we have a minister who answers the questions – which I thank him – let him give us the information we need!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u282	He'd have to go to the hospital, Mr. Maillard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u283	Minister, can you reassure the caregivers that this accounting line will be taken into account when calculating their pensions?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u284	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u285	For my part, Minister, I was questioned last week by those you chose not to increase. A claim is being made throughout the country to ensure that the whole medical and social sector can benefit from these catch-up increases – and indeed, there is no justification for this not to be the case. What can you tell us about this?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u286	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u287	At the risk of disappointing Mr Dharréville, I will not go back to the way in which the Segur agreements have been concluded, nor to the scope that has been validated under this agreement. In addition to my reply to Mrs Fiat, I would point out that the compensation supplement introduced does not fall within the scope of the traditional compensation scheme: it is integrated into the base, which means that it counts for the calculation of pension rights and social rights. If we chose to do this in accounting and technical terms, it was because it allowed us to target the professions and bodies that we wanted to "board", if you pass the phrase. Beyond the bodies of the hospital public service, we had to make it absolutely necessary to make use of the upgrading of the employment cadres of the territorial public service in the medical-social sector because working in public EHPADs. They had to be able to benefit from it without having a counter-effect, that is, without administrative and technical bodies being taken into the revalorisation by homology of employment frameworks – which would have erased the relative character of revalorisation. In any event, I assure you, Mrs Fiat: revalorisation will count well for the calculation of retirement and social rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-23-O1090.u288	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further reading of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021. The meeting is adjourned.
