ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u2	We are dealing with the examination of the Overseas Mission (No. 3399, Annex 31; No 3400, Volume XIII; No 3404, Volume V). Mr Olivier Serva, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u3	At a time when our entire country is struck by an unprecedented crisis, I am pleased to note that the appropriations for the Overseas Mission are increasing significantly, both in terms of commitment authorizations and in terms of payment appropriations, at current and constant scope. Its commitment appropriations increased by 6.4% to EUR 2.68 billion, while payment appropriations increased by 2.6% to EUR 2.44 billion. In 2021, the scope of the mission did not experience any notable developments, except for the transfer of EUR 4.5 million of appropriations entered in Guyana's convergence and transformation contract. Although the Overseas Mission does not have to deal with the specific expenditure generated by the health crisis, which is mainly supported by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, its appropriations are growing relatively strongly. A particular effort is being made in favour of ultramarine companies, thanks to the significant increase in social security tax exemptions, which are increasing by €97 million. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this amount is only an assessment. Indeed, the sum entered under the "Support for enterprises" action depends on the forecasts of the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies, ACOSS, and the execution can move away from it, a fortiori in the current context. I therefore call for a careful follow-up of the appropriations for the "Support for enterprises" action, and I propose that any under-consumption should result in the redeployment of unimplemented appropriations to business support schemes or a change in the parameters of the exemption scheme to enable the amount consumed to be increased. These exemptions are an effective tool for overseas policy: by the end of 2019, the workforce of ultramarine companies had increased by 4.6% over a year, with the creation of 15276 jobs. Since these creations are mainly carried out by companies with fewer than 11 employees, I call for further strengthening of the exemptions from which they are granted. Let us not forget that ultramarine companies are affected by the crisis and structurally penalised by narrow markets as well as by high natural risks such as cyclones and earthquakes. I am thinking, among other things, of tourism, culture, events, audiovisual production, cinema and hotels. At the time of the second wave of the pandemic, the worst is to come for the overseas tourism sector, since it is winter which, for them, is the peak tourist season, from November to March. In passing, I welcome the adoption of an amendment to the draft law on the financing of social security – PLFSS – tabled by our colleague Stéphane Claireaux, an amendment which I have co-signed and which aimed to integrate the audiovisual production sector within the scope of the so-called enhanced competitiveness scale of exemptions specific to overseas countries and territories. If the payment appropriations for programme 123 "Overseas Living Conditions" decrease by 5%, I regret to note, with a view to adjusting their amount to the level of expenditure planned for 2021, we welcome a 7% increase in commitment authorizations. In particular, the increase in the appropriations for the so-called "Housing" action, known as the single budget line, or LBU, reached 8.7%, which, after the fall in the initial budget law for 2020, demonstrates a renewed ambition for housing. This is likely to reassure the Government of its commitment to the deployment of the overseas housing plan, says PLOM. What about this other plan, the recovery plan? The Overseas Ministry reports that 1.5 billion euros out of the 100 billion of the plan will be spent in 2021 and 2022 on overseas. Specific sub-envelopes are, of course, for overseas countries, in particular towards agriculture and the modernisation of slaughterhouses, for EUR 80 million, and to local and regional authorities, for EUR 200 million under the guarantee of tax revenue. In addition, measures in the recovery plan are specific to overseas countries, with EUR 50 million for the seismic reinforcement of the most sensitive buildings in the West Indies, Martinique, Guadeloupe and Saint-Martin, or EUR 50 million for the acceleration of the DOM water plan, the aim of which is to bring water systems up to standard. The Overseas Ministry is working to define this recovery plan by territory, in consultation with local actors. The measures announced are welcome, but it must be noted that, for the time being, the EUR 1.5 billion announced does not appear to be there. And – do we have to call him back? – this proportion of 1.5% of the plan's appropriations is much lower than the proportion of ultramarines in the national population, which is 3.5%. The territorial declination and deployment of this plan should therefore be carefully monitored. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Subject to the reservations I have expressed, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt, following the Committee on Finance, the appropriations for the Overseas Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u4	I call Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u5	As you know, the health crisis is painfully affecting our ultramarine territories, which are already weakened by structural imbalances: a deficit trade balance, insularity and geographical distance favouring expensive living, longer payment periods, unemployment rates two to three higher than in Hexagon. In addition to the very sharp reduction in maritime and air links, the consequences of the crisis could be even more catastrophic and devastating than in Hexagon. In this context, the overseas mission's funding needs to be mobilized more than ever for the development of ultramarine territories in economic, social and environmental matters. The Mission's appropriations are up slightly in the finance bill – PLF – for 2021. Commitment authorisations increase by EUR 160 million, reaching a total of almost EUR 2.679 billion. Your draftsman takes note of this increase. The appropriations under programme 138, "Overseas employment", concentrate the bulk of the budget increase. This increase reflects an effort in favour of ultramarine companies. The scheme for the exemption of employers' social contributions will probably reach its cruising regime in 2021. For Program 123, "Overseas Living Conditions", applications for commitment authorizations are up 7%. Action 01, "Accommodation", benefits from an additional €118 million in favour of public land development establishments in Guyana and Mayotte. In the field of education, an additional EUR 14 million will be allocated to schools in the first degree of Mayotte. While I take note of the overall increase in the resources of the mission, I regret that this increase is only moderate in the light of the economic emergency in the overseas countries and territories. Whatever the consequences of the current crisis on the activity of ultramarine SMEs, and in particular in the tourism sector, the problems are deep, and I thought that this opinion should be adapted and presented on the basis of the opinion adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs on 14 October. Today, the ultramarine economic environment is characterized by a crisis of confidence. The effects of the crisis are particularly felt in the tourism sector, which accounts on average for more than 18 per cent of overseas GDP, direct and indirect employment. While the ultramarine summer season made it possible to compensate somewhat for the financial losses recorded in the spring, the balance sheet for the so-called summer season is very mixed. While a new containment strikes the Hexagon, and soon most of Europe, the small chances of recovery of the sector seem to be permanently compromised. If the ultramarine territories, the Martinique aside, are spared by this new confinement, they will suffer the economic consequences of full whipping. In fact, traditionally, the high season of ultramarine tourism is in winter. Therefore, the sustainable recovery of the ultramarine economy must be based on a better adaptation of the emergency arrangements to these territories. In addition, an extension of exceptional aid schemes until at least the first half of 2021 would be essential to maintain the local economic fabric. Furthermore, your draftsman calls for an extension to all the ultramarine territories of the new rules on the solidarity fund applicable in Guyana and Mayotte since 14 April 2020, i.e. the doubling of aid from the first part of the solidarity fund to EUR 3000 per month between 1 July and 30 October 2020, and the eligibility of aid from the second part to all companies, even without employees. I also wish to convey the growing concern of the ultramarine actors about their ability to repay the loans guaranteed by the State, the EMPs, and therefore call for an extension of the amortisation period of the loans, which is currently limited to six years. At the same time, in the longer term, I call for the Government's clear support for the overseas destination, as well as for continued efforts over the past several years to promote quality and sustainable tourism in our overseas regions. This could involve a significant increase in investment in tourism infrastructure and make the overseas destination an eco-responsible destination. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you assume, I will vote for this mission in terms of the Government's effort to strengthen its resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u6	I call Mrs George Pau-Langevin, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u7	The review of the overseas mission's appropriations is encountering a recurring difficulty: its two programmes do not reflect the full range of activities carried out in the overseas countries and territories. Moreover, it is the whole meaning of the mission of the Minister for Overseas Affairs to plead the cause of these territories in each of the ministerial departments, to explain the particularities which justify the adaptation of the rules of common law, to mobilise appropriations from envelopes which he does not control. In the Law Commission, we have all highlighted the increase in commitment authorizations in the PLF. We also welcomed the increase in payment appropriations, but feared that the under-consumption observed in the previous year would continue. We cannot simply accept the argument of the lack of engineering and the capacity to manage projects; Overseas countries also have talented professionals and communities involved. We must therefore ensure that the appropriations voted by Parliament are actually used on the spot, otherwise our usefulness is quite questionable. I don't know if it goes through a particular report or study, but the fact is that it would be good to deepen the reasons for this under-consumption, in order to propose remedies. We welcome the effort made on the LBU, but we also know that there are under-consumption. Procedures are often very demanding to start a construction site. Perhaps we should ask ourselves the question of these procedures and see if it is not possible to lighten certain things so that these credits can be better consumed. On the other hand, I note that the appropriations for adapted military service – ADM – and for the Overseas Agency for Mobility, LADOM, are being extended, and that is an excellent thing because they are two structures that carry out extremely useful work for young people from overseas. Staff adjustments are needed, particularly for LADOM, but this structure, which I have known well and which is of great interest to young people, can work as it is. The limit of this budget, which offers little latitude, lies in the automatic nature of the expenditure linked to the exemption of employers' contributions to social security, on which the Overseas Minister obviously does not have the hand. On the other hand, it might be desirable for the Government to invest more in human beings overseas. As a result of the health crisis and the use of partial unemployment, the overseas mission's budget will be mechanically saved, since the exemption from charges will not have to be offset. It would be good to be able to shift the amounts released to the territories concerned in order to support their activity and absorb the violent shocks of successive confinements, rather than to repay the State's debt towards social security: the intention is laudable, but if the State is now increasing the debt to support the activity and life of the metropolis, why would it not also do so overseas? The budget devoted to social and cultural action fell significantly last year and stagnates this year, which will prevent important operations from starting, such as the Cité des Overseas, which Mrs Girardin had announced to us will now be held in another form. For the moment, we do not know how this operation will take place. The appropriations entered have not been used and the situation remains unclear. To build citizenship and a sense of nationhood, economic and social aspects are important, but symbolic and cultural aspects are also important. Giving the overseas countries their place in the common consciousness and in the collective imagination is indispensable. France is plural and overseas is part of the national whole. It must be shown by means of culture. We must also ask ourselves the question of territorial differentiation. The constitutional revision announced by the President of the Republic is clearly in jeopardy. It would be a good idea to re-launch this issue in order to move things forward on the subject of distancing in the overseas countries and territories. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Mr Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion, also applauds]] The Law Commission has issued a favourable opinion on the appropriations for the Overseas Mission. Personally, because this budget is largely limited to repeating the precedents and because it does not arouse enthusiasm or major objection on my part, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u8	We come to the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u9	The Overseas Ministry directly implements budgetary resources for employment and living conditions in the overseas countries and territories. However, can we say today that your policy is really a policy of eradicating the difficulties that our territories have accumulated? You're selling dreams, but what's changed for the ultramarines? Has unemployment declined? Has the purchasing power increased? Have the housing conditions changed? Is water policy appropriate? What has changed in mobility and territorial continuity? What about education, health, communal employees, the elderly? What about justice in the face of corruption? What about your inactivity in the face of wasting public money? These questions will have to be answered. Mr. Minister for Overseas Affairs, your arrival has not changed anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u10	Neither is yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u11	Why, then, are you stubborn in this direction? You speak of support for employment and you welcome your policy while tens of thousands of women and men suffer from the shortage of employment throughout the overseas. The objective of the Overseas Mission should have been full employment at some point in time. Why not? We would have liked to hear that we can succeed in achieving that goal. Nothing! You are unaware of the consequences of mass unemployment, and the policy of integrating young people through adapted military service no longer exists. We all know it's a model that works. Why don't you put the package on this? You do not create the conditions to meet the expectations of young people and the needs of businesses in the territories. Why? Do mobility vocational training measures, one of the components of the mission, satisfy those who have access to them? It is enough to question these young people and their families to see that their situation remains very complicated. You are bragging about an ambitious policy on social housing. During your recent visit to La Réunion, you repeated that some credits were not being used, but what did you do to remedy the deficiencies? Not much. On the other hand, in families, the disaster continues. Overcrowding in homes, the deterioration of health due to unsafe housing, the ill-being of children and the consequences of homelessness are far from negligible, and you know that. In terms of health, the problem of water is acute, whether in terms of quality or distribution. How is it that this issue is not the subject of a genuine national policy? You have chosen to leave tens of thousands of families without tap water or only supplied with poor quality water. It's serious, Minister! What, moreover, do you expect to lead a true policy of ecological transition? The water, the wind, the sun, the sea, are so many riches that abound abroad; and in this field neither do you do much. We could also talk about the elderly. What are you doing for them, who are suffering increasingly from isolation and low purchasing power? You're not doing anything to catch up with the public services either. What is your ambition for national education, health, police, gendarmerie? Thousands of trained and competent ultramarines want to return home and serve their home territory. When is a real policy for the return of the ultramarines? We could go on like this for a long time, but you will certainly brag about the ridiculous increase in the budget of the Overseas Mission, which has been wiped out by inflation. To this I will reply: "Support for integration and qualification": minus 1.16%; "Accommodation": minus 2.74%; "Territory planning": minus 9.82 %; "Support for access to bank financing": minus 44%; "Territorial Continuity": minus 5.59 %! [[Jean-Hugues Ratenon delivers a few words in Creole]] To illustrate your bad will, I would add that two of my amendments have been declared inadmissible because they are supposedly out of the question. The first concerned the functioning of the Observatory on Prices, Margins and Income in the face of the persistence of the cost of life abroad. The second proposed an inventory of suitable military service, in order to expand its deployment in the overseas territories. Why did you refuse them? You thus confirm that overseas is not your priority. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] In conclusion, Mr Lecornu, thank you for reviewing your policy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u12	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u13	Like all of us here, I have looked at the overseas mission's appropriations: they are, little or no, similar to those of last year. Some actions at the margin are being improved; Others, on the contrary, are less well equipped this year. One thing is certain, you have a special role in the Government, Minister. The overseas ministry depends very much on the personality of the minister, his will and his ability to commit to the overseas. Right now, I have no reason to doubt your will. Overseas countries are diverse, covering as many social, economic and constitutional situations as communities and territories. In order to understand this diversity, however, you have limited room for manoeuvre: Mrs Pau-Langevin reminded us that the bulk of the appropriations needed for overseas travel do not come from your department, but from other departments, with which you have to fight most of the time to maintain balance and to make the overseas demands heard. As far as I am concerned, I will vote in favour of the overseas mission's appropriations. The situation is of course special this year because of the pandemic, which has consequences in all areas. In the present case, the overseas countries and territories have very different situations. Some departments are simple dismemberments of the Republic when other communities have a special status. You're coming back from New Caledonia, Minister. This territory is a free covid bubble; But at five hours of plane from there, it's not the same, so much so, in Polynesia. In this context, the State has a special responsibility: the protection of persons is the responsibility of the State. Its decisions on the opening of borders, even if they are made with local executive bodies, have consequences. The resumption of the pandemic in Polynesia is a perfect illustration of this: 1500 state officials have reopened the borders of our territory, which today has an increasing number of deaths of the covid-19 and figures twice as high as in metropolitan France. [[Mr. Moetai Brotherson spoke a few words in Tahitian]] The State has a responsibility for the measures taken as a result of its decisions. I therefore urge you, Minister, to be our ambassador to the Government and to fight with your fellow ministers – with Bercy's ogre in particular – in the interest of the overseas countries and territories. I wish you courage. The ultramarine Members do not want to shoot the ambulance, but they are not complacent either. They will be attentive to your action!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u14	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u15	The Overseas Mission's appropriations this year amount to almost €2.7 billion in commitment authorisations, an increase of 6.39 % over 2020, and almost 2.43 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of 2.64 %. The working Republic Group welcomes this significant increase in the overseas budget: it reflects the Government's attention to our territories in these difficult times of health crisis, which often has dramatic consequences for the already fragile ultramarine economies. It is also important to recall the commitment made by the State through the Overseas Recovery Plan, with an additional €1.5 billion for our territories to support projects in 2021 and 2022. In this regard, I would like to warn you, Minister, of the unquestionable need to accompany our territories as closely as possible in the context of the recovery plan. Our overseas regions are mainly composed of medium-sized or small communities, where small or very small enterprises are found. It is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to an efficient local deployment of the overseas recovery plan, if we wish, and I know that you are very attached to it, that it is understandable, accessible, and that it fulfils its leading role in economic, social and environmental matters. I still have one regret, Minister, about the limited action of the recovery plan for the COMs – overseas communities. The State budget for the overseas countries and territories covers 31 missions and 94 programmes; It amounts to EUR 19.6 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 19.2 billion in payment appropriations. Out of 31 missions, 4 exceed one billion euros. In addition to those of the Overseas Mission, the appropriations of the missions "Relations with local and regional authorities", "Ecology, sustainable development and mobility" and "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" are of direct concern to the ultramarine territories. In addition, two missions spend significant staff costs for overseas: EUR 4.7 billion for the payment of national education officers, and just over EUR 1 billion for the expenditure of personnel of the internal security forces. I know the Overseas Ministry and the Government as a whole fully mobilized to decline the recovery plan in each territory. It is based on three pillars: greening the economy, strengthening the competitiveness of enterprises and social and territorial cohesion. It must be deployed in consultation with local actors, such as elected representatives, trade unions and associations, with the aim of supporting the sustainable transformation of the various ultramarine economies, and in particular the creation of local jobs. The budget presented to us today therefore focuses on the continuation of the Government's action in favour of the overseas countries and territories through two programmes of the mission: programme 138, which deals with employment, and programme 123, which deals with living conditions; The latter includes housing policies, health, social and cultural development, and the support of our young people, especially through sport. Budgetary matters concerning territorial continuity and spatial planning are also included in programme 123, and I note with satisfaction, Mr Minister, that the continuation of the commitments of the Blue Book of Overseas Territories, set up by your predecessor Annick Girardin, as well as that of the objectives of trajectory 5.0, are taken into account in the new budget for 2021. Commitment authorizations are increasing by 6.13% for the 138 Overseas Employment Programme and by 7% for the 123 Overseas Living Conditions Programme; We welcome this. I also note an increase in commitment authorizations of 17.69% for action 06, "Territorial Communities", of programme 123; It covers in particular the allocations to the overseas territorial authorities and the financing adapted to their specificities, in order to maintain their financial capacity and to promote equal access to the local public services of the ultramarine populations. I also note with satisfaction an increase in commitment authority appropriations of 6.9% for Action 03, "Territorial Continuity", of Programme 123; This contribution from the State aims to cover the cost of the travel of our ultramarine fellow citizens between the metropolis and their territory by means of transport aid, including in the context of educational, cultural and sporting exchanges. It is also intended to provide financial support to communities that are heavily affected by geographic constraints of remoteness. I would like to take advantage of this passage on transport, Minister, to stress to you the need for the State's support to our local airlines, which are very hard hit by the consequences of the health crisis of the coronavirus. They are vital and essential to the opening up of our territories. I would like here, as you will understand, to plead, among other things, for my airline Air Saint-Pierre, which is going through a very complicated period. The under-consumption of overseas appropriations remains a real concern. Small overseas communities do not have all the engineering they need to complete their projects, which are often essential to the territories. Again, support from the State is needed, but if the Overseas Ministry has already provided the French Development Agency – AFD – with a budget to this end since last year, it will be necessary to ask the latter to do better in 2021. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] Colleagues, the budget for the Overseas Mission is on the increase for 2021. It allows, despite the complicated context of the health crisis, to maintain a high level of funding for public policies for the development of our ultramarine territories and their populations. Thus, Minister, the Republic Group is in full support of this budget and will vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u16	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u17	I am honoured to replace our colleague David Lorion tonight, who was unable to speak on behalf of the LR Group. The analysis of the Overseas Mission is still a strong moment for Members, but it is also very frustrating, as this budget represents only 10% of the total amount of money actually spent on the overseas countries and territories. Indeed, their overall budget, from all ministries, is €26 billion spread over 90 budget programmes and 30 missions. While the figures are clear, the "overseas" reflex of other departments is, unfortunately, a little less so. What about this budget, except that it is not in decline, but that the slight increases will not make it possible to catch up with the structural backwardness of development in the overseas countries and territories. In Mayotte, the GDP per capita is 9,000 euros; In La Réunion, it is 21,000 euros. Ultramarine territories lag considerably behind hexagonal regions with an average GDP per capita of €35,000. Unfortunately, this is compounded by illiteracy, lack of training and poverty, which affects too much of the population. Unemployment accounted for 24.3% in Réunion and 35% in Mayotte, compared with 8% in Hexagon. The Overseas Ministry will manage this year €2.7 billion in commitment authorisations and €2.43 billion in payment appropriations, representing a slight budgetary increase of 6% and 2% respectively. The years go by and the ministers change, so you are not entirely responsible, Minister, for your recent appointment. But the Government must be ambitious towards our territories, whose potential is not being exploited. What is the reason for this slight increase? The appropriations allocated to the compensation of social and employers' contributions were increased by 6.6%; It is the main expenditure of the overseas state. It is linked to the exemption from charges for companies with "enhanced competitiveness" status requested last year. New sectors have been integrated into this system, including the press and the audiovisual sector, but many have remained on the tile, such as the BTP – building and public works – which raises questions as to the promises to revive the sector through the order book. Of course, the appropriations allocated to the construction of social housing have not decreased, but, spread over each territory, the sums are very insufficient to meet the demand for social housing, especially since the authorizations for commitments are higher than the payment appropriations, which suggests that we will not consume the sums committed, as we have seen for several years. The under-consumption amounted to 49 million euros in 2019 and 162 million euros in 2018. We are all making efforts to consume these commitments, but the investigation of the cases is long and complex; It would be good to consider this point more rigorously and accurately. Budgetary appropriations from the abolished tax measures such as NPR VAT – value added tax not collected recoverable – are reinjected. Part of the programme, which was intended for business financing, remains stable compared to the forecast. This makes it possible to finance various measures such as overseas development loan, micro-credit support and freight aid. While these sums are useful, they do not constitute additional investments. They have been punctured into overseas defiscalization and reinjected into the overseas mission's budget: this is a zero-sum equation for companies. LADOM's appropriations do not fall, but do not guarantee a real territorial continuity as currently guaranteed by the Réunion region, which confirms a great injustice of treatment, in this respect, between the various overseas territories and Corsica. The appropriations for the ADM provided for the establishment of a training base in New Caledonia; You have just inaugurated it, Minister, and we are proud of this success overseas that has inspired national journeys. However, these mechanisms are far from giving every young person a solution, as the government slogan likes to say. The support you provide to young people and their employers is only valid if businesses are active and survive the current crisis. Finally, Mr Minister, the recovery plan, even if it is not part of their budget, should be adapted to the overseas countries and should assure them that they will receive a fair share, i.e., in my view, EUR 2.3 billion, corresponding to the 2.3 million ultramarines we are. Still, the billions you promise us should be really accessible to our businesses, which are 95% of the SMEs and SMEs, whose recent studies have shown that they are weak in terms of skills and administrative organisation. Let us ensure that we consume local products, that our businesses, industries, traders and artisans continue to live after the crisis, rather than asking them to respond to calls for projects that are synonymous with red tape and red tape. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The budget of the Overseas Mission is, once again, in no way ambitious, despite a slight increase that I mentioned. For this reason, the Republicans group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u18	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u19	The health crisis has painful consequences overseas, both for the economy and for employment and for living conditions. The concerns of our ultramarine fellow citizens are very strong and the development of the situation, in the short and medium term, is a concern of every moment. Ultramarine economies are faced with pre-existing structural fragility, linked to insularity, remoteness and containment. Moreover, as our colleague has just said, the structure of the ultramarine entrepreneurial fabric, composed of an average of 95% of TPEs and SMEs, increases the vulnerability of these economies. That is why the budget for the overseas crisis must be up to the level; That's the case with the one you're offering us. In the finance bill for 2021, spending on the overseas sector irrigates a large part of the general state budget, up to 12%: the financial effort is substantial. Commitment authorizations are increasing by more than 160% to allow for, among other things, increased support for housing and school construction. This is essential, because social housing is in particular in need of it. Supply is clearly insufficient in terms of demand: strong population growth in some communities, as well as changes in lifestyles and household structure, make a substantial financial effort to support more dense social housing essential. There is also a need to preserve and strengthen the quality of existing habitat. More broadly, the housing action has commitment authorisations of more than € 224 million, an increase of 8.7%, which is good news. However, as Mr Justine Benin, Member of Parliament for Guadeloupe, said in committee, we must all be vigilant to ensure that these appropriations are fully implemented, because our ultramarine fellow citizens expect strong action on housing from the state and communities. Among the other priorities that will be affected by the additional resources mobilised for 2021 is education. The means will be focused in particular on school constructions, particularly in Mayotte and Wallis-et-Futuna; These new appropriations, added to the envelopes already mobilised, will in 2021 represent an unprecedented total of more than €137 million for new investments in this area. This important effort is welcome, as access to education also requires adequate and quality school infrastructure. Access to vocational qualifications and integration processes must also be encouraged. The youth unemployment rate is particularly high in the overseas territories and communities, and the Overseas Mission reinforces its support for integration and qualification. But how can this really be achieved when training activities are down or slow down, when internships are unobtainable, when employment is even less on the job than before? For example, the overall integration rate of regiments in adapted military service fell by 8 points in the first four months of 2020. At the end of the training chain there is employment. Most of the Mission's appropriations are intended to improve the employment and competitiveness of ultramarine enterprises, in particular through the reduction of employers' contributions. The budgetary resources provided for this scheme are 6.6% higher than in 2020, and represent EUR 1.5 billion. It is an important lever, which supports an ultramarine economy composed of many small businesses, less resistant to an economic shock of such magnitude and duration. For example, on Réunion Island, since the beginning of the health crisis, companies have considerably reduced their hiring, and 4,300 jobs have been destroyed. We must also bear in mind the importance of the informal sector, which in some territories excludes many activities from aid schemes and poses an increased risk of impoverishment to the people living there. This means that it is imperative for the Government to strengthen actions that can bring more solidarity and social cohesion. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on many benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Aina Kuric also applauds]] Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MoDem Group and related democrats welcome the appropriations presented in the Overseas Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u20	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u21	This finance bill and its "Overseas" mission are the last full exercise for your majority. Before approaching this fourth budget, the fiscal year deserves an initial assessment which, if not personally attributable to you, Minister, is attributable to you as a matter of government solidarity. As your majority has been in charge since 2017, this is an opportunity to take stock of the President of the Republic's overseas commitments. Already, I can say that, in our opinion, the account is not there: the record is disappointing for the 2.2 million ultramarine French. You are not responsible for everything, minister, especially the structural ills already present long before your arrival. In the meantime, some exogenous events, if I may say so, have taken place: the movement of yellow vests, the current health crisis of which we have not yet removed the uncertainties, and even Hurricane Irma, which has affected a number of islands. I take it from you, minister, that we were the victims of Bercy, which gave us the feeling that we had become only a budgetary variable. One of the objectives of the presidential programme was "to support overseas activity and employment in order to combat unemployment and exclusion". As a result, after sittings and a blue book covering already known problems, we saw a reform of economic aid and other arrangements arrive in 2019, without consultation. Despite the increased budgets, the record under-consumption in 2019 shows: 49 million euros for the Overseas Mission and more than 2.7 billion euros for the State's overall effort. We are therefore turning from national solidarity to ultramarine solidarity. Let us remember that to date, there is no precise estimate of the reform of economic aid. This is demonstrated by the fact that, two years later, more than EUR 1.6 billion is still to be allocated to programme 138. We have the right to question the sincerity of the appropriations of the Overseas Mission. The presidential programme also provided for a renegotiation within the European Union to take better account of the specificities of our ultramarine territories. Our agricultural sectors are currently in danger. The diversification announced by the President of the Republic during his visit to La Réunion last autumn is at risk – I am referring here to the programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity – POSEI – and to the €45 million action fund that you know is insufficient. The aim of continuing to develop local production in order to move towards food self-sufficiency is now called into question, which causes great concern in the professional sectors. I do not go back to the exceptional investment fund – EIF – which, every year, impresses with its amounts but which disappoints by its level of implementation: 110 million euros of commitment authorisations but only 47 million euros of appropriations actually spent in 2019. Would our communities be unable to respond to the specifications? Were they restrained by the Cahors accords? And what about the overseas accommodation plan 2019-2020? The removal of the accession aid and the decline in the LBU have still not been visible and have done much harm. The housing plan must respond to the urgency of housing our families in decent and accessible housing, but also to the need to revive the construction sector, a major provider of jobs, which is living in its two worst years of the decade. Of course, we welcome the increase in the budget line for housing. I now turn to the convergence contracts provided for in the law on real equality overseas. Already disappointed by much of their content, we find it even less tolerable that the forecasts of the execution of these contracts are at the end of 2020, i.e. mid-term, of only 278 million in commitment authorisations and 163 million euros in payment appropriations out of more than 1.7 billion appropriations contracted. In view of these figures, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the proposal I am making on behalf of the Socialist and related Group: the creation of a mission on the implementation of convergence contracts. Behind all these tables, all these pages, all these accounts, these amounts of the transversal policy document – TPD – and of the "Overseas" mission that evaporate from one vote to the next, which are slow to be spent, is the daily life of the millions of French people in our territories at stake. In addition to housing, food and economic aid, I am also thinking of ways to combat violence against women, alcohol abuse and dengue fever in many of our territories. There would also be much to say about the criteria for calculating survivor's pensions, agricultural pensions or the cost of living. On many other issues, on which we have been able to question the ministers in charge, as well as on these issues raised for several years now, the answers provided have never really met our expectations. Finally, let us not forget our ultramarine companies which, depending on whether the territory has been confined or not, do not receive the same aid as at national level. However, the return of compelling reasons limits tourism and slows down freight, with a risk for supply costs at a significant period of the year. The modalities of the emergency and recovery plans must therefore be adapted as quickly as possible, as I wrote to you last Friday. Minister, without wanting to be alarmist, the time has come for disappointment. Don't let that disappointment turn into anger. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] For all the reasons mentioned, the Socialist and related group will abstain from the credits of the Overseas Mission for 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u22	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u23	After my colleague Naillet's speech, I think it is very complicated to study the budget for the Overseas Mission and explain it in five minutes, since we are finally dealing with all areas and activities, whether economic, cultural, social or environmental.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u24	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u25	This fact prompts me to tell you, Minister, that we should be able to change our approach to the consideration of these budgets in the National Assembly. It would be good if we had a really special time to review all these areas, because each time we are frustrated with the short time we have. Turning to the Mission's appropriations, it is true that they are stable or even increasing, which is a reason for satisfaction. That being said, we are dealing here with only 10% of the total amounts allocated to the overseas countries, which gives a partial vision. For my part, I will make the link with the exceptional finance bill, which reflects an exceptional period, and with the €100 billion recovery plan, including €1.5 billion dedicated to the overseas territories. We see a strategy emerging around three topics: ecology, territorial cohesion and competitiveness. I welcome the visibility of the appropriations relating to the environment, to the challenges of ecological planning and transition: EUR 50 million for the renovation of the water and sanitation networks; EUR 50 million for anti-seismic standards for buildings; EUR 80 million for agricultural processing. We welcome these guidelines, which are in the right direction, but we cannot refrain from talking about the real situation in our territories, which are really in crisis. We're very worried. It is true that this crisis is exceptional. As the Prime Minister told us last week, never in a century and the epidemic wave of the Spanish flu, France, Europe and the world had been confronted with a health crisis as serious and devastating as the one we have been going through for nearly ten months. Our territories are experiencing this crisis in an exacerbated way given their structural handicaps: very large additional costs; a poverty rate which, as I said to the Minister of Justice on Monday, is four to eight times higher than that of Hexagon; a 40% higher cost of living. If you add to this the weakness of local services, engineering, you get a situation where it is sometimes impossible to commit the available credits, which constitutes a major handicap. In this context, I fear that there will be a lack of visibility on the territorialisation of the recovery plan. If we find it difficult to spend conventional appropriations, what about those from the recovery plan? Yet it is clear – as all the ministers present here have said – that to succeed in this recovery plan, we must be able to act quickly and spend quickly, in order to reoxygenate our economies. I wanted to make you aware of this, Minister. Maybe you're already working on it? In any case, we could set up a task force to be really at the side of our territories and help them quickly launch all these projects. You have asked these communities to identify projects that can be operational very quickly. How can we launch them without delay? As far as Polynesia is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to two major points, starting with tourism and air transport. Our airline, Air Tahiti Nui, got a PGE. On the other hand, in our territories we have not benefited from all the measures of partial unemployment. We are in an exceptional phase, the Prime Minister said. In normal times, we have our autonomy status. Nevertheless, let us not misunderstand: the State can support all of our powers, without any hindrance since our organic law provides for it. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on a few benches of the groups LaREM and Dem. – Mr. Moetai Brother also applauds]] As far as solidarity is concerned, I wanted to thank you first of all for everything that has been done to support our businesses and to help us health. But what about the contractualization of the conventions under consideration: development and transformation contracts, "health and solidarity" conventions and "sustainability shelters"? Can you tell us very clearly when and where these conventions are going to start budgetaryly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u26	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u27	Five minutes for three oceans is too short to embrace all situations. In advance, I ask our colleagues from the West Indies, Guyana and La Réunion to apologize if I focus on the Pacific Ocean: I am speaking on behalf of Nicole Sanquer, Philippe Dunoyer and Philippe Gomès, who cannot be present. Several topics have attracted the attention of IDU and independent members of the IDU Group in this mission, starting with military subjects. That is why I would like first of all to welcome the opening of a third military service company adapted to Bourail, New Caledonia, with the creation of thirty-five full-time equivalent posts – FTEs. May this good news not make us forget that Pacific soldiers remain victims of persistent discrimination, as they still cannot claim the settlement allowance in metropolitan France. Our interventions always call for the same response: an adaptation of the compensation scheme for the installation of ultramarine soldiers in Hexagon will be envisaged in the general revision of the compensation regimes of the military. The Minister of the Armed Forces had the opportunity to recall this during the examination of the defence mission: this review can only take place if an interdepartmental agreement is first reached between the Minister of the Armed Forces, the Minister of the Civil Service and the Minister of Public Accounts. Let me tell you that this inequality does not satisfy us and that it must cease. I therefore hope, Mr Minister, that you will be able to support, or even provoke, this inter-ministerial agreement, in order to restore equality among our fellow citizens, especially among those who serve the nation, regardless of their origins. Territorial continuity is a second major issue in this budget. The increase in appropriations is commendable, but it does not make it possible to achieve the two major advances requested by the Pacific Members for several years. Firstly, the extension of the aid to territorial continuity for inter-island links in the archipelagos and for regional links, as it exists for Wallis-et-Futuna. Secondly, the revision of the eligibility ceilings and the ceilings for the take-over of the ticket, which are not adapted to the cost of living and the price of the air ticket between these communities and the metropolis. This year, the health crisis and its consequences in the overseas and Pacific regions is a third area of concern. In fact, Pacific communities remain excluded from the partial activity scheme. In order to urgently finance their own accompanying arrangements, they used an AFD loan amounting to EUR 240 million for New Caledonia, of which EUR 42 million is earmarked for the financing of partial unemployment. The Government has shown – particularly during your recent visit to the country, Minister – that it is open to the idea that the share of this loan covering the consequences of the health crisis can be transformed into a subsidy, in the form of national solidarity. Could you tell us whether the financing of part-time unemployment in these communities will be affected? This is obviously an express request from the two Members you met, Philippe Gomès and Philippe Dunoyer. Moreover, this difference in treatment as to the benefit of the partial business arrangement creates a distortion of competition between Pacific airlines – Air Tahiti Nui for French Polynesia and Aircalin for New Caledonia – and metropolitan companies like Air France. However, tourism plays a key role in the economy of these communities. With regard to the decline of the recovery plan, the Pacific Territories should benefit from the appropriations for the renovation of the State's public buildings. A plan for the renovation of gendarmerie premises is mentioned: what about it? What about the renovation of Camp Est de Nouméa, the prison of New Caledonia? His situation was very worrying, as the Council of State had pointed out. The recovery plan must provide an opportunity for an ambitious renovation of this prison. With regard to the environment, it is time for Pacific communities, the first victims of climate change, to benefit from a real green fund, dedicated to their adaptation to natural hazards, as they are the first exposed to them. More generally, what are the measures planned to preserve the environment overseas and in the Pacific? Finally, in the area of health, as part of the review of the Social Security Financing Bill, the IDU and Independent Group asked the Government about the double taxation to which some of our Polynesian compatriots are subject. Indeed, they must pay both the CSG – a generalised social contribution – and the CRDS – a contribution for the repayment of the social debt – and the costs of the local care system. The ministers on the bench did not answer us; We're waiting for this answer from you tonight. A health agreement should be signed between French Polynesia and the state, says Nicole Sanquer, and this budget does not mention this. Can you inform us about the Government's intentions in this regard? In conclusion, and subject to the answers to these questions, the IDU and independent group will vote for the appropriations for this mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u28	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u29	[[Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion, applauds]] Before I begin my remarks, I would like to have a thought for our compatriots living in non-Metropolitan territories – a designation that I prefer to that of "overseas". As a result of the bottling of the texts on the agenda, the study of the overseas mission's appropriations had to be staggered. I can easily see that this can be annoyed. Some of you are flying hours and hours to fulfill their mandate in this assembly – I know it's not easy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u30	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr. Member, this examination has been staggered and then rectified. It was originally scheduled for this afternoon, and the Government had planned to postpone it until Saturday. Together with all the group presidents, we have ensured that the debate will take place tonight and tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u31	Thank you for that clarification, Mr. President. I would like to reiterate all the esteem and respect that the Freedom and Territory Group attaches to all its citizens, regardless of their place of residence. When I refer to the appropriations for this mission, I also address a fraternal thought to our colleague Sylvain Brial, from Wallis-et-Futuna, who unfortunately cannot be present, for reasons of health. In the context we know, we welcome the slight increase in the budget for non-metropolitan territories: an increase of 6.39% in commitment authorities and 2.64% in payment appropriations. This increase relates in particular to programme 123, "Overseas Living Conditions", which pushes part of these credits towards housing and education. With regard specifically to this programme, we would like to alert you to the significant under-execution of the appropriations voted in the original finance law: it amounted to 61.7 million euros in 2019. What is true for this programme is also true for the entire mission. This is a recurring problem in non-Metropolitan territories. Our group had already mentioned last year the discrepancies between commitment authorisations and payment appropriations, which resulted in delays in the implementation and execution of projects. In concrete terms, these are roads, telecommunications systems, schools, which are not built in territories already suffering from a lack of infrastructure. The causes of this under-consumption of appropriations are known: a lack of engineering of the territorial public actors and the difficulties of the local authorities in providing the planned co-financing. The Libertés et Territoires Group is therefore pleased that an effort is being made to remedy this by consolidating the support of local and regional authorities through an increase in appropriations for convergence and transformation contracts. The implementation of the projects is also supported, through appropriations intended to finance the technical support operations of the Agence française de développement, the territorial engineering platforms deployed in Guyana and Mayotte, and the intervention of the Agence nationale de la cohésion des territoires. This may not be enough, but it is a welcome first step. This mission includes other positive elements: the EUR 17 million for the reconstruction of the Mata'Utu High School in Wallis, or the EUR 45 million allocated in the PLFSS, through the recovery plan, for the Wallis-et-Futuna Health Agency to carry out the work essential to the care structures. I also welcome the 8.7% increase in the budget line for overseas housing, which brings it to EUR 224 million in commitment authorisations. This is a positive signal to non-metropolitan territories in the fight against unworthy housing and access to housing. Will this be enough to achieve the target of 10,000 dwellings renovated or built per year outside Hexagon? Finally, I would like to mention the difficulties of the tourism sector. I regret that national arrangements are too weak to adapt to the particularities of these territories. The Liberties and Territories Group has long defended the need to take into account local specificities, through a more assertive right to decentralization and differentiation. On the occasion of the Interministerial Committee on Tourism – CIT – last May, the Government endorsed, in measure 21, the principle of a territorial decline in the plan for the revival of national tourism. We are still waiting for these sectoral and territorial road maps. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Maina Sage and Mr Moetai Brotherson also applaud]] For all the reasons I have just outlined, our group will vote for the overseas mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u32	[[At twenty-two five, Ms. Laetitia Saint-Paul replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u33	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u34	Some of you before me have said their pleasure to go up to this rostrum for the first time; I am pleased to go up there for the first time as Minister for Overseas Affairs, as well as to defend this budget, whose appropriations are increasing significantly. I would like to apologize: in ten minutes, of course, I will not be able to answer all the questions that have been asked to me; we will return to the others during the discussion of the articles. Before going into the details, a word about the health crisis: the ultramarine territories have been or are particularly affected by this crisis of the covid-19. If we see a significant improvement in the indicators in Guadeloupe, after complicated weeks, a relative stability in Réunion, in French Guiana still in Mayotte, the situation is more tense in Martinique, where confinement has been decided, and in French Polynesia, which is experiencing a worrying increase in cases. The prefects or high commissioners take appropriate measures in each territory to contain the epidemic. Once again, I assure you that the State is at the side of the various overseas territories to face this health, economic and social crisis. As has been said, the Overseas Mission is only a small part of the State budget devoted to these territories. I will endeavour to expose the spirit and transversality of the latter. The overseas budget covers 31 missions and 94 programmes; In total, they reach EUR 19.6 billion in commitment authorisations and EUR 19.2 billion in payment appropriations. To parliamentarians who have argued that this could be a lack of ambition, I would remind them that in 2012 the same appropriations amounted to 13.7 billion euros and 16.6 billion euros in 2017. Here I am in front of you tonight with a budget that covers 20 billion euros: I think we need to know how to recognize it. The appropriations for four of the 31 missions concerned exceed EUR 1 billion: "Overseas", "Relations with local and regional authorities", "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility" and "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities". Two missions spend significant staff costs on the overseas sector: €4.7 billion is allocated for the payment of salaries for national education staff, and the internal security forces' staff costs amount to just over € 1 billion. Within the missions, this finance bill includes several good news. The first concerns the mission "Relationship with local and regional authorities", for which I had previously been responsible: the catch-up of the DACOM – the allocation for the development of the overseas communes and territorial districts – continues, in accordance with the commitment made last year by the President of the Republic in the framework of the great national debate. This movement will accelerate next year: during the revision of the DACOM, we will propose you to legislate for four years. As of next year, the amount of equalisation towards local and regional authorities will increase by almost EUR 17 million. In the "School education" mission, 42 million euros of the programmes dedicated to teaching and 37 million euros of the programme 230, "Life of the student", are directed towards Mayotte and Guyana – again, this was a commitment of the Head of State. It would of course be inconceivable this year to discuss the overseas mission without referring to the recovery plan. I have heard that the budgets concerned are basically similar; They are distinguished by the notable exception of the EUR 1.5 billion envelope to the overseas territories. This is a base, i.e. the final amount will only be higher. These appropriations will enable significant commitments to be made for the territories. Several figures provide a precise and concrete representation. In order to speed up the construction and renovation of water and sewerage networks, EUR 50 million is foreseen, and amendments have been tabled to this effect; In this area, the responsibility of local and regional authorities should also be borne in mind; We will return, Mr. Ratenon, to re-establish some truths. The West Indies earthquake plan has 50 million euros, in addition to the appropriations already committed. For the transformation of agriculture and the equipment of slaughterhouses, EUR 80 million is allocated, which does not remove, Mr Naillet, the efforts of the President of the Republic to defend the budgets and appropriations of the POSEI. Very important resources are also devoted to employment and training, of the order of EUR 500 million. Finally, sub-envelopes have been defined to finance certain measures, notably in the area of biodiversity protection or road infrastructure, particularly in Guyana or in La Réunion. This has not been sufficiently said this evening, but we must add to these appropriations the allocation of EUR 1 billion, which will be paid directly by the European Union to the various overseas departments and regions – DROM – in the framework of the European Recovery Plan, REACT-EU, for consumption by 2023. Again, the consumption of credit will be a key objective. As President Lagarde, Ms. Maina Sage or Mr. Moetai Brotherson have mentioned, one of the challenges for overseas communities will be to connect them to the recovery plan, in the areas corresponding to the transferred competences, which the state no longer exercises, whatever is said to be. An example of this is health skills; We need to find appropriate coordination with the different countries. The recent visit of President Édouard Fritch and my own visit to New Caledonia to Paris was an opportunity for me to come back to these matters of coordination. Our role is to help communities, to accompany them through our operators, such as AFD, which contributes to the deployment of the "Investments for the Future" mission; They are, of course, eligible for the proposed financing, through financial support for the local governments' cash flow, with the two loans granted, we will return to them, and through investments falling within the scope of the State's powers, in particular those of the Regalian powers. The mission that I am presenting to you tonight consists of two programmes; it has increased by 6% in commitment authorisations and by 2.5% in payment appropriations. The real issue is not so much about the amounts recorded, presented and voted, as about those actually called for consumption – I believe that we should immediately be given that responsibility and not put on each other. Under programme 138, "Overseas employment", commitment authorisations increase by EUR 107 million and payment appropriations by EUR 93 million. As a result of the health, economic and social situation, this programme is very much observed at this time. Under the Overseas Economic Development Act (LODEOM), we provide support to businesses by increasing the compensation for employers' expenses to more than 6.6%. Mr Stéphane Claireaux, whom I welcome, defended, during the examination of the PLFSS, an amendment, adopted by your House, aimed at extending this enhanced competitiveness regime to the audiovisual sector, in accordance with a rather old demand. With regard to the integration aid, a third company of the RSMA – regiment of adapted military service – was established in Bourail. Program 123, "Overseas Living Conditions", is the most viewed, in particular with regard to the implementation of payment appropriations. The commitment authorisations entered in it increase by EUR 55 million, with three main priorities. The first is housing, which will be widely discussed in the discussion of the amendments. The appropriations concerned increase by 8.7%, i.e. EUR 224 million, of which EUR 18 million in commitment authorisations are specifically earmarked for public land holdings in Guyana and Mayotte. The second priority is education, including the rehabilitation of the Wallis-et-Futuna State High School or the renovation of first-degree schools in Mayotte. The third important aspect is support for local communities. The exceptional investment fund is stable, while the DSID – the department's investment support allocation – is obviously increasing as part of the recovery plan, with all DROMs eligible, of course. The DETR – the provision of equipment for rural areas – is also stable, with just over EUR 1 billion, of which 35 million are directly directed towards the overseas: EUR 22 million for DROMs and EUR 13 million for COMs – since the municipalities of the Pacific communities are eligible for DETR funding. Finally, the convergence and transformation contracts have been signed and, of course, continue to be deployed. The Government will propose two amendments to this mission. We are not very proud of the first, because it is the result of collective and consensual work by all the political groups of the National Assembly and the Senate: it aims to allow the legal and financial creation of the famous contracts for the local authorities, known as Patient-Cazeneuve, from the name of the two parliamentarians who have drawn up the report that defines them. This report is a real plan for the recovery of local finances in the overseas communities. Between the carrot and the stick, they chose not to use the stick, but only to encourage structural recovery. The other important and expected amendment concerns daily life, since it relates to territorial continuity. It was after a report by the delegation to the overseas countries and territories that you chaired, Mr Olivier Serva, that a reflection on the subject was initiated in January. A second working meeting, attended by all of you, was held in September. Several measures were announced on this occasion, such as the increase in the amount of the good ACT – aid for territorial continuity – in the overseas communities, which will allow about 40% of the price of the ticket as in the DROM, or the opening of the passport for the mobility of studies to non-graduate courses. The majority of the proposals are not of a legislative nature, except for the one - we shall come back - concerning the extension of the benefit of the aid to the territorial continuity of the funeral. An amendment tabled by Mr Serva, who was very involved in the matter, will enable us to meet the expectations that have been expressed. This assistance will now be open to the brothers and sisters of the deceased and will cover the journeys linked to the end of life. The total cost of these measures is estimated at EUR 3 million. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Maina Sage and Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir also applaud]] You see it, ladies and gentlemen, for me too, it is not very easy to talk about the three oceans, all these subjects and 20 billion euros in ten minutes, but, you understand, our commitment is total to improve the daily life of our citizens overseas and to define a strategic future for each of these territories, with the adaptation that the Republic owes them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u35	We come to the questions. Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u36	Mr Minister, this question is asked by my colleague Jean-Philippe Nilor, with his usual verve, by my voice. Throughout the world, the pandemic undermines established systems, as well as the most persistent forms of social organization and control, leading to a complete overhaul of public policies. However, our territories are inexorably bogged down in a crisis management disconnected from local realities, which follows an outdated software. Solutions, thought in Parisian and catapulted cabinets from Paris, ignore local expertise. Inadequate, even erratic, decisions are supposedly made between our favors, for our own good, but, alas, without any consultation with us. This is reflected in recent initiatives to retroactively amend the contracts for the sale of photovoltaic electricity before 2011, as well as the creation of a production grant to the optical and bakery sectors, which will paradoxically increase prices, penalise local production and encourage imports. The adaptation measures proposed by the elected representatives on the ground that we are are systematically rejected with a back-end. This was the fate of the two legitimate amendments that I defended on the occasion of the PLFSS vote in 2021. They sought to adopt a plan for the discharge of corporate tax and social debts, relayed and supported by Members of Parliament from all sides, including your own, and for the creation of an accompanying fund dedicated to TPEs in ultramarine rural areas, indispensable in this context of aggravated crisis. Exit, therefore, the main economic actors, self-employed workers and leaders of TPE. Do they have to resign themselves to disappear in silence? What about health personnel, carefully forgotten? What of the population, concerned about the number of victims of the second epidemic wave? Yet, these territories you say of "overseas" have experts and other intelligences who have studied at the best universities in France and elsewhere. Their proposals therefore deserve more consideration and respect. Are the Minister, economic actors and Members of Parliament from overseas too incompetent to be listened to in the management of this crisis? When will you finally emerge from this colonial, caricatural vision that Paris must decide everything for us?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u37	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u38	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Believe me, honourable Member, that the friendship I feel for you creates a filter in the answer I will give to Mr.Nilor. I can't let you talk about colonial behavior. Words make sense. I'm not the minister of the colonies, I'm the minister of the overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u40	I am also an elected representative of the Republic, a local elected official. For a month and a half, I've been a parliamentarian. I do not have the feeling that my teams, my firm or myself, nor the general management of the overseas countries – to be quite clear – the prefecture of Martinique are showing the contempt that is mentioned in this question. That sometimes parliamentarians push different initiatives, ideas and opinions, that at some point a vote allows us to split up and that we can say yes or no to them, is part of the game of public management. Every mayor and city council can do it. Other ministers have done so before me – I welcome Mrs Pau Langevin here. But to pretend that the administration of our country and the public service of our Republic are now colonial in nature is to undermine the substance of the problems. Our overseas fellow citizens deserve better than this caricature. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Of course, my remarks are not aimed at you, Mr. Brotherson. If I address you, it's like a messenger.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u42	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u43	On housing in La Réunion, we know almost everything about the immense needs, the quantified and updated objectives, the recurrent difficulties in keeping them, the worrying delay in the start-up and the new challenge of rehabilitation. Our fellow citizens remind us every day of the consequences, on their lives, of this rental tension that does not diminish and that they sometimes suffer from generation to generation. I would like to focus on two particular audiences, whose situation has long been a blind point in housing policies and is therefore lagging even further behind. Let's start with the elderly who are dependent and/ or disabled. Réunion is one of the youngest regions in France, but its population is ageing rapidly. In only twenty years, the over-65s will make up a quarter of the population. Although the retention of older persons at home has been a priority at all times, we can only be struck by the weakness of collective housing, which has a supply three times lower than at the national level. Twenty-three approved EHPAD-type structures have only 1570 seats. This shortage has allowed clandestine structures to flourish, characterized by ill-treatment and unworthy housing conditions, which have recently been denounced. For a long time, these brown pensions must no longer be the compensation variable of a failing offer. The challenge is to meet current needs and the high demand ahead. Could a specific fund dedicated to these habitat modes not be created to meet such a particular and vital objective? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, FI and SOC groups]] On the student side, the needs are immense, since the number of university rooms can only satisfy 10% of requests. The pressure is even stronger this year, when the University of La Réunion recorded the record 1300 additional enrolments, equivalent to four years of increase in enrolment. The simple declination of the national plan 60000 student housing units, which had already been damaged, could not be the only solution. It is urgent to go beyond this, as student housing is one of the keys to university success, especially for our most modest young people, who are also the most numerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u44	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u45	On the overseas housing reform, it will be difficult to answer in two minutes. During the discussion of the amendments, we shall come back to the functioning of this famous LBU, on which it is time to define more detailed and precise priorities. When there is a great deal of money, it often happens that the credits are neither called nor consumed in full. The department of La Réunion is the one where the largest number of them fall. A lot of Bercy's evil is said, but it is important to know that my ministry is one of the ones that gives him the largest sums every year, which could not be spent. This is one of the problems we have to tackle. You cite two types of housing for which the same tools are not used – and for reasons! For EHPADs, hospital health facilities, there is necessarily a sharing with the departmental council and pricing issues. It is a complex matter on which we shall return. The State will accompany the various EHPAD projects. These provisions are included in the Secur de la santé, as they may form part of the policies that my department can support. Student housing follows other methods of governance. Convergence and transformation contracts – CTC – fund certain projects. This is the case in the Tampon, municipality of La Réunion, as well as in another municipality where we accompany these projects which we must achieve territorialisation. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] Can we pursue the same housing policy in the West Indies, where we see a significant ageing of the population and where we need to organize an offer for the elderly quickly, as in Mayotte, where the stakes are to house younger people? We know we don't. We have repeated it in the framework of the PLOM – overseas accommodation plan. Now, we have to adapt the tools and, I'm sorry to say, make them easier to use, more accessible, because you often spend more time building a project than the cranes will build the buildings. That is one of the issues that must bring us together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u46	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u47	Mr Serville, who was unable to participate in our debates, asked me to ask you the following question on his behalf. Mr Minister, the budget allocated by your Ministry to Guyana foresees for next year a reduction of 2 million payment appropriations entirely charged to the financing of the construction of social housing. Yet this territory is facing an unprecedented housing crisis. The chronic deficit is estimated at 4000 dwellings per year with annual production of less than 1500 units. In addition, 80 per cent of Guyanan households are eligible for social housing, while only 16 per cent of the total population is eligible for social housing. This decline is all the less understandable since, at the initiative of Mr Serville, Guyana has been the subject of a national interest operation since 2016, and for 20 years, this must be carried out, which requires the mobilisation of a single budget line. However, the appropriations clearly do not follow. Of course, there are funds from the "Relaunch Plan" mission. But, apart from the fact that we still do not have a territorial allocation key, should we assume that these funds will replace the "Emergency Plan" fund and not be added to it? In other words, is it again a matter of stripping Peter to dress Paul? Mr Minister, it seems to me important to recall that, for the first time in July, INSEE calculated the poverty rate in Guyana by referring to the national poverty line and not to the local threshold artificially invoked so far? The result is edifying. The Institute reveals that 53 per cent of Guyanans – and thus more than one in two Guyanans – live below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u48	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u49	You will allow me, Madam Member of Parliament, to go through you to answer Mr. Serville. If we turn to politics, we can obviously use the visual effects of the EAs and CPs to say that the budget is shrinking. If we look more calmly and calmly at the budget of housing in the overseas countries, we understand better why the appropriations are returned. This year, my ministry has had to return €75 million to the state budget by default of credit consumption, particularly on housing. We're not going to tell each other stories. To know Guyana well, we know that if housing projects progress slowly, it is for three reasons. This can be due, first of all, to governance problems, as the situation between local and regional authorities and decision-makers can be complicated. You know something about La Réunion: it can be difficult to sit everyone at the same table, and the fault – sorry to say it very quietly – is not the responsibility of the Government. Second possible cause: engineering. In that case, everyone bears the responsibility. Contrary to what Mr.Nilor suggested by Mr.Brotherson's voice, it is not a question of intelligence. This is due only to the fact that, in the overseas regions, the adaptation of standards is particularly complex. These standards were not invented by me one morning, but by Parliament over the years, for ten, fifteen or even twenty years. When it comes to protecting the environment, avoiding the consumption of agricultural land and respecting the coastline, it is necessarily more difficult to build. It remains to be seen how to combine these standards. The third possible reason – notably in Guyana and Mayotte – is the identification of land. That is why, in this budget, we abounded with the FTEs – public land establishment – of Guyana and Mayotte. Indeed, colossal land consolidation work is needed upstream of construction. In La Réunion, given the topography, history, heritage and organization of local and regional authorities, rehabilitation is easier. In short, if we go into politics, there is a problem with EI and CP; If we really want to move forward, there are solutions and money in this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u50	Mrs Manuela Kéclard-Mondésir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u51	My question concerns the employment of young people, which is the main concern of the overseas elected representatives. Of the 66,000 young people under the age of 30, half are neither in training nor in employment. These young people are not taken into account in any integration arrangements and often have no prospect of work. Too often, this part of the youth has dropped out of the education system and is not trained. In my northern constituency of Martinique, 65% of young people are young. In addition, unemployment is a huge challenge, leaving local communities, businesses, associations and families destitute. For these young people, for families and for these structures, it is a personal and collective tragedy. This situation often has another consequence: the departure, sometimes forced, of young people, which increases the accelerated ageing of our populations. The observation is that in the 25-30 age group, only 50% of those who stayed in the country are working, while 80% of those who left in France – as you prefer – have found work. This sad reality underscores the lack of development and highlights the lack of a policy adapted to the overseas environment. This is the case with the CECs, the career paths skills – mentioned by my colleague Karine Lebon during the questions to the Government – and the CIUs, the single integration contracts. Therefore, Mr Minister, we hope that you will design and initiate a new and genuine overseas policy that will make the fight for employment, especially that of young people, a top priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u53	The issue of youth employment refers to a number of policies: school education – to which I said we devote very important resources; Integration – the RSMA, which saves many young people, let us remember, receives annual increases in funding; training and learning, aimed at promoting entry into the labour market; Finally, protection mechanisms, which take on particular importance with the crisis we are experiencing. You asked me more specifically about the CECs and the ICUs. It is worth adding the CIEs, the own-initiative employment contracts, which concern the market sector – I note in your question a tropism for public employment. As part of the recovery plan, we will allocate considerable resources to the CECs. The visit I had made in August to La Réunion had allowed me to make a wide overview on this subject. In 2021, as part of the recovery plan, 122000 additional contracts will be released. Of this sizeable volume, 20 to 21 per cent should apply to overseas countries, as we plan to retain the usual allocation key. Above all, we are going to raise the rate of state support for CECs to 65%, knowing that prefects will have the possibility of modulating this rate within the limits of the envelope. We should also mention the efforts we are making to increase the overall operating allocation of local and regional authorities and the Patient-Cazeneuve contracts that we are going to introduce. It should be noted that the State itself, in its services or operators, welcomes young people in the framework of the CECs. The level of commitment is therefore quite considerable. Does the state have to take full responsibility for the CECs? Our answer is no, and we assume it, it's a former mayor and then president of departmental council who tells you. If we want the CECs to have their effects and the support to be appropriate, the contract between the young beneficiary and the territorial community hosting it must be win-win. I believe I have given you a precise answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u54	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u55	I would like to draw your attention to the training and vocational integration of young people in Mayotte. As you know, Mayotte is the youngest department in France, with over 55% of the population under 20. This should be an asset, but this young person faces many socio-economic difficulties, as can be seen from the indicators, in particular the high drop-out rate: every year more than 3000 young people leave the school system without qualifications; 75% of them have difficulty reading, compared with 9.6% in the rest of France. In the 15-29 age group, four out of ten young people are unemployed or trained, or about 25,000 people. In the 20-29 age group, the proportion increases to six out of ten. The result is a high unemployment rate: 53% in this second age group. On the other hand, 64% of jobseekers have no diplomas, and only 4% have a higher level of baccalaureate. Most of them were born abroad and want to work. In 2018, in Mayotte, 6% of jobs corresponded to CECs, formerly aided contracts. However, the integration is low at the end of the CECs: six months after the end of the contract, only one in five beneficiaries are in employment, whereas this proportion is twice as high in metropolitan France. The finding is therefore without appeal. What can be done to improve the situation? How to develop apprenticeships, alternance contracts and CECs? How best to adapt and territorialise the offer of employment and vocational training? It would be essential to have visibility on all vocational integration programmes and to improve their readability. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Minister, at the dawn of the tenth anniversary of the départementalisation of Mayotte, assistance to our young people must remain one of the priorities of public action in this territory and the corollary of support for its endogenous development.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u56	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u57	Your question follows on from Mrs Kéclard-Mondésir's. As I have indicated, we will release considerable resources for the CECs under the recovery plan and support the local and regional authorities by increasing their overall operating allocation. I come specifically to the department of Mayotte. We give priority to education. In the 2021 finance bill, we have provided €13.6 million to accelerate the construction and renovation of school facilities. Moreover, this is not a single funding, since an equivalent amount will be allocated each year. In addition, the major training plan "one young person, one solution", which was presented by the Government, will be fully implemented overseas, notably in Mayotte, where €47 million will be allocated to the regional skill investment pact. For a long time, such a large amount of money had not been spent on training. We will also make a major effort in favour of the RSMA, 30 million euros for the department of Mayotte alone. The RSMA works well, and one ends up considering that it goes without saying – as my grandmother said, "a cake swallowed no longer tastes." In Mayotte, the RSMA accompanies 700 volunteers a year, and the integration rate of the young people concerned is one of the highest for this scheme, 83%, which is quite remarkable – you can be proud of it, Member. Moorish youth also aspire to security, to a future in a soothing society. This wish is expressed throughout the territory of the Republic, but probably even more so in Mayotte. I do not have time to raise the issue further in this budgetary debate, but we will have the opportunity to come back together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u58	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u59	My colleague Justine Benin would be grateful if you would excuse her for her absence, which is for personal reasons. My question to you, Minister, is his; It concerns housing, a point which you have already addressed and which I am sure you will be able to develop. In 2021, the single budget line for housing will increase by 8.7%, with commitment authorisations amounting to EUR 224 million. However, payment appropriations will decrease by 2.7%. Personalized home support for home ownership – APL accession – which had been abolished, was restored by the Finance Act for 2020, following the mobilization of parliamentarians. In this draft finance law, overseas budgetary requirements in this area have been set at €7 million in commitment authorizations. We would like to know the methodology that led to this encryption. Will this amount be sufficient to cover all the needs of the ultramarine territories? Given their social structures, the precariousness of households and the lack of housing, it is essential that the use of this right be guaranteed to all those in need. In addition, can you tell us how the transfers to companies provided for in this draft budget – in particular aid for engineering or for the implementation of parasismic and anti-cyclonic standards – will be linked with the funds dedicated to the recovery in the ultramarine territories? Are these funds complementary? Finally, the December 2019 Patient-Cazeneuve report recommended that the exceptional overseas investment fund, the EIF, be made more flexible, allowing 100% subsidisation of the projects of the municipalities that have concluded an accompanying contract and comply with the commitments they have made in this framework to regain a sound financial trajectory. Are you ready to go in this direction to support communities in their investments, which could include housing?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u60	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u61	Allow me to have a special thought for your colleague Justine Benin and to address him a little friendly word. The funds of the recovery plan are in addition to those of the missions that the Government presents to you, in particular those of the Overseas Mission. I will not be able to answer all the questions you have asked in two minutes. I shall therefore turn to the mechanism inspired by the Patient-Cazeneuve report when I present the Government's amendment in a moment's time. I already confirm that we are part of a win-win logic for communities and the state. I devote my remaining time to the question of housing. Will the credits be enough? As far as housing is concerned, I repeat, we are not able to spend all the payment appropriations provided for; The economics of finding are even reaching a considerable level. So let us not turn around the pot, let us even be very clear: where there will be projects, there will be financing. The real challenge is to define our priority housing objectives. In my opinion, there are three major axes. First axis: the rehabilitation of the existing social park, which concerns tenants. In the present case, it is the territorial authorities which are in the process of manoeuvring, through the various offices and operators of the sector, in particular the mixed-economy companies of which they are often shareholders. I recall the measures we are taking: extending the tax credit for renovation and rehabilitation work; creation of a tax credit for demolition operations; increase in appropriations from the single budget line. Secondly, the fight against unsanitaryness in the private park, which particularly affects the large communes of certain ultramarine territories. Again, the single budget line is being requested, knowing that we have re-established the accession LPA, as you noted. It is up to the mayors to move very quickly on this point, because it is they who can interact with the different owners. Third axis: housing for people in great insecurity. We will have the opportunity to come back to this when we consider the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u62	I don't think we'll have the pleasure of hearing from Mrs. Le Pen tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u63	That pleasure, we'll be all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u64	So we're done with the questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u65	I call the "Overseas" mission's credits, listed in statement B. I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 2222 and 2177. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 2222.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u66	It follows the mission led by Jean-René Cazeneuve, president of the delegation to local authorities and the decentralization of the National Assembly, and by Georges Patient, senator of Guyana, recently elected vice-president of the Senate. It aims to create an accompanying contract for ultramarine territorial authorities and to include in this text the corresponding commitment authorisations – the scheme is multiannual – as well as 10 million payment appropriations for 2021, the first year of its implementation. It is a moose mechanism – Mr Vuilletet will probably mention it. Interested communities will apply for a recovery plan. This will involve, first of all, a major effort in financial diagnosis and engineering, for which the Agence française de développement will be widely requested. The commitments will cover the conduct of some structural reforms, tax rebases, compliance with accounting instructions for communities, the relationship with the Regional Chamber of Accounts and improved transparency in the disclosure of financial documents to the deliberative assembly. In the light of the recovery efforts thus made, the State will provide financial support, which will enable the local public authorities to regain their position and to restore prospects, particularly in the field of operation, since personnel costs remain a major challenge in most ultramarine communities. I would like to add a word on global philosophy. We have been very decentralized, we have given important powers to local and regional authorities – I am thinking of Parliament's historic decisions in this area, including the Defferre laws and the 2003 reform. However, if the financial health of the communities is not ensured, it is tantamount to breaking down some of the local public policies. We have sometimes found deficiencies as communities are no longer able to exercise a transferred jurisdiction. This has been the case in the case of overseas communities, whether covered by article 73 or article 74 of the Constitution. I am not going back to the delicate question of water in Guadeloupe. We therefore make a bet on the future, based on trust, in order to chart a path towards a return to balance for local finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u67	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet to support Amendment No. 2177.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u68	The Minister has extensively presented the philosophy and content of these two identical amendments. I apologize for Jean-René Cazeneuve's absence: being in contact, he cannot defend himself tonight the work he has done with Senator Georges Patient, a work that I would like to pay tribute to. These accompanying contracts are fundamental: in the long run, they will enable dozens of communities to return to the path of public action, hampered by their financial difficulties. We are talking about contracts, so we are talking about mutual commitments for the correction and consolidation of accounts. Much has been said about engineering. Far from my will to stigmatize anyone, but when one is completely prevented by his own financial difficulties, yes, there are engineering problems. These contracts are precisely one of the solutions that must be brought to enable these communities to become the vectors of public action, in the service of the general interest in their own territory. It's indispensable! I will go even further: these contracts are also important for the local economy as the whole economic fabric tends to be weakened by delays in payment or the absence of a public order. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups]] We therefore look forward to the creation of these contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u69	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u70	Minister, the discussion of the amendments is beginning in a good way! I am very pleased with this proposal, which serves the interests of the overseas local authorities. For many years, many have followed a bad path that has led them to find themselves under the supervision of the Regional Chamber of Accounts. I am thinking of the community of Pointe-à-Pitre – which is in my constituency – and those of Saint-Louis and Grand-Bourg in Marie-Galante, those of Basse-Terre or Anse-Bertrand – I could multiply the examples. The contract you propose will lead them, according to their good will, to get out of the rut. I therefore give a very favourable opinion to these amendments, which are the result of the excellent work of Georges Patient and Jean-René Cazeneuve, and which can only go in the right direction. We will ensure that the appropriations are well spent, whether they are already available in 2021 or the other EUR 20 million planned for the next two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u71	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u72	I also welcome the work of Messrs. Patient and Cazeneuve: it is an excellent thing that it is quickly followed by effects. On the other hand, I would not like these amendments to endorse a certain state of mind with regard to the overseas communities. It is necessary to understand why they have sometimes found themselves in difficult situations. Perhaps this is a purely political debate, but it is necessary. First, the underdevelopment of these communities almost automatically results in tax revenues that are 30% lower than those of metropolitan municipalities of equivalent size. Second, it has been clearly established that the state, regardless of government, has provided ultramarine municipalities with 30% less funding and subsidies than communities of the same size in Hexagon. Third point: for a very long time, the communes of Martinique, Guadeloupe and French Guiana have served as a social valve in the face of a very serious maldevelopment. Indeed, the only solution that the State had found, through Michel Debré, was the creation of BUMIDOM – Bureau pour le développement des migrations dans les départements d'outre-mer – which aimed to limit the demographic and economic surplus of the overseas countries by directing it to the posts and hospitals of the metropolis. This policy completely emptied the overseas departments and regions of their inhabitants and if the municipalities had not applied social measures to retain as many people as possible, we would not be 370,000 inhabitants in Martinique, but 200000. Finally, if Mr. Patient and Mr. Cazeneuve are right to propose this structural support, we must bear in mind the weight that the regulation on wage developments represents for the communities: because of the so-called technical old age shift, communities can see their payroll increase even when they reduce their staff. That is why the financing you are proposing can only be a first step in an investment dynamic. Indeed, it is through investment that a local community is enriched.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u73	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u74	I, in turn, would like to support these amendments. And I would like to mention the following, point 1903, which my colleague Justine Benin asked me to defend on her behalf. It also aims to establish accompanying contracts between the State and the municipalities in difficulty, but for a lesser amount: EUR 5 million in 2021 compared to EUR 30 million over three years. That is why we will withdraw it for the benefit of the Government. However, my colleague has asked me to draw your attention, Mr.Minister, to the fact that the report by Mr. Cazeneuve and Patient also recommend deploring the EIF's grants and allowing it to finance 100% of the projects of the municipalities involved in an accompanying contract. Was the Government considering that possibility?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u75	Amendment No 1903 by Mrs Justine Benin has therefore just been defended by Mrs Maina Sage. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u76	As Mrs Sage has said very well, this amendment has the same aim as those just adopted, unlike it foresees a smaller amount. I therefore ask for his withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u77	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u78	To answer your question about the EIF, a measure of the law of 27 December 2019 on engagement in local life and proximity in public action already allows prefects to fail to comply with the 80% limit for grants to contractors. Given the Government's control of this measure, it is quite possible to make it available to the overseas communities who would sign an accompanying contract. And with regard to Mrs Benin's present amendment, I would ask for his withdrawal, since he is satisfied with the device you have just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u79	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 2158.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u80	This is an appeal amendment that I had already tabled when I considered the third amending finance bill. It aims to ensure that ultramarine companies of strategic interest can benefit from exceptional funds as well as some national companies such as Air France or Renault. I propose to create a fund to support ultramarine companies of strategic interest that each community could identify on its own territory – in French Polynesia, these are those of the tourism and air transport sectors. Indeed, a tool of this dimension is lacking to meet the exceptional demands of companies, which are real vectors of development. I would like to mention in my opening statement the very worrying situation of Air Tahiti Nui. Polynesia already owns 85% of the capital of this mixed economy company; It is therefore not possible for us to substantially increase our participation in order to help the company, which we can only bail out and support with the limited means at our disposal. It has benefited from a PGE, but has Air France not just had access to a second exceptional loan covered at 100% and does it not benefit, unlike our companies, from national arrangements such as partial activity? We need to think about an exceptional arrangement in response to this unprecedented situation which neither the territory alone nor the company alone will be able to cope with. The competition which Air Tahiti Nui might suffer tomorrow would also be almost unfair in relation to the State aid granted to Air France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u82	On the merits, you're absolutely right. We will come back to this on several occasions during the examination of the amendments, there is a problem of territorial continuity in the overseas countries, where some communities, like Polynesia, which spreads over a large area like Europe, may suffer from a "double insularity". As for Air Tahiti Nui, there is no doubt that it is an ultramarine company of national interest. In terms of form, you support your proposal with the EIF, which finances structural investments and not direct business support. In addition, a sum of EUR 100 million seems to be heavy to bear for the "Overseas" mission alone. For these two reasons, I would therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u84	I see this amendment as an appeal amendment to re-discuss the issue of airlines. We did so with the President of French Polynesia Édouard Fritch, as well as members of the government and parliamentarians in the community during their recent visit to Paris. As you recalled, Air Tahiti Nui is already accompanied by the PGE device, but it is true that the company has concerns for the future. And because: the crisis continues to plague. I will ask you to withdraw your amendment, Mrs Sage, because the EIF provides assistance to the municipalities, not to the airlines; Of course, you knew that. The question that you raise is that of the resumption of discussions on airlines in the context of the continuing health crisis. We have done so with Air France and it is now appropriate to do so with the other companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u85	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u86	Thank you, Minister, rapporteur, for your substantive support. In terms of form, we had to find a line of credit that would allow us to propose this amount of EUR 100 million, but, as I said, it was indeed an appeal amendment. We must now give this company, by the end of the year, maximum visibility. Like all airlines in the world, those operating overseas are affected by the crisis. We interviewed their representatives last week as part of the overseas delegation and it turns out that the resumption of activity is only expected to take place in 2023 or 2024. The aim is therefore to support them in 2021 and 2022 to enable them to pass this crisis. I reiterate my thanks and therefore withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u87	I'll take it back!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u88	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor to support Amendment No. 2207.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u89	It aims to draw the Government's attention to the economic situation in our territory. While the recovery plan allocated more than EUR 358 million to the ultramarine territories – of which EUR 95 million for La Réunion – and while 5500 companies from Réunion benefited from PGE, it should be recalled, as a colleague did earlier, that 4,300 jobs were destroyed in Réunion due to the crisis. I myself had made two proposals, which were not considered admissible under article 40 of the Constitution. The first was to extend the repayment period for EMPs by one year. And the second was to transform – of course under conditions – EMPs into equity funds, which our companies lack in a structural way; This is a well-known problem. The confinement that we know here in the hexagonal territory, the limitation of travel, makes a sector of activity in our country in great difficulty: that of tourism. There is also a question – as I said earlier – of freight, which, if limited, would be a real problem for some of our sectors at the end of the year. Finally, with regard to the recovery plan, its implementation must be truly territorialized in order to correspond to the realities of our economic fabric. Calls for projects must be in line with these realities so that local companies can reap the greatest benefit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u90	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u91	You rightly ask the question of the measurement of the consumption of the credits of the "Support for business" action. The Overseas Department shares this concern and is based, in this case, on ACOSS's forecasts, knowing that in the event of a variance, the amounts are charged to its budget. So I'll join you on the bottom. On the form, you propose to draw EUR 50 million from the "Overseas Living Conditions" programme to report on the "Business Support" action. This seems too much for your proposal to be admissible. The committee has not considered this amendment, but I would ask you personally to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u92	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u93	Your amendment is an amendment calling for several drawers and, in particular, for the territorialisation of the recovery plan. However, we cannot think as if the health crisis was behind us. For the time being, the real support for the economy does not come from the recovery plan but from emergency measures, which the overseas region has enjoyed as well as the whole of the territory, particularly in the tourism sector. Allow me here to recall the various amounts of emergency aid released for all the overseas territories: this amounts to a total of EUR 4 billion, including EUR 3 billion in EMPs, EUR 450 million in partial unemployment, EUR 450 million in carry-overs, EUR 430 million in the solidarity fund and EUR 150 million in compensation for tax revenues not collected by local authorities – and I do not go back to EUR 1.5 billion in the recovery plan. The real challenge will be first of all to analyse the impact of partial unemployment and the various exemptions because, in order to be exempted, there must still be wages paid. However, it is partial unemployment that is primarily sought, which is not without consequences. The crisis continues, we must remain responsive and respond to business demands. No one would understand that it would be otherwise, and we should pay tribute here to the government departments, particularly the regional branches of public finance – DRFiP – who are doing a remarkable job of paying out the support fund in record time. It is obvious that at some point an assessment will have to be carried out on a territory-by-territory basis. The tourist seasons are not the same in Hexagon as in the different overseas territories, so the loss of profits in some areas is not the same; the BTP does not obey the same logics and does not depend in the same way on the public order according to the territories; The virus finally did not circulate at the same time everywhere: in Mayotte and Guyana, the state of emergency health had been prolonged, Martinique is confined but not Guadeloupe, which means that we must work on different health calendars. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u94	I call Mr Philippe Naillet to support Amendment No. 476.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u95	While the Overseas Mission shows an increase in the LBU of EUR 18 million compared to the initial finance law for 2020, the cross-cutting policy document shows a decrease of almost 5 million on the "Aid for Access to Housing" programme. Far from contributing to the shift from national solidarity to ultramarine nationality, this amendment aims at denouncing the continuation of an accounting mechanism showing a further increase in the budget year of the overseas mission, even though the overall budgetary effort is declining, in this case on housing. Thousands of homes in many ultramarine territories are still unsanitary, unworthy and inappropriate to the local climate. It must be noted that the majority of unhealthy housing in France is located in the overseas regions. Therefore, any reduction in the State's budgetary effort in this area, regardless of the programme or mission, does not seem relevant, even though a 2019-2022 Overseas Housing Plan is awaiting a real return to its operational phase.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u96	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u97	You have noted an increase of EUR 18 million in the LBU. It was down last year, as we denounced it. In my memory, it does not seem to me that there has never been a shortage of credits on the LBU to build overseas housing; The question was rather that, so far, we have not been able to consume them. For my part, I believe a lot in the capacity of the state and the communities to set up engineering systems – this was done very well in Mayotte and Guyana, with "dodus" means; This is done in the other departments, in particular with the assistance of the Agence française de développement. I therefore hope that we can ensure that the means used to strengthen engineering can be equally effective everywhere, or at least as effective as in Mayotte and Guyana. You are proposing an increase of 49 million euros; That's a lot. We are already benefiting from an increase of LBU 18 million. Let us already consume them in their entirety, which we have not done in recent years, and then we will notify. I therefore invite you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u98	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u99	I agree with the rapporteur that all the appropriations must already be consumed, knowing that, if it were to run out of money, I would be able to find the necessary solutions. Commitment authorizations are increasing, and it's not just a facial increase. We all know that the real issue is not necessarily money, but engineering, governance, land, the pace of deployment and the targets of projects. The money is there, we must now spend it. It is therefore also a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u100	The draftswoman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u101	[[Max Mathiasin, draftsman of the opinion, applauds]] The LBU meets an extremely important need, but it must be noted that it is not always easy to meet the criteria for spending these funds. While engineering assistance would be needed for HLM's communities and companies, what sometimes hinders them is the somewhat taunted spirit of the control services, which leads to many projects that do not meet this or that condition. Perhaps a more flexible assessment of the criteria should be made when it comes to building at the bottom of Guyana or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u102	Mrs Guion-Firmin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2179.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u103	My amendment proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to housing in the overseas countries and territories, by drawing EUR 40 million from programme 138 to direct them towards the "housing" action of programme 123. The cross-cutting policy document shows a decrease in housing appropriations, despite elements of the Overseas Mission, which indicate an increase in the LBU of EUR 18 million in commitment authorisations and a decrease of almost EUR 5 million in payment appropriations. In order not to penalize the "Business Support" programme, I ask the Government to raise the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u105	For the same reasons as before, I am requesting the withdrawal of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u107	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u108	I call Mr Philippe Naillet to support Amendment No. 2190.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u109	My amendment seeks to challenge the Government on the importance and sustainability of the Overseas Social Housing Union, the USHOM. We hope that this body will continue to carry out its tasks of general interest in favour of our territories. However, on 30 September last, the Union sociale de l'habitat expelled the USHOM from these premises, even cutting off its right of access to its e-mails, and this in total disregard of the rules of law – the judicial court of Paris, seized by way of interim order, moreover gave the USHOM a reason against the USH. The USHOM is the only federation of social donors in the Overseas Territories, including French Polynesia and New Caledonia. It controls our specificities and successfully accompanies the deployment of public housing policies in our territories. It is therefore of great help to us. We would be terribly sad if, after France Ô, after the National Commission for the Evaluation of Overseas State Policies – CNEPEOM –, after the ultramarine representation at the EESC, we were to lose the USHOM.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u111	The committee has not voted on this amendment, but I am issuing a wisdom opinion on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u112	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u113	We need USHOM to support the missions and objectives of the Overseas Housing Plan, PLOM, and the deployment of housing at the local level. However, it would be difficult for both Parliament and the Government to interfere in the disputes between these two structures, which have been brought before the courts. Consequently, I can only justify money from the state, and therefore from the taxpayer, being used to solve the structural difficulties that we know. So that's an unfavorable opinion. That being said, I confirm that USHOM is an effective structure and that we need it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u114	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u115	The overseas region, while having its peculiarities, is plural; Each ultramarine territory therefore requires double-differentiated policies. While the work of the USH cannot be called into question throughout the national territory, USHOM plays a fundamental role in understanding these specificities, and its analysis and engineering ensure the relevance of public housing policies in our territories. I fully understand that the state cannot decide to grant it €7 million, but let us not forget that the USHOM is financed through the USH from the appropriations dedicated to housing policy: it is therefore a public financing. The lack of financial independence of the USHOM vis-à-vis the USH is therefore a real problem and I suggest that everyone be brought together around the public authorities to resolve it before it leads to negative consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u116	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u117	I would like to reiterate in a few words the importance of the USHOM in assisting social housing policies overseas and to stress the fact that it has a dual singularity, in relation to the traditional profile of social housing organisations in Hexagon and the fact that the specific needs of the overseas sector require the intervention of a specific structure. However, let us listen to the minister: we cannot suddenly decide to use a method of financing, which is also different from that which makes it possible to finance the USH, to resolve an internal conflict. We must call for reason to prevent chicayas from ruining effective militant action in the social housing sector. If the amendment were retained, the La République group would vote against it, despite the interest of the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u118	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u119	The amendment, which I maintain, is not on the judicial front; It aims to recall the essential mission of general interest of the USHOM: in terms of housing, the ultramarine territories have important and specific needs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u120	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 1871.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u121	This amendment was tabled on the initiative of Josette Manin, who cannot be with us tonight. A report by the Court of Auditors submitted in September 2020 makes a rather negative analysis of the PLOM. This opinion of a state institution does not call for further comment, except that we know that the objectives have not been achieved. How can we explain that the appropriations for housing – because there are, even if they vary by a few thousand euros from year to year – are not being used? I've got my analysis, and so is Josette Manin. In most of the overseas departments and regions, and especially Guadeloupe, Martinique and Guyana, we came out of the era where 500 or 1000 housing programmes could be built – and even 2000 in the 1960s and 1970s – because the land was available and HLM could be built at larigot. Today, this is no longer possible: since urban and agricultural land has become scarce, constructions are much more often related to the old fabric and are part of urban expansion. Their cost is therefore much higher. In the 1960s, the cities of Dillon and Briand were built in Martinique; Now, we could no longer do this, and we have to settle for 40 housing programmes. Look closely at the question of cost, minister, and see if you can play on some parameters, and first on the maximum cost of construction. There is an additional cost of 15 to 20% in Guadeloupe and Martinique. In addition, you should re-read and re-read the important report on overseas habitat released a year ago by the CGEADD, the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development: it states that the rehabilitation and restoration of private heritage is underfunded and underused. To take just one example, the city centre of Fort-de-France had 12,000 inhabitants; There's only 4000 left. So we could potentially house an additional 8,000 people there! In my view, the residential offer that may result from the restoration of the old, private and rental heritage is a route that has not been sufficiently explored.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u122	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u123	For the same reasons as before, request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u124	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u125	Request for withdrawal because it is an appeal amendment. Nevertheless, it is true that treating the old is how much more delicate and expensive than treating the new – and this reality is not unique to the overseas. To have taken a close interest in the implementation of the city centre action plan in the municipality of which you were mayor, Fort-de-France, I can assure you that the renovation of the old building is one of the most important axes. The stakes are high, because there is a beautiful heritage to renovate in some neighbourhoods. So we have to do project engineering. This is more complex than at a time when large uniform programs were being launched, and not always happy from the point of view of quality of life and quality of construction, since we are currently spending a lot of money to renovate the aging social park. Old housing is therefore an objective of refocusing the single budget line. There is one point on which we must not make a mistake: these are the discussions to come with the construction sector, because the cost of construction is an important issue. There is insularity, of course, but you who have been mayor and president of the regional council, you know as well as I do that the additional cost is not just the granting of the sea: in reality, the more we put the means to help build, the more we see an inflation of the costs of construction. It is a subject to be dealt with at low noise; The money in the recovery plan should not increase prices. The subject is complex and variable depending on the territory, but I remain convinced that old land is a great challenge. If we work on the memory and history of settlements by looking at how people have arrived in cities for the reasons we know, reinvesting in old housing is also a way of celebrating a way of living and living, especially in the West Indies.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u126	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u127	Minister, this is an incentive for reflection and work, and we are prepared to do so. I therefore withdraw the amendment on behalf of Mrs Manin and hope that we can work together on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u128	Amendment No 2214 by Mrs Nadia Ramassamy is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u129	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u131	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u132	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u133	As you will have understood, the question of housing in addition to the sea poses major problems. For example, it is very difficult for some single persons, beneficiaries of the RSA or modest pensioners, to find housing in the social rental sector because the rents are too high for them. The amendment therefore aims to strengthen the resources on LLTS operations – very social rental housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u134	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u135	I gave an unfavorable opinion because the subject is a ministerial order and not a finance law. We are also working on raising the ceilings to facilitate the launch of new operations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u136	Amendment No 2213 by Mrs Nadia Ramassamy is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u137	The same is true of Amendment No 2215 by the same author. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u138	The committee has not voted on this amendment. Personally, I'm asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u139	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u140	Unfavorable opinion for the same reasons, and because we are still waiting for the results of the requested mission on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u141	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1062 and 2176. I call Mr Philippe Naillet to support Amendment No. 1062.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u142	It aims to call once again the Government on the 25 million euros of POSEI's appropriations because, as we speak, their maintenance has not been formalized. I will not go back to what I said in a general discussion about its relevance to the sectors, to our food security and to the food self-sufficiency towards which the Overseas Territories are seeking to reach today, and above all to the real risk that a reduction in appropriations would put on structured sectors which represent thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u143	I call Mr Letchimy to support Amendment No. 2176.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u144	I take up the same arguments as my colleague Naillet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u145	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u146	You are asking a legitimate question: we must defend and diversify our agricultural production and seek food sovereignty. These are appeal amendments on which the committee has not voted; For my part, I agree with this appeal and look forward to the Government's response.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u147	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u148	Let us not be defeated at once: we will not take money from the state budget to compensate for the possible decline in POSEI's appropriations at the same time as the President of the Republic redoubles his efforts to weigh in the negotiations! Discussions are not over; We have conducted them at ministerial level with Julien Denormandie, and the President of the Republic is now leading an initiative with the European institutions. So I do not cry defeat, quite the contrary; We're mobilized. In addition, Julien Denormandie and I will install tomorrow the Agricultural Transformation Committee, whose POSEI is an important part, even if it is not the only one. Request for withdrawal, as the state does not have to compensate for the money POSEI would no longer put on the table for farmers. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u149	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u150	The negotiation of the POSEI is under way, and I commend the Government for fighting for its current level to be maintained; But there are also funds from the Interdepartmental Committee on Overseas Affairs – CIOM – i.e. the envelope of national appropriations in addition to the European appropriations of the POSEI. With this amendment, our colleague Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe calls on the Government to raise the level of support for production lines. But beyond the ad hoc aid decided by the CIOM, financing by the POSEI poses a real structural problem because of the high consumption of banana and sugar credits. It can be seen as a structural aid to maintain two great speculations in the territories of Martinique, Guadeloupe or elsewhere, but it seems to me fundamental to seek maximum autonomy and even food independence – even if it is perhaps a great deal to ask for. That is why it is abnormal that we do not have a real POSEI dedicated to agricultural diversification, which can provide both structural and operational aid. It would allow us to launch a new policy of industrialization and agro-processing, including, necessarily, the natural evolution of organic farming. This is a crucial point if we want to be less dependent on massive imports: we cannot deplore the extension of this system which kills local production without devoting to the diversification of credits of the same magnitude as those of the POSEI for bananas and the sugar-rum-cane sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u151	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u152	I hear the message that the Special Rapporteur wishes to convey, and I know that he will not blame me for supporting the Government by calling on the Group of the Republic to vote against these amendments. We are in a balance of forces, and we must give the right signal to support the President of the Republic and the Government in this negotiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u153	Mrs Guion-Firmin has the floor to support Amendment No. 2178.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u154	The economic consequences of the health crisis are even more serious in the ultramarine territories, highly dependent on external trade, than in the Hexagon: the loss of activity during the first confinement has already been estimated at 30%. The partial or total cessation of activity affects territories already seriously weakened by remoteness and insularity, which limit the scope of action of enterprises and their ability to explore beyond the local market. Our companies need a financial instrument that allows them not only to recover, but also to consider changing scales to conquer new markets. I therefore propose the creation of a "post-pandemic recovery" endowment fund, credited with €20 million, which could be deployed in parallel with the territorialized plan envisaged by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u156	This amendment is very attractive. I tabled the same in the Committee on Finance, but it was rejected. Ultramarine companies should be developed and allowed to deploy to markets other than their local market, narrowed and composed of an ageing population, in particular in Guadeloupe, Martinique and, to a lesser extent, than in Réunion or other territories. Customs classifies our territories as export locations for hexagonal France. We have often devoted resources, regional or state, to supporting the exports of ultramarine companies in the regional space around them, but the standard of living is lower and the possibility of selling reduced products there. On the other hand, we have forgotten to help our companies export to Hexagon. We need to think about this, minister. I join the call made by this amendment to help ultramarine companies export – according to the customs' understanding – to Hexagon. A market of 67 million inhabitants does not exist in our latitudes, let alone the door to the European market. That is why I personally support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u158	Despite my friendship with Member Serva, I am totally opposed to this amendment for two reasons. The first, overwhelming, is that the recovery plan devotes EUR 1.5 billion to the Overseas Territories, while the amendment proposes the creation of an emergency accompanying fund of EUR 20 million. With the funds released to support the national economy, including the overseas territories, and those allocated to the recovery, we have already done much to support the ultramarine economy. The creation of a new fund would be just a display. The second reason for my opposition, Mr Serva, is the need to handle the customs concept with great care. If we started a conversation about export and import, we would quickly talk about the granting of the sea. However, we have been looking for several hours at the overseas mission's appropriations without any speakers mentioning it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u159	And for good reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u160	I'll put that there, as the other one would say. If we wanted to discuss the competitiveness and functioning of market flows, we would have to ask ourselves about the granting of the sea. Rest assured, I am not announcing a great reform – the President of the Republic has already spoken on the subject – but we trust the territories: if the economic world and the local authorities were to agree to reflect on the issue of the granting of the sea, we would be fully prepared to accompany them. I understand the reassuring idea of creating emergency funds, but the recovery plan is much more reassuring. And if we went to the end of the reflection, we would find ourselves facing other, more delicate questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u161	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u162	The Special Rapporteur presented a somewhat different amendment in committee, which I would have strongly supported in the public sitting. Mrs Guion-Firmin's proposal is certainly similar, but linking it to the crisis of the Covid-19 is open for discussion. Beyond the debate on the granting of the sea, which we might otherwise have, a line of economic exchange was drawn – a bit like in the time of triangular trade – between Hexagone, which some, in a very assimilationist way, call "metropolitan" although there are no more colonies – and the overseas territories: thus, 90% of the economic exchanges of Réunion, Martinique, Guyana and Guadeloupe take place with Hexagone. The question raised by Mrs Guion-Firmin is: Is it possible to establish viable economic exchanges between the Overseas Territories and their transboundary maritime basin – for example between Réunion and South Africa, Madagascar, Mauritius, India, etc. - Is that what you're saying? For us, this is the most important development path to explore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u163	But that is not the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u164	I'll give it to you. But since we are seeking to reduce unemployment, which is around 23% overseas, and to gain autonomy, it is a potential growth niche that should not be overlooked.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u165	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u166	I subscribe all the more to Serge Letchimy's comments, since with others I contribute to the reflection on these subjects. The prospects for regional integration and development of the overseas territories in economic terms are obviously fundamental. But, once again, this is not the subject of the amendment that we are considering, and even if I understand the reasons why this is the case, the moving Republic Group will obviously follow the Government's opinion on this vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u167	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u168	The Overseas Territories should be assisted in diversifying and exiting from the only bilateral relationship with the State. Companies need to explore the potential for development in their regional basin. There must be momentum in regional cooperation. I have discussed this with Mr Franck Riester, Deputy Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness, who has said he is ready to work with our territories. The crisis leads us to look for new room for manoeuvre: anything that can help us to cope with it, starting with the exploration of markets that we didn't naturally think of, must be encouraged. On the basis of the report on regional cooperation presented today to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Overseas Delegation could develop a mechanism to facilitate access by the Overseas Territories to national instruments such as Business France or those established by the Ministry of Foreign Trade.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u169	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2186.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u170	It is intended to draw attention to the problem of unemployment among people over the age of 50. INSEE shows that their least employability drives them to leave the labour market. At La Réunion, this population represented 7 per cent of men and 9 per cent of women in 2015, and 11 per cent of men and 10 per cent of women in 2019. It is necessary to meet these excluded and disembodied citizens, to reintegrate them into the labour market and to encourage ultramarine enterprises to respect the equality of work between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u172	How can you not be sensitive about yourself? Mass unemployment is structural in the overseas territories. But the fund you are proposing to create would be provided with credits from the 138 "Overseas Employment" program, whose commitments often consist of exemptions from the burden of small businesses, which create employment. Before the crisis of the Covid-19, this policy worked well and badly: unemployment was decreasing and more than 16,000 jobs had been created. Because the contours of the envisaged economic fund are unclear, its low allocation – EUR 1 million – and because its financing is ensured by a puncture of measures that have proved their worth, I ask you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u173	I call Mr Philippe Naillet to support Amendment No. 2191.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u174	For the past two years, parliamentarians and stakeholders have been calling for the geographical coefficient of the Réunion's health facilities to be adjusted. This request was expressed in a letter dated January 8, 2019, and was repeated in an interview with the Overseas Minister on September 16, 2019. The Reunion University Hospital, established in 2012, is the newest in France. Created in 2012, it suffers from a deficit due to the general and local context, which required a grant of EUR 14 million. Aware of the fragility of its situation, management has developed a draconian savings plan. Its implementation has been a success, but the efforts made have affected the working conditions of staff, who have never failed to do so, while the health crisis associated with the dengue virus has led to an additional 2,500 visits to emergencies in 2019 and more than 1700 since the beginning of 2020, in addition to the hundreds of hospitalizations due to the covid-19. A recent study by Ernst&amp;Young, commissioned by the Hospital Federation of France - Indian Ocean, showed that the current structural costs represented the equivalent of 4 additional points. The geographical coefficient should therefore be reassessed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u175	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u176	In the summary statement of the amendment, you recall that I wrote with MP David Lorion a report on the situation of the CHUs in Guadeloupe and Réunion, in which we called for the revalorisation of the geographical coefficient. So I can only support your request. The overseas health care system is on its knees. Of course, for the time being, it stands – except in Martinique – thanks to the measures we have taken in anticipation. But it is necessary that the problems facing him be quickly resolved. However, the proposed transfer of €15 million is not the responsibility of the Overseas Mission but of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. The committee has not considered this amendment, and I am asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u178	Same opinion. This question does not concern the budget of the Overseas Ministry, but that of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, or even the draft law on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u179	Mr. Serge Letchimy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u180	My colleague's amendment seeks to draw your attention to the state of hospitals in Martinique, Guadeloupe, Guyana, Réunion and elsewhere. Olivier Serva mentioned it, the situation is catastrophic, we can even talk about collapse. The state cannot leave the Pierre Zobda-Quitam hospital in Martinique in its present state. Similarly, the Louis Domergue Hospital in La Trinité, Martinique, must be reconstructed as a matter of urgency. The problem is that your scope of action, Minister, is too narrow: you only look at 10% of the budgets. Everything about global development policy, such as health, is beyond your control. If I have advice to give you as a parliamentarian, it is to demand an extension of your powers! I do not claim that the overseas ministry is useless, I am talking about the conditions for its effectiveness. You cannot act in a cross-sectional way if you control only a very small part of the levers. If you make a table with only the feet and not the tray, it won't stand! I therefore advise you to ask for a hand on a dozen major projects, so that the scope of your action is much wider. I now turn to the geographical coefficient, a mechanism which leads the State to provide more aid to hospitals in isolation or which have to take care of particular diseases. Over the past five to ten years, we have been calling for its increase in order to reduce the deficits resulting from the application of pricing to activity, which has transformed health into a business, which should be a public matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u181	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2196.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u182	This appeal amendment concerns the appropriations allocated for the improvement of the living conditions of the inhabitants of the overseas countries and territories. This evening's debates and clarifications lead me to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u183	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 446.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u184	Amendment of appeal and denunciation, it aims to finance the creation of an emergency fund to combat the cost of living in the overseas countries and territories. This is indeed a major problem, which is recognised by the State, since it grants a living allowance to local officials. Unfortunately, a large part of the population does not receive any assistance to compensate for the difference in standard of living compared to Hexagon. INSEE studies regularly report price differentials of up to 38% on food. On the other hand, mass unemployment and low incomes mean that poverty in ultramarine territories is twice as high as in Hexagon. Families are finding it more and more difficult to pay their bills, to care for themselves, to ensure their travel, to access culture, education and leisure... Such a situation affects fundamental rights; It is even more intolerable that it should continue in view of the serious economic damage caused by the covid-19. While the State has made efforts during the crisis, they remain very inadequate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u186	The Finance Committee rejected the amendment. However, Mr.Ratenon, you are raising a fundamental problem, that of expensive living overseas. A fact-finding mission constituted by the delegation to the overseas countries and territories addressed the subject; At the same time, an interministerial delegate for the equal opportunities of the French overseas and the visibility of the overseas countries and territories has been appointed, and other solutions are being considered. The subject is complex; It requires looking at things in the face and what you see is sometimes difficult. We look forward to the conclusions of the two co-rapporteurs of the fact-finding mission, Claire Guion-Firmin and Lénaick Adam; I suggest you wait until you know them before you look for solutions together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u187	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u188	I understand the value of the appeal amendments, which allow us to address many issues. However, our opinion is limited to the proposed legal and financial arrangements. You want to create a financial support fund to fight the cost of living, but the creation of such a fund would mechanically increase the cost of living even more! The more you increase virtual purchasing capabilities – not real purchasing power – the more prices increase. I do not see how to add public money to fight against expensive life. Important work has already been done on the subject. Let us be humble to recognize this: each legislature, each Government has tried to remedy the problem of the cost of living overseas. In 2019, following the action of several successive ministers – Mrs George Pau-Langevin could testify – concrete measures were taken, including the power of injunction granted to different authorities; first by evaluating these devices. As the Special Rapporteur has indicated, recommendations are pending. Let us not pay for words: if we look at things in the face, to repeat its expression, we will have to tackle supply and demand issues at the same time in island economies. It will have to be done without demagogy and with great courage, because the effect could be to change or even destabilize very old structures of cost construction, which are explained by various reasons that we all know. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u189	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u190	I never said that nothing had been done, on the contrary! A number of work has been done and measures have already been implemented, such as product lists in large areas. But this remains very insufficient. The cost of life remains a major topic in the overseas territories: it cannot be denied that the population, at the end of each month, has difficulty buying what it needs. Some families find it difficult to feed themselves; older people do not have enough to eat and are content on certain days with a yogurt for any meal. You can't pretend that everything's okay and that we can go on like this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u191	I never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u192	The State must assume its responsibilities. What about the economic monopolies in the overseas countries and territories? In La Réunion, large groups control everything, which weighs on both purchasing power and employment. In my view, there is work to be done on this point. The same applies to the price, margin and income observatory, which is difficult to operate, as the investigations of State services are hampered by major groups. We need to find the tools to unlock the situation. It is essential to solve the problem if we are to fight poverty in our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u193	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 2197.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u194	This is again an appeal amendment, designed to open the debate and, perhaps, to identify avenues for reflection in order to find solutions to the problem of territorial continuity. I will let the rapporteur and the minister vote, knowing that I will not withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u195	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u196	You are again addressing a fundamental problem for our territories, that of territorial continuity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u197	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u198	My answer will be valid for the other amendments referring to the subject. [[Smile]] One of the few proposals put forward by candidate Emmanuel Macron about overseas – I repeat what Mr Max Mathiasin blew me up! – is precisely about territorial continuity. The President of the Republic is therefore aware of the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u199	He is aware of this, but it does not change anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u200	Hexagonal Members must be aware of the meaning of insularity or even double insularity. Guadeloupe, for example, is an archipelago made up of Grande-Terre and Basse-Terre – two parts that do not offer the same characteristics – but also Marie-Galante, Saintes and La Désirade, the last three islands suffering from double insularity. I could say the same about Mayotte, Wallis and Futuna, Saint Peter and Miquelon, New Caledonia, etc. Overseas countries suffer from insularity and sometimes double insularity, which is often misunderstood since Hexagonus. The number of amendments addressing the subject shows that territorial continuity is a major concern. Ms. Maina Sage referred to Air Tahiti Nui, but one could also refer to Air Guadeloupe, Air Antilles, etc. In short, I ask you to pay attention to this problem – I know, to discuss it regularly with him, that this is already the case with the Overseas Minister – even though it is not easy to solve. I am confident, however, that, because of the $3 million increase in territorial continuity appropriations, and because I know, minister, that you have planned to add provisions to that effect in the future "4D" bill. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u201	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u202	I do not have much to change about the Special Rapporteur. The problem of territorial continuity refers to the division of tasks and responsibilities between the State and local and regional authorities. Saying this is not a way to kick in. The debate is not legal, but financial: do communities, which are the organizing authorities for transport – even more so for Pacific communities – have sufficient strength to offer a transport offer to ensure territorial continuity? Philippe Dunoyer, Member of Parliament for the Province of the Islands of New Caledonia, whose President Jean-Christophe Lagarde was speaking earlier, has formalized important demands on this point. We could also talk about French Polynesia, whose surface is comparable to that of Europe: the stakes of territorial continuity between the islands and the atolls are therefore central. However, in the current state of law, territorial continuity for areas undergoing double insularity is not within the competence of the State. This position has been constant for many years, from all governments; My predecessors will be able to confirm that. However, MPs, who vote the law, can also amend it; I therefore support the idea of working on the subject. Indeed, if, for example, the connection between Pointe-à-Pitre and Paris is the subject of operational arrangements, the question arises for the resident of Marie-Galante who must reach Pointe-à-Pitre International Airport. The issue, however, is not limited to parliamentarians, but must be the subject of an operational dialogue with communities, in which resources would be taken into account. In many cases, the small communities concerned have raised a tax or even introduced a transport payment. Under these conditions, they can hardly turn to the state when they fail to finance their public service – which is expensive, it is true. Indeed, the State transferred that jurisdiction a long time ago. My remarks are not aimed at provoking or opposing each other. Simply, the knot is there and we're going to have to solve the problem once and for all, otherwise, we're turning the finance bill ball into a finance bill and we're not moving forward. This also raises the question of pricing: after all, one can live in a place excentrated by choice. However, since the Member of Parliament Serva addressed his colleagues in Hexagone, I would point out that the price of transport is not the same everywhere in France: the longer the territory is rural, the longer the distances are and the fewer the travellers are – having presided over a rural department, I can testify to this. Pricing is therefore not the same. Your proposal therefore raises cross-cutting issues with regard to the organization of transport. Perhaps the mobility guidance law has been a missed opportunity in this area. I know that the initiatives that had been taken in this framework have not been successful, for reasons of big money – it's as simple as that – and of funding the service. At the end of this long reply, I express an opinion against the amendment, since you maintain it – this posture limits the discussion, Mr Ratenon. I would like to ask you this: do not imply that there would be elected representatives on the one hand who are aware of the poverty, poverty and social difficulties in the territories of the Republic, and on the other of the deputies – by any chance, those of the majority – or members of the Government who would ignore them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u203	You're looking for controversy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u204	It was you who looked for it during your speech in general discussion. I did not answer you then, but know that there is not on the one hand the good people and on the other hand the bad ones: there are simply people who are trying to find solutions that are relevant, pragmatic and adapted to the reality of the difficulties encountered by the inhabitants of the different territories. I would point out that the 2021 finance bill provides for an increase of EUR 3 million in the arrangements for territorial continuity. These devices, usually individual ones, are often highly expected. We will come back to this when we talk about funeral continuity – probably tomorrow morning and not this night – but we do not have to blush the means we put on the table. In fact, the State could have considered for a very long time that this issue was a matter for regional councils or local and regional authorities. On the contrary, it has chosen to retain this competence, for the sake of solidarity with our overseas fellow citizens. That's a good thing. Opinion against Amendment No 2197 – I will speak more quickly about those who will follow it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u205	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-04-O1059.u206	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Further examination of the overseas mission's appropriations; Review of the Immigration, Asylum and Integration Mission's appropriations. The meeting is adjourned.
