ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u1	I should like to inform the Assembly that I took note of the cessation, on 16 March 2020 at midnight, of the term of office of Member of Parliament for Olivier Véran, who was appointed a member of the Government by decree of 16 February 2020. By a communication from the Minister of the Interior dated February 19, 2020, made pursuant to sections L.O. 176 and L.O. 179 of the electoral code, I was informed that she had been replaced by Camille Galliard-Minier, who had been elected together with him for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u2	The next item is the debate on the draft amending finance law for 2020 (No. 2758, 2761). As the health crisis does not allow us to be in the hemicycle, the Conference of Presidents has laid down rules derogating from the organisation of the sittings. Firstly, the eight groups are represented, in addition to their chairman or representative, by only two Members. The votes will be by show of hands, with each chairman or his/her representative holding the votes of his/her entire group. For voting on the whole text, this principle also applies, but Members have the possibility, before explanations of vote, to inform their group, or at the service of the sitting, that they wish to vote differently. Non-attached Members also have the opportunity to communicate their voting positions on the whole text to the service of the sitting. Thus, each Member's position on the whole text will be taken into account. I would also remind you that, since the reform of our Rules of Procedure, every Member has the opportunity to present a written contribution, which will be appended to the record of the proceedings. In the general discussion, speakers will speak from their bench and not from the rostrum. I invite everyone not to put their hands on the microphone; This one will be cleaned by a bailiff after each use, but I invite each speaker to use a different microphone. Of course, the barrier measures we all know must be respected; In particular, the entrances and exits of the Chamber will have to be staggered. Thank you for your understanding and assistance, given these very exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u3	The floor is open to the Minister of Economy and Finance – who will speak on the bench, please, Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u4	[[Applause on all benches]] The world is facing the most serious health crisis it has experienced in more than a century; So here I want to start by thinking about all those who are on the front line in the face of this crisis: hospital staff, emergency workers, health workers, facilitators, all doctors, the military health service. We owe them our daily protection; We owe them life. The world is also facing an economic shock whose magnitude we must measure for our nation. It is immediate, and it affects the real economy: overnight, restaurants, bars, theatres, cinemas are forced to close. Tens of thousands of businesses, artisans, entrepreneurs, independents had to temporarily put the key under the door. We must all measure the disarray and deep concerns of these economic actors: some are, overnight, without anything. This shock is violent; Some small entrepreneurs no longer have any revenue, and the losses of some large industrial enterprises amount to 80% to 90% of their turnover. This shock, finally, is global: no country is spared. China was hit; Europe is hit in its turn; The United States will be struck. The consequences of these phenomena lead us, in this amending finance bill, to revise our growth forecast for 2020. The Minister of Action and Public Accounts and I believe that French growth will be negative in 2020: it should be less than 1% instead of the 1.3% provided for in the original Finance Act for 2020. I want to be clear to you: this estimate is provisional, and it may deteriorate in the light of the changing health situation in Europe, the necessary duration of containment measures, and the situation in the United States, the world's leading economy and one of the European Union's main trading partners. We have entered into an economic and financial war. It will be long; She'll have a cost. I want to be transparent: this cost, we cannot estimate it precisely at the moment I speak to you. This war must be waged on all fronts, national, European and international. At the national level, the amending finance bill that we are presenting to you includes a $45 billion support plan to preserve the skills of employees and the business of our companies. It comprises four emergency measures, and can naturally be strengthened in the event of a worsening or prolongation of the health crisis. The first measure is the postponement of tax and social charges from March for all businesses. This represents for public finances, for this month alone, a cost of $35 billion in cash. These carry-overs should allow the cash flow of companies to keep up with the crisis; they may lead to the cancellation of direct taxes if certain companies could not pay. For the smaller enterprises, which are the ones facing the greatest difficulties, gas and electricity bills, as well as rents, as indicated by the President of the Republic, can also be postponed. With regard to rents, we are working with public donors to postpone the deadlines of the smallest companies; and I hope that all private donors will show solidarity in the face of this economic crisis. If you can postpone the receipt of your rent, whether you are a big or a small lessor, do it! Follow the example given by the National Council of Shopping Centres, which has agreed to postpone the March rents for 38,000 businesses. The logic we are defending, together with the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, for the smallest companies, the most affected and the most threatened with disappearance in this economic crisis, is simple: zero revenue, zero expenditure. And we will only be able to respect this principle if, beyond public solidarity, beyond the solidarity of the State, beyond the solidarity of the local authorities, all the economic actors without exception participate in this movement. This solidarity also concerns the major contractors: providers and suppliers must be paid in time and time. Some companies consider themselves exempt from paying their bills due to the health crisis; This is unacceptable, and dangerous for thousands of smaller subcontractors. The deadlines for payment between companies, between customers and their subcontractors, should not increase. I have asked the Directorate General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention, the DGCCRF, to ensure that these rules are followed carefully: we will not accept anyone for themselves. The second measure is the massive introduction of partial unemployment. This is the first time in our history that such a scheme has been introduced in France: 100% of partial unemployment will be covered up to 4.5 SMIC. It is the most generous scheme in Europe. The cost will be EUR 8.5 billion for two months from March. This measure obviously responds to a political imperative: to protect the skills and know-how of employees, who are the strength of the French economy. With this mechanism, the economic crisis must not give rise to any dismissal in our territories: to dismiss today would slow down the economic recovery tomorrow. We therefore wager the maintenance of skills, qualifications and know-how. The third measure is the creation of a solidarity fund, which will support smaller, self-employed and micro-entrepreneurs with a turnover of less than EUR 1 million. These men and women are the first employers in France, and the first ones weakened by the health crisis and containment measures. They must therefore be supported: EUR 1 billion per month will be allocated to them – 750 million financed by the State, and 250 million by the regions. It goes without saying that this solidarity fund will be intended to be renewed, if necessary, month after month. I would like to welcome here the mobilising of the regions and the spirit of cooperation in which we work with all their presidents. This solidarity fund will support all businesses that have been closed due to health safety rules: 160,000 catering companies, 140,000 business enterprises, 100,000 tourism companies. It will also support all companies whose turnover will have decreased by 70% between March 2019 and March 2020. It will cover SMEs with a turnover of less than EUR 1 million, micro-entrepreneurs and self-employed persons. We have also decided to include in the scope of this fund the most modest professions, those that could be condemned by the current crisis. A physiotherapist from Mulhouse who no longer has any activity, but who has decided to make himself available free of charge to the hospital in this city to help the caregivers, must be able to benefit from the national solidarity, and from this solidarity fund. This fund will have two floors. The first is an immediate support of 1500 euros to the companies that need it; This is a lump sum benefit for all those who enter the field I have defined. The second is a protection against bankruptcy: no company should risk bankruptcy simply because of the crisis. On a case-by-case basis, the fund will therefore provide additional support to the most difficult enterprises. The fourth measure is exceptional and massive: the State will provide guarantees for all cash loans to businesses, amounting to EUR 300 billion. The aim is to protect companies from the risk of bankruptcy. This scheme is open from 16 March and will last until 31 December 2020; It concerns all companies, both small and large. It will provide state guarantees of up to 90%, and will finance up to 25% of annual turnover. If a company asks a bank for a loan in the amount of 25% of its turnover, in order to be able to continue its business, then the bank must accept. All these measures have only one objective: to maintain French economic activity in the time of the health crisis, so that once it is behind us, our economy will recover rapidly. In an economic war, losses must be limited; We do not want any economic loss because of this health crisis. These measures obviously have a cost: 300 billion guarantees provided by the State, 45 billion for the contingency plan; Therefore, the general government deficit for 2020 is expected to reach 3.9% of GDP instead of the 2.2% initially forecast. French debt will exceed 100% of GDP in 2020. You know the fight that the Minister of Action and Public Accounts and I have been leading for three years to restore public finances, but these times of crisis require clear, simple and decided political choices. Our choice is to work together to support employees and businesses, no matter what the cost, as the President of the Republic has said; We favour support for our employees and businesses over public finance balances. This political choice, temporary and dictated by exceptional circumstances, is in my view the only responsible choice in the face of the crisis that we are going through. In this regard, the European Commission has just announced that it will remove all regulatory constraints of the Stability and Growth Pact for the euro area Member States in 2020. I welcome this decision, which gives us the freedom to support our economy. On the international front, European countries and G7 members face together. Last Monday, the euro area finance ministers took the decision to coordinate a massive budget response of 1% of European GDP to support the euro area economies. The euro area countries also announced loan guarantees for a total amount of 1000 billion. Finally, I would like to welcome the programme announced yesterday by the European Central Bank for the purchase of assets. Thanks to this massive programme, the ECB will be able to buy 750 billion assets without a monthly spending ceiling. This judicious programme will help not only businesses, but also States to overcome the health crisis that we are experiencing. Behind this support from the ECB is a key issue: to avoid the fragmentation that threatens the euro area and to strengthen solidarity between the Member States. I am also pleased to note that, since that announcement, the spread of rates between the sovereign debts of the euro area Member States has narrowed. Let us not be mistaken, it is the unity of the euro area that is at stake in the coming days and weeks: either the euro area reacts in a united way to the economic crisis, and it will emerge stronger ; or it reacts in dispersed order, and it will disappear. Behind any economic crisis is a political crisis. It is up to us to prevent, combat and overcome this political crisis. Our responsibility goes beyond economic and financial matters alone. It is about the political future of our continent. That is why we will continue to fight in the coming days to propose common solutions. The 19 countries of the euro area and the 27 Member States of the European Union must fight together. Beyond the crisis itself, we must reflect on its consequences. From an economic and financial point of view, there will be a "before" and a "after" the health crisis of the coronavirus. This Friday, at the meeting of the Competitiveness Council, we will focus on strengthening European industrial sovereignty, because the current crisis is a cruel example of our weaknesses and dependencies in many strategic industrial sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u5	We need to re-create the Office of the Commissioner General on the plan!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u6	In the drug, for example, we are too dependent on supplies from Asia. We need to look at this unacceptable situation, industrial sector by industrial sector, technology by technology, and provide long-term answers. We need to rethink globalization with respect to sovereignty. Finally, I would like to recall the two principles that guide us in this economic and financial war. The first principle is to preserve the skills of employees and protect our economic and technological heritage. No company should put the key under the door; no large company, no industrial flagship should be destabilized by the current market situation. Some large industrial companies have lost a lot of value in recent days. We have at our disposal instruments to support them: we can take stakes, recapitalize and, if necessary, nationalize.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u7	Temporarily, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u8	We stand ready to use all these instruments, without exception. The second principle is to ensure the continuity of the economic life of the nation. The President of the Republic asked all our compatriots to stay home to protect themselves and their loved ones, but he also said and recalled this morning that exits were possible to reach his workplace. I want to say how much I understand the concerns of employees and how many questions have multiplied in recent hours. In these exceptional circumstances, I say it with great sincerity, there is no easy or obvious decision, there is no certainty. Nevertheless, there are two compasses: act in his soul and conscience; acting on behalf of the best interests of the French nation. This has led us to ask a number of employees to join their workplaces and all employees who can use telework. I invite all employers and entrepreneurs to take the necessary time to discuss with their employees, in factories, depots or large areas, the arrangements for the organization of work, in order to guarantee the health security and inner serenity of every employee, every employee, every worker. Social dialogue in the company has never been so necessary, so important to clarify working conditions, to space workplaces or to equip them with appropriate means of protection. Trade unions and employers' organisations are working on a good practice guide. I welcome this initiative, which fully responds to the challenges of the moment. I am sending a second message, just as simple, to all those who work: we need you. We need your daily commitment, to ensure the economic security of our country, to ensure, quite simply, that the millions of French people continue to access drinking water, to enlighten themselves, to feed themselves and to obtain supplies in the best possible conditions. Here, in front of the representatives of the French people and with them, I would like to convey all my gratitude and appreciation to the postal workers, who continue to deliver parcels or meal trays to isolated people. No one else can do it for them. I want to send my full appreciation and consideration to the telecom agents, who strengthen the lines so that everyone has access to the Internet at home. I would like to extend my full appreciation and consideration to the RATP and SNCF drivers. I would like to convey, on your behalf, my full appreciation and consideration to the cleaners and the employees of the waste plant, who are responsible for the daily treatment of our waste; farmers, who continue to produce; carriers, who travel our routes, to ensure the continuity of the supply chain; workers in the agri-food industry, who guarantee our independence and food security; cashiers and cashiers on large surfaces, maintenance agents and castors; the employees of the banks, who welcome at their counter all those who need cash. [[Applause on all benches]] To all those workers who ensure the continuity of our nation's economic life, I simply want to say thank you. You are the face of this France that remains strong in adversity, which does not give up. Ladies and gentlemen, do not applaud me, applaud them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u9	That's what we're doing, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u10	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u11	For the past week, the Government has been making every effort to protect the French from the crisis, first health and then economic, which France is facing under very special conditions. It is at least original to present, a few weeks after the adoption of the finance law of the year, a bill on amending finance. However, it reflects the commitments of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister: the aim is to deploy all the means necessary to preserve the economic environment and the income of households, especially of employees. It is the second pillar of the 45 billion massive business and employee support plan, which the Government has developed to support economic activity at all costs, as mentioned by the Minister of Economy and Finance. As early as last week, before we even presented these legislation to you, we took extremely strong steps by issuing specific instructions to Bercy's departments, including the Directorate-General for Public Finance and the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties, and to the social security and family benefits collection unions. [[Applause on all benches]] I would also like to thank all the public finance, customs and USSRAF officers here for the daily work they provide to pay civil servants' salaries and pensions, collect expenses, answer questions from companies and control goods. They do so with the sense of public service that characterizes them, under conditions just as difficult as the other French. I would be grateful if you would give them special encouragement whenever you could. Since Monday, companies have been able to stop paying their tax and social levies scheduled for March. The Directorate-General for Public Finance agreed with 92% of the companies that applied for the measure. As I speak to you, the amount of the carry-over of social security contributions is $3 billion, for all those who were required to pay their dues between March 15 and March 19, even if they had already paid part of it. For all the independents, I would remind you that the deadline of 20 March will be postponed, without any particular steps to be taken. These unprecedented cash deferral measures represent direct and immediate support to businesses of more than $35 billion – $13 billion in direct taxes and $22 billion in social contributions. Through this bill on amending finance, the Government is continuing its mobilization, through two main measures. The first, which is the subject of Article 4, is an exceptional guarantee granted by the State, amounting to 300 billion, to support the financing of enterprises. By adopting this text, you will allow the State to guarantee the financing of the economy: no loans will be refused for economic reasons or for the solvency of the banks. The State is thus once again indispensable; It is present where it must be and when France needs it. Nevertheless, I say this to the representatives of the nation following the Minister of Economy and Finance, it goes without saying that private actors, particularly insurance and, above all, banks, must also be so: we call on them to finance the cash flow of companies. It should be recalled that the State cannot do everything – this very important idea is shared, I am sure, on all the benches of the House. This temporary arrangement will cover only loans granted between 1 March and 31 December 2020 to respond to the coronavirus crisis. It will enable banks to help businesses, whatever their size, across the country, including, of course, in ultramarine communities. In accordance with European state aid rules, risk sharing will be ensured with banks: this guarantee will be invoiced to them, as provided for in Article 4. This bill provides, second, for additional budgetary resources to finance exceptional arrangements, first of all for the full management of the partial activity. We learned from the crisis of 2008 and 2009. Based on the German model, France will allow companies that will resort to partial unemployment to receive 100% reimbursement for their paid employees up to 4.5 SMIC. As is currently the case, the employee will continue to receive 70 per cent of his gross salary, or 84 per cent of his net salary, and this proportion will reach 100 per cent if he is paid to the SMIC. The scheme will be extended to nursery assistants and home workers, who were not intended to benefit from it. This provision for partial unemployment will represent an expenditure of 8 billion per month, financed for one third by Unédic and for two thirds by the State. We have chosen this distribution, because the state benefits, as you know, from the most interesting financing conditions. In addition, in response to the concerns of small entrepreneurs, artisans and traders who would suffer a decrease in their turnover due to restrictions on movement, the Government intends to create – as the Minister of Economy and Finance mentioned – a solidarity fund of 1 billion, including 750 million budget appropriations made available by this amending finance bill and 250 million by the regions. Within this framework, the Directorate-General for Public Finance will be responsible for paying directly to the entrepreneurs concerned, automatically and without criteria, at the end of the month – as many questions relate to this point – an aid of 1500 euros. This simple and unitary emergency aid will provide a safety net for small, self-employed and self-entrepreneurs affected by the health crisis. Of course, it will be complementary to the carry-over of charges or taxes from which they could benefit. It is a matter of avoiding bankruptcies. In addition, an additional provision of $2 billion in health expenditures is also included in this amending finance bill to cover the purchase of equipment for health professionals, including masks. To cover the daily allowances and to mark our recognition of the commitment of hospital staff, we have made provision to fund each additional hour insured within the hospital. We will discuss in the coming days, with the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the desired upgrading for hospital staff, which is quite normal in view of the difficult conditions in which he works. These recovery efforts are consistent with the initiatives of the euro area since, as we have said, our growth should be negative. It is on the basis of the rules and forecasts of the European Union that we have calibrated this budget. The growth forecast would therefore be negative, at minus 1%, against 1.3% in the finance law you passed a few weeks ago. It should initially deprive the State of more than 10 billion in revenue, while the additional expenditure would amount to 6 billion. Similarly, business support measures amount to 6.25 billion. As a result, the government's budgetary balance, which will bear the bulk of the debt since it will be able to borrow at the best rate on the financial markets, will be revised downwards by about $15 billion compared to the original finance law. We have also drawn the consequences of the renunciation of the divestment of state interests, which is the equivalent of 2.7 billion less in the original finance law. I am thinking in particular of Aéroports de Paris, about which the Minister of Economy spoke a few days ago in the media. These forecasts, by nature, are unstable. We will come back to the committees concerned and the chambers whenever parliamentarians wish, but also to make changes following the arrival of new information. When the house burns, you don't count the liters of water to extinguish the fire. The situation is exceptional and I can assure, as the Minister of the Economy has done, in response to certain demands related to our debt, that France's signature remains stable and that interest rates do not attack us today. It is important to attest to the seriousness of public finances and the confidence that financial markets give us. They are much more concerned about the health crisis or the stock market crisis than about the state's public finances. On this point, everyone must be able to respond to the demand for national solidarity. Those who can afford it must continue to pay wages and benefits. The Minister of Economy and Finance has been clear. Those who have hired home helpers must continue to pay them rather than put them into partial unemployment if their cash flow is sufficient. It would be an important sign for the nation that must remain strong to support those who need it most. We call for national solidarity because the State cannot disburse instead of those who have sufficient cash. Many ask us whether the payment of VAT will be deferred, or even the payment of income tax revenue, which is now collected by businesses as a result of the withholding of tax at source. The collection of tax at source allows many self-employed or other professionals whose wages will fall, to modulate their payments from now on, and even to postpone them. We have set a time limit of three months, which can be extended if necessary. It is also possible for them to modulate their sampling rate at source immediately. This will enable many people to overcome the difficulties associated with the economic crisis, the loss of wages as a result of partial unemployment, loss of premiums or overtime. Secondly, I would like to be as clear as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. It is not possible to postpone the payment of VAT because VAT goes hand in hand with turnover. A company that does not make a turnover does not pay VAT. It is therefore not necessary to defer payment. We have postponed the payment of charges which we might call fixed, in particular social security charges. This deferral does not concern VAT, which enters the State funds and allows it to finance the public hospital, the public services, while guaranteeing the creditors of its ability to borrow because of the existence of revenue. It's important. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] If companies have VAT claims, we will pay them back much faster than expected. If the consumer has not formally purchased his property by paying VAT, we will not count the payment of this VAT but will have to explain it to the tax centre, of course. On the other hand, if this VAT is paid, it is normal to pay it to the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u12	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u13	We are about to examine and, I hope, vote on the Financial Amendment Bill for 2020, but first of all I would like to remind you that our priority must always be to win this war against the coronavirus, which threatens to decimate part of our population. The Government will wage this war against the virus and the resulting economic crisis with the unprecedented means that the two Houses of Parliament will allow it to deploy. As extraordinary as the conditions for the examination of the two texts before us are, it is essential that the heart of our democracy should not cease to beat. We must welcome the consensus that has emerged between all political parties. The Finance Committee is a fine illustration of this. This amending finance bill for 2020 provides for the Government to be entrusted with weapons of mass protection in favour of the cash flow of our businesses and the jobs that depend on them. I would like to stress this because a number of amendments will be involved. The challenge is to safeguard the cash flow of companies, which is their oxygen. Without cash, businesses cannot survive. A scheme will guarantee bank loans, contracted by companies, up to 300 billion outstanding loans. The operator Bpifrance will apply it in order to avoid the risk of bankruptcy for many companies. The planned partial activity scheme will be the most protective in Europe. The additional resources will cover the increase in the number of recourses to the scheme as well as the best repayment conditions offered by the public authorities to employers. The total cost of these measures for 2020 is estimated at 8.2 billion, of which 5.5 billion are borne by the State and 2.7 billion by Unédic. It should be noted that the volume of hours compensated corresponds to approximately 15% of the hours worked for a period of two months. This is how the encryption was done. A $1 billion solidarity fund will also be created to save our small business fabric. Companies with a turnover of less than 1 million and a 70% drop in revenues between March 2019 and March 2020 will be eligible. This allowance of EUR 1500 will be beneficial for many small structures and the regions will contribute to the financing of this measure to the tune of 250 million. We also call on large companies to contribute to this effort. These measures will be carried out by two programmes brought together as part of a new budget mission, "Emergency plan for the health crisis". This will enable Parliament to monitor precisely the budgetary response to the economic crisis. I will not take up the elements of this amending finance bill, which has already been introduced by the minister. Of course, carry-overs of tax and social charges are a major issue in corporate cash flow. It should be remembered that this text, in accordance with the Organic Law, contains an introductory article which will trace the state of the forecasts of the structural balance and of the actual balance of the general government as a whole, as well as an article of equilibrium which will present the general data of the budgetary balance and set the ceilings of expenditure. That's his role. Within the framework of this collective budget, it will update the financing table, taking into account the new need for refinancing of the State, which will now amount to 245.6 billion. As Ministers have said, the general government deficit for 2020 is now estimated at 3.9% of GDP, a logical deterioration of 1.7 percentage points of GDP. It should be noted that the cyclical deterioration is major, at 1.4%. On the other hand, the general government structural deficit remains unchanged, at 2.2 points of GDP. These first estimates should be taken with caution, but they have the merit of appreciating the current shock by honestly considering its measurable extent at this stage while in the context of exceptional circumstances, the effects of which are not all known. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, we welcome the very important announcement by the European Union concerning the flexibility of the Stability Pact and that of the European Central Bank concerning the acquisition of 750 billion state and corporate bonds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u14	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u15	The situation we are experiencing is unprecedented and dangerous. It is, of course, health-related, which leads me to pay tribute, in my turn, to those who are on the front line, in hospitals and elsewhere. It is also economic. Everyone has become aware of this, starting with the Government. This is not the first crisis we are experiencing, but the crisis of 2008 was of a different nature: it was that of the financial and economic system. Today, the crisis is first of all health, although it has become economic and has grown considerably, equivalent to that of 2008. It is essential to protect and save our businesses. The tools we used in 2008 are not all transferable because the crisis is not the same. However, the fundamentals remain the same: companies will be hit and we will have to find solutions. These may take the form of guarantees. Governments must intervene when there is no alternative. That is the case today. We must mobilize all available resources, bring as much liquidity as possible. I welcome the ECB's decision this morning to launch a rescue plan of 750 billion. The sum is considerable. We in Parliament, together with the Government, must lead a vigorous plan to protect and avoid failures. It will probably be followed by a recovery plan, because, after this crisis, the economy will have to be revived. We need to get out of this House, ministers, with more certainty and answers than when we come to it, particularly with regard to measures. You introduced them. Are they the right ones? I believe that, but we will have to obtain full certainty about both the cash flow measures and the solidarity fund and the guarantee measures. I am also thinking of protecting our strategic interests. The Minister of the Economy recalled its essential character. The same applies to measures concerning partial unemployment. We need to see it clearly, get out of here with addresses, know who taxpayers or business leaders can talk to, how, under what conditions? What will be the response time for the administration? How will files be processed and filtered? We need to know who will be eligible for these measures. Some companies will, others will not. We will have to check which economic actors will be eligible for each of these schemes and their exact scope of application. These measures must be reversible because the crisis itself will be. After the monetary mobilization, let's say a word from the budget mobilization to share my transient bad mood. Unfortunately, our room for manoeuvre is smaller than it should be. For years, we could have tried to reconstruct them, but we have done nothing, which I regret. Having said that, I remain positive, as do my colleagues, and I too have a kind look at the text. The Republicans will present less than ten precise amendments to complete your measures. Thus, the Solidarity Fund should intervene specifically for affected departments well ahead of others. Without knowing how, this virus fell on them and the activity stopped brutally. I am thinking of the Oise, but also of the Rhine, the Morbihan, some departments still. Interest on loans and the cost of guarantees should be zero. A monitoring and follow-up committee should be set up, insurers should mobilize. Work should be encouraged and encouraged. We must continue to produce, but many employees no longer go to companies. We see that today, while we must obviously continue to produce, many people no longer go to their businesses. For many reasons – not everyone can telework, we must keep their children – confinement is difficult to reconcile with work. How can we encourage people to work? Finally, the impact of the situation on public finances is likely to be greater than is currently estimated, as you said, Minister. If I hope that this will not be the case, I have the feeling that the forecasts of this amending finance bill are still a little too optimistic. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This text, which will be amended, I hope, if you deem it appropriate, is likely to meet the challenge posed today to the entire French economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u16	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u17	Before dealing with this amending finance bill, I wanted to thank from the bottom of my heart the healthcare staff of our country, mobilized 24 hours a day to take care of many patients and save lives. Who could have imagined that after the yellow vest demonstrations, after the protests about pension reform, a major health crisis would upset the foundations of the world economy? This health crisis has reached such a level that it gradually turns into an economic crisis. Although its gravity recalls that of 2008, this crisis is by nature very different, since it strikes the real economy in the first place, then contaminates the financial system. In this unprecedented context, almost apocalyptic, the urgency is to the health response, but also economic, hence this bill of amending finance, which provides for major measures to support businesses. Firstly, it introduces a 300 billion State guarantee scheme aimed at maintaining access to credit for companies, in order to accompany them in the face of the shock they are experiencing. The stakes are great: to safeguard the largest number of them, to preserve the rebound capabilities of the entire French economy. Secondly, the emergency plan for the Government's planned health crisis will be worth 6.2 billion. It aims, on the one hand, to relieve enterprises by taking over by the State of compensation for the wages of partially unemployed workers, up to 70% of gross income, up to a ceiling of SMIC 4.5; On the other hand, 750 million credits will be allocated to support the economy, by providing financial assistance to very small enterprises, self-employed workers and traders who are in a critical situation, due to the sharp decline or even the total absence of activity. The Government's strategy therefore aims to stabilize our economy in order to launch a stimulus phase, thanks to a large-scale stimulus plan. This major crisis must remind us of the importance of reducing the debt burden of the State in a period of sluggishness, in order to benefit from room for manoeuvre in such circumstances. While the control of public spending and debt reduction are two of the priorities of the IDU Group, Acting and Independent, the urgency of the situation requires that it be sprained today, while remaining vigilant for the future. The Government's plan, if it is strong, will not keep its promises unless it is accompanied by a genuine European battle plan, because it is the whole of Europe that is contaminated. It is therefore essential that concerted and coordinated measures be taken at European level, in order to deploy an increased resilience capacity in order to relaunch an economic mechanism almost at a standstill for an indefinite period. We already welcome the announcement by the European Central Bank of the purchase of 750 billion state debt securities. Exceptional crisis, exceptional response. The Government is fully aware of this, and the proposed measures are commensurate with the challenge. However, it is absolutely essential that the arrangements adopted are clear, flexible and easy to access for both businesses and employees. The educational role of the Government is crucial, so that it can have all its effects, in a time when disorganization can unfortunately be felt. Of course, we know that it will be difficult to legislate at the speed of the virus, and it is almost certain that we will have to take further measures to support our economy within a few weeks. For this reason, we could consider increasing the resources already allocated, in order to avoid relegating if the situation worsens. That is the meaning of some of our amendments. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-Agir group]] It is our responsibility to provide an immediate response to this health and economic crisis. This PLFR is an example of this. That is why the IDU, Action and Independent Group will vote fully in favour of this text, in order to give immediate means to the Government to protect the Nation and its future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u18	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u19	Everything in recent days has an exceptional character: from the country, partly to the arrest, to the population, largely confined, until this assembly, which resumes its work under unprecedented conditions, with twenty-five deputies. All of this must of course be seen in the light of the health crisis we are going through. We will have the opportunity to revisit the government's management of this crisis, and we hope that Parliament's role in monitoring the Government's action will be fully fulfilled. Our assembly will also need to put in place strengthened monitoring tools for emergency legislation that we are debating today and tomorrow. The next item is the budgetary response to the health and social crisis. It is important that this response be massive and rapid. Yes, as we are saying, this amending budget is indispensable. As you know, we pay particular attention to the major macroeconomic and budgetary balances; We look forward to the public finance programming bill promised for the month of April. The extraordinary nature of the current situation requires solutions that are equally so. However, I note that it is likely that the economic forecasts on which this budget is based will need to be reviewed in the coming months. Indeed, the assumption of a one-month containment period and then an immediate recovery is too optimistic. The recession is expected to exceed at least 1 per cent of expected GDP, and tax and especially social revenues are expected to contract even further. It was a pity that the Government had not tabled a bill to amend social security funding at the same time, in order to provide an additional $2 billion for hospitals and $2.75 billion for Unédic. In other words, we will probably have to adapt the accompaniment of the public authorities in the coming months, through a second act of amending finance, passed before the summer, and then a law of finance, at the end of the year. But right now, we have to deal with the emergency. This text contains some of the mechanisms that should allow our companies to go through the storm, as we have many concerns and difficulties in many, if not all, sectors of activity. A considerable number of company failures are to be feared in the coming weeks and months, in particular of TPEs and SMEs which make up the economic and social fabric of the territories. In the absence of an impact assessment and given the circumstances, we are not in a position to fully assess the effects of the devices you propose. The strengthening of the mechanism of partial unemployment, first of all, is the preferred tool in cases of abrupt cessation of activity; the effort made is of great magnitude. I welcome the planned relaxations. In some sectors, however, activity is continuing, without the implementation of measures to combat the spread of the virus. The construction sector, for example, has called for the temporary shutdown of construction sites, and is confronted with the position of the regional business, competition, consumption, labour and employment directorates – DIRECCTE. The benefit of partial unemployment for the companies concerned could thus be called into question. There is a gap between speeches and the field. Madame Pannier-Runacher said this morning that it was simple as a phone call. In fact, it's more complicated. It seems that there are other holes in the racket, for liberal professions, social agents, and co-workers, among others. I turn now to the solidarity fund for businesses following the health crisis created by this text, to which the State contributes 750 million, plus 250 million from the regions. The payment of this aid is subject to the loss of 70 % of turnover. Why such a number? According to the rapporteur-general, the condition of payment should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. In its analysis of Program 357, it is indicated that this fund targets independent TPEs in sectors that will be particularly affected. How will this fund be managed, and will it be sufficient? Why didn't you plan to give these credits an evaluation character? Similarly, while you have announced carry-overs of social and tax charges, as well as the payment of commercial rents or energy bills, to the tune of 35 billion – a considerable effort – some believe that these cash flows will not be sufficient to enable businesses to avoid default. Is it not better to consider total or partial exemptions for some of them? Is this scenario under consideration? What about the delays in the payment of VAT due at the end of the month? I come to the last major provision of the text, the state guarantee for companies with banks, up to a limit of 300 billion. Targeting SMEs and mid-sized enterprises - ETIs, it is subject to several conditions on the bank side; They must, in particular, introduce amortisation delays. This is in addition to the €750 billion emergency plan announced yesterday by the ECB, of which about the fifth could concern French companies. My question is simple: how can we ensure that businesses, especially smaller ones, who need it the most, get access to it quickly and at the right level, while preventing others from benefiting from the effects of a bounty? This has been said: after the time of emergency will come the time of recovery. On 12 March, referring to decisions of rupture, the President of the Republic stated that "we will have to learn the lessons of the moment we are going through tomorrow, to question the model of development in which our world has been engaged for decades and which reveals its flaws in the open". Let us work today to make this inflection of our economy emerge, bearing in mind another urgency, climate and environmental, and an imperative, that of involving the territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In conclusion, our group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u20	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u21	We started working on the final version of the text last night at 8.15 p.m., when the amendments were to be tabled by 9.30 p.m. this morning, which we respected. In these circumstances, I shall start by regretting, regretting and denouncing the fact that our amendments to make automatic testing out of the question and out of the question, even though they were discussed in committee, and that the amendments to freeze private water and gas expenditure, as well as our proposal to ban companies from accessing State aid if they have made redundancies, have suffered the same fate. In small as in big things, it is largely time to change pace and way of doing things. What we are facing is a global disease of human civilization, an ecosystem disease. When humans decide that biodiversity has no place, the exclusion of pangolins and bats in turn causes a shock called "coronavirus". It is therefore an ecological crisis, linked to the disease of the economic and social system in which we live. The predilection for the whole market and the invisible hand, the rejection of the state and public services are all dangerous views, to the point of becoming deadly. Under these conditions, the human factor is first. Securing the social conditions of the people, especially those of production, is the first of our tasks. Throughout the crisis, where it is necessary to continue the work, the Members of the House of Commons of France wish the employees to meet to deliberate on the conditions under which they continue production and exchange, and to allow the health conditions to be met. Securing is to interrupt the counting, for the calculation of social rights; secure household resources and expenditure; to guarantee the resources of the State and public resources. How can you understand that you refuse the restoration of the solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – and the removal of tax niches that allow so many resources to escape, in the refusal of the common good? Our amendments aim to provide the means that the World Health Organization demands for all countries, i.e. systematic screening and billions of masks, necessary for the continuation of everyday life; to guarantee wages; to take urgent precautions for the most precarious, the crafts, the intermittents and all those who do not know what will be done tomorrow, if the little they have been called into question; to secure the compensation of unemployment. In short, they aim to fight social anguish as valiantly as disease. If economic logic is needed, you can see that it is not supply that creates demand, but rather demand that creates reasonable supply. The ECB continues its routine policy of offering to redeem debts held by private banks in order to revive the borrowing capacity of these banks, where Member States should benefit directly from the new means granted by the ECB. Let us compare what is done in Europe, when our economic power is so great, with the United States, where we propose to pay up to $1,000 per person. Minister, you mentioned the coming of a world after. But it would be better if this world did not wait for and begin today: from now on, priority should be given to the human being and to this sovereignty which you discover is not chauvinism but common sense, consisting in relocating and planning means used to serve human beings. Sovereignty is both an ecological and a social policy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now that we have to raise the new one and we will do so in the crisis because the minds are more open and better prepared; They have understood that we are running into disaster if we continue to follow the rules that have governed us so far. That's our contribution. We will probably vote on your text as it is, not because we think it is enough, but because we do not want to block anything. We adjure you not to take advantage of the circumstances and not to imagine that we would acquiesce in everything without discussion. In particular, we need workers to be able to consult at their workplace and decide. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. - Mr. Stéphane Peu applause as well.]] We need Parliament, without interruption, to be able to monitor the Government's actions, give its opinion to the Government and send it its suggestions. Democracy cannot have passed overboard. It is our main intellectual, moral and, I dare say, spiritual resource.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u22	On the last point of your speech, that is why we are sitting today. Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u23	In our turn, we would like to pay tribute to all the employees who are now on the front line on the front line. Containment is a fair measure, but one that should be strengthened. We think in particular of employees who are obliged to go to work when the activity they perform is not indispensable. At this very moment there are angry workers who come together to discuss because they are forced to produce, in Saint-Nazaire, ships, in Valenciennes, RERs, in the Great East, mirrors when none of these productions are indispensable to our country. In the construction sector, the same concern is expressed: employees ask to exercise their right of withdrawal and to be able to stay at home. They must be given the opportunity to do so. It is also an emergency measure for public health. We will support the amending finance bill because the measures it contains are in the right direction. However, it is still far from sufficient to meet the expectations of the economic world and the employees. It mainly concerns the first, for the second, the bill under consideration tomorrow provides for several measures. All employees should receive the same treatment, i.e. receive 100% of their wages when they are forced to stay at home. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Differences in treatment are significant between civil servants who are insured to receive their full salary, employees who keep their children who are covered by sickness insurance and those who benefit from partial unemployment. These inequalities are unfair. To allow all French people to receive 100% of their wages and salaries is also to guarantee the purchasing power of hundreds of thousands of men and women who will certainly resume to consume as soon as the crisis is over. We will need it to revive our country's economy. The total operating loss for businesses – TPE, SMEs, businesses – should be better taken into account. Thus, tax and social expenditure should not only be deferred but should be cancelled. We would like to draw your attention to associations – cultural, social economy and solidarity – which all suffer in the same way as companies. Mr. Darmanin announced that associations could resort to partial unemployment. But what about social security contributions and their expenditure? Will associations be able to benefit from the same provisions as companies? I am thinking, in particular, of home help associations whose employees are on the front line today. The difficulties they were already experiencing are likely to worsen even further. We also propose to shift by one or two months the maturities of loans that companies have contracted to finance their equipment or premises. You say that banks will have to play their full part through the guarantee of 300 billion in state loans. We fear that they will not assume this role. This is evidenced by the fact that the Autorité des marchés financiers had to ban short selling, a speculative tool used by traders to take advantage of the crisis we are experiencing. Banks will have to be forced to play their role as lenders to companies that will need them. We will propose measures to this end. With regard to the European Central Bank, which once again buys back debts, it would be time for it to inject cash directly from states, businesses and households so that fresh money would irrigate the economy. At a minimum, the ECB could lend to the Member States at zero rates. Through your bill, it's actually $6.25 billion that's spent by the state. That amount is too small. Let us hope that this is just the beginning, since obviously we will have to go further. Minister, you're saying that $2 billion will be released for hospitals. But where is that money? How will hospitals benefit from this? They incur expenses without knowing how far they can go. The President of the Republic has said "no matter what it costs", everyone repeats this formula, without knowing exactly what it means. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Finally, national solidarity is important – it is the public expenditure incurred by the state to deal with the crisis, but we would like to see the solidarity of the whole society – insurances, big fortunes, the most affluent households – everyone has to put to the pot.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u24	[[Mr Sylvain Waserman replaces Mr Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u25	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u26	To the greeting addressed to all the staff involved, in particular the health professionals, I would like to add thanks to the staff of the National Assembly, which now allows us to sit in good conditions. (Applause from all benches.) As we have all said, we are faced with an unprecedented crisis and we are therefore in a situation which is equally so. We are asked to agree, within a few hours, on how to put an entire country under infusion. The work is, to say the least, acrobatic, and I would like to congratulate the Government on its ability to maintain some balance in this delicate exercise. Our mission is no less than to achieve together to lay the foundations of public salvation in the very short term by saving lives but also the economy. In the face of the demand shock caused by the fall in consumption and the supply shock caused by the supply disruptions, the risk is very clear: the decline, if not the collapse of the turnover of our companies, threatens to cause a wave, if not a tide, of bankruptcies. In order to avoid this, the solution is clear: we must both urge banks to continue lending by guaranteeing the bulk of the credit, and also reduce the taxation of all companies by postponing taxes or by taking on a massive burden of partial unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not fall into the trap of wasting time asking ourselves whether this is too much or not enough. It is impossible today to fix definitively in this text the cost of the crisis, simply because no one at this time knows its magnitude or duration. "The forecasts are difficult especially when they concern the future," said Pierre Dac. With this amending finance bill, we are therefore making the most of our time, guaranteeing all the loans made to businesses by credit institutions for a total outstanding amount of 300 billion; by making this guarantee automatic for most of our businesses – I think, in particular, the smallest of them –; opening up to the benefit of the sectors most affected by the crisis – tourism, hotels, catering, culture – a solidarity fund with 1 billion euros, taking care of the partial unemployment of employees at a level which, as the Minister reminded us, we do not have to blush in Europe. This is in addition to 35 billion cash-flow measures, as Mr Darmanin said, in the form of suspension of taxes and social contributions, and who knows, perhaps even later, of cancellation. The urgency is, in fact, to allow our companies to build up not a war treasure but a cash of resistance. Indeed, there can only be a question of resistance. We are still unaware of the extent and duration of the unprecedented economic crisis we are experiencing. In the coming days, in the coming weeks or even in the next few hours, we will continue to bring to the attention of the Government all the problems that arise in different places, sectors and types of enterprises. But pretending that we can solve them all at once would, you know, be perfectly illusory. The EUR 45 billion brought today is, I say, a first response to the emergency, but certainly not the last one. As the crisis becomes clearer, we will also clarify our efforts. The urgency is to avoid the suffocation of our economy, but this does not mean that we will not then have to heal our wounds, which, more specific than they are, will nevertheless remain very dangerous. Saving lives like saving the economy is a very short-term issue. But, as others have said before me on other benches, this must not prevent us from thinking in the longer term and from reasoning in structural terms, not just in the short term. Thus, in order to give the Government maximum agility and to ensure that the legislator has a refined control over the financial consequences of crisis management, the choice has been to create two new programmes within a mission, which will become the two main tools of crisis management. Indeed, this text should not open a debate. No one to my knowledge questions the merits of the measures involved. Rather than opening the debate, we must start the fight – it may take more than two months, it may cost more than $45 billion, but it will force us, in any case, to remain mobilized. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] As the President of the Republic said, we are at war. This war is a war of trenches for our health system and for the population, today condemned to confinement, but this war must be a war of movement for our businesses and our economy, because, for them, confinement would mean sudden death.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u27	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u28	As a result of the Covid-19 epidemic, our country is experiencing an unprecedented health crisis that paralyses it. The emergency is obviously health when so many lives are at stake. I also want to acknowledge the exemplary work and dedication of all caregivers. But the urgency is also economic, as the recession is now looming and so many companies are now threatened with bankruptcy. We assure the French of our will to work collectively, united, to combat this epidemic and its consequences, especially economic for our compatriots. The Republicans Group will take its full part in voting on this draft law on amending finance and these arrangements, the aim of which is to commit new means to limit the consequences of a certain future crisis, means which the Government will have to specify the details of the national representation. At this time of crisis, however, I cannot help but regret that we have not been able to take advantage of more favourable times to desend our economy, to shelter it, and to strengthen it to make it capable of resisting a crisis of which no country is ever exempt. According to the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance, the bill is based on assumptions more than uncertain: a confinement whose duration would not exceed a month and a rapid return to a normal situation with regard to French demand. But there is no guarantee that any of these assumptions will come true in the near future. If, as is likely, containment continues, there is clearly a need for further strengthening of the State's resources. I have heard your comments, ministers, on the possibility that we will be back in a month to discuss further support measures. Let us now go to companies, therefore to our employees; I am thinking in particular of restaurants and cafes, whose activity had to stop abruptly on Saturday, March 14th at night. I am thinking of the entertainment, culture and tourism sectors, particularly the ski resorts, which are particularly affected. I am thinking of the companies affected by the labour shortage, those whose activity has been declared not indispensable in these times of crisis: the businesses of appliances, clothing, toys, maintenance of parks and gardens, and many others, who will suffer the first of this exceptional situation. The spread of tax and social claims, the creation of a solidarity fund for the TPEs, the compensation for partial unemployment, the 300 billion State guarantee for loans to enterprises, the mobilisation of Bpifrance are all necessary measures that I welcome. I also welcome the 2 billion budget allocated to health expenditure for the purchase of equipment and masks; However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the masks are missing in our country and I am not sure that these credits will suffice to make up for this lack. With regard to the economy, the Government must go further and be clearer. Yes, we must go further: the Solidarity Fund must help all companies, including those that have experienced a 50% reduction in activity, because with such a decrease they will find it difficult to survive. There is also a need for arrangements for corporate representatives, presidents of simplified share companies – SAS –, majority and minority managers of limited liability companies – SARL – and collaborating spouses. There is also the question of the timing of VAT, which you mentioned, Mr Darmanin; One solution would be to postpone the impending expiry of this tax – which certainly concerns the activities of February – for companies whose turnover does not exceed a certain threshold, because all activities are in difficulty. Yes, the Government must also be clearer because, since yesterday, companies have been facing a complicated situation and are undergoing disorganization. Here and there, the contractors stop certain construction sites. Many companies face the right to withdraw employees; What do they have to do? I would like you to answer a simple question: can a company authorised to work, which has taken the decision to close for reasons of safety or lack of staff – particularly if it exercises its right to withdraw – be eligible for the proposed aid, particularly partial unemployment? [[Mr. Nicolas Forissier applauds]] In this exceptional situation, the $6.5 billion released by the Financial Reform Bill is a first step in helping firms in difficulty and maintaining the income of their employees, but care must be taken not to forget anyone and not to leave holes in the racket, which could damage certain professions, activities or types of employment contracts. We must therefore do more. For the sake of accountability, Members of the Republican Group have tabled amendments to this effect, and I hope you will hear them. However, we will vote on this amending finance bill and we will be part of the essential national unity that the situation demands.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u29	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u30	We have never been so far apart from each other, yet we have never been so united, forming a nation united in the face of one of the greatest challenges in its history. Never before has this chamber been so depopulated in such a serious moment; It is, however, more than ever inhabited by the 577 representatives of the people of France – from metropolis and overseas – whom I greet fraternally. Perhaps this Chamber has never been so silent, and this silence obviously sounds like a unanimous tribute, the tribute of a France confined to the heroes who fight for it: doctors, nurses, aide-instants, stretchers, pharmacists, who struggle foot on foot in the Oise and in the East, and in all territories, to bring back the invisible enemy who, in a few weeks, brought the planet to knees. They are the face and the greatness of France, and our gratitude to them is inexhaustible. In addition to the health disaster, there is now the economic disaster that calls for the emergency measures that we are discussing. Because the difficulties of the companies are gathering together and spreading, making the spectre of a devastating recession glide on the country. Like the disease that is transmitted through our social relations, the interlocking of our production processes leads to the spread of ad hoc or targeted distress to the entire economy. Cash flow difficulties first, which spread through deadlines and defaults; the subsequent supply disruptions, which paralyze the production chains, with the major risk that France's entrepreneurial heritage will deteriorate. A company that disappears is a fabric of relationships, a know-how, a culture, a community that is lost forever. A business that closes is life, it is the soul of a village that is stifled. Our businesses, our businesses and our artisans are a national treasure, which it is our duty to protect, whatever the cost. That is why the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement welcome the measures announced by the President of the Republic and the exceptional mobilization of the Government and State services under your responsibility, Ministers; And that is why they will obviously vote on this bill. Indeed, the Government's economic defence plan addresses both the absolute need to preserve the purchasing power of employees and self-employed persons and the need to arm our companies and associations. With EUR 45 billion spent on the extension of partial unemployment, the suspension of contributions and tax burdens, the reinforcement of healthcare workers and the compensation of the self-employed, with the guarantee fund of an unprecedented scale, which will allow banks to deploy 300 billion credits to businesses, this is 50 times more than what had been done at the heart of the 2008 crisis and which had saved tens of thousands of jobs. It is our collective responsibility today to ensure that these munitions can be immediately mobilized by all companies, associations and independents in all the territories of the Republic, and to verify that the State services and banking institutions are in a position to respond to their demands. We call on the Government to follow up qualitatively as well as quantitatively as closely as possible to the actors and realities of the front and to report regularly to national representation. This morning, in Frankfurt, Europe finally woke up by announcing a massive campaign of support for states and businesses. But we have to go further. Let us demonstrate that union is the strength, let us recognize that our destiny is linked, let us mutualize the financing of this new world war, let us plan together the recovery effort, when the time comes. There is no future for the peoples of Europe other than in the Union. This crisis affects what we have most intimate and precious: our relationship to others, to those we love. But through the darkness, where we are immersed, points out a glimmer of hope, the hope that a new world can emerge from the ruins of the previous one: a safer world, more fraternal; a more sovereign, more protective Europe; a rethought place for man in his environment; a model of development in which the private interest and always forced to give in to the general interest and to the preservation of common goods. [[Philippe Vigier and Nathalie Elimas and Olivia Gregoire applaud]] Colleagues, nothing will ever be the same as before. Let us raise our souls to the height of the moment, let us each take our responsibility in this ordeal, and stand ready to build a better future together!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u31	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u32	Coronavirus is a terrible health crisis for France and many countries; its corollary is an economic and perhaps also financial crisis. To begin to stem the economic crisis, the Government is releasing a contingency plan that is reflected in this amending finance bill. To sum up, this plan contains three types of measures: a State guarantee for loans to enterprises; a cash gap for the payment of social contributions over two months; aid amounting to 6.5 billion – 5.5 billion to finance partial unemployment and 1 billion to the business support fund, with 750 million financed by the State. At the same time, your amending finance bill proposes a projection of tax and social revenue cuts, and also incorporates the smallest privatisation revenues – probably as a result of your welcome renunciation of privatising Aéroports de Paris. This has been said by several speakers before me: no one can predict the scale of the economic crisis ahead, but if we want to limit its scope, we must act immediately. As far as cash is concerned, the state guarantee you are proposing is a good thing, but as I said this morning in my question to the Prime Minister, the deferral of contributions for businesses that no longer have an activity because they have had to close – for example restaurants – is only half a measure; It would be better, over the next two months, to consider a cancellation rather than a carry-over of contributions. We saw it in 2008: we had considered postponements, but the companies went bankrupt and it was in any case the state that paid in the end; so as to announce today the cancellation of the contributions. Finally, of course, we support the creation of the emergency fund you are proposing, even though we have tabled amendments to improve it. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you about what is not included in this amending finance bill. Earlier, the Minister of Action and Public Accounts told us about 2 billion for hospitals; But no one saw them! Show us where they are! The emergency is at our doorstep, we must recruit staff immediately: in the resuscitation blocks, it takes 1.5 caregivers for 2 patients; In other services, 1 caregiver is required for 5 patients. Recruitment must be done immediately. For having exchanged with officials in hospitals and clinics, I know that the recruiting pool is there; All you have to do is activate it. So please tell us where those $2 billion are because we didn't find them this morning, in committee, or by rereading the bill. However, there is an urgent need: if health care professionals buy another 10,000 respirators, as the crisis unfolds, there must be staff to operate them, otherwise it will be useless and hospital facilities will be devastated. Even if, as you have pointed out on several occasions, the draft amending finance bill is not a health-related text, it is nevertheless the budget translation, so we would have liked it to also shed light on the question of the means that you are affecting the production of masks and tests. This morning, I asked the Prime Minister a question to that effect. Finally, we asked you, by the voice of my colleague Christine Pires Beaune, to return to the waiting day for officials affected by the coronavirus, in order to align them with the private sector. It is important to make this gesture. It would be a temporary measure – I do not question your doctrine – but it must be taken urgently because many officials are involved. With regard to the guarantee that you are planning, we would have liked – but we too have been rebutted by Article 40 – that it also applies to French educational institutions abroad. Can you reassure us on this point? In conclusion, an amending finance bill is obviously not intended to resolve all matters, but it must address the urgency. I would therefore like, ladies and gentlemen, to have you give us details of the 2 billion that you have mentioned and that to my knowledge no one has found. There is a pool of personnel who can be recruited immediately; You have to do this, and for that you have to activate all the necessary budgetary appropriations. Light up these 2 billion, make sure they become real, they can be unlocked and activated right away. It's the urgency, and your amending finance bill doesn't reflect it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u33	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u34	We will vote for the other measures, so the text as a whole, but we want to get a quick light on these 2 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u35	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u36	First of all, I join my colleagues in greeting the courage of caregivers who save lives and avoid the tragedy in hospitals; We all have to think about them, as all the French do. I would also like to thank the staff of the National Assembly for allowing this meeting. It's a bad time, and we all know it on those benches. This amending finance bill must, if I have understood correctly, be able to inject the necessary liquidity in a strong and urgent manner, in order to avoid economic and social collapse as a result of the health crisis. I will, of course, vote for this text because there is an urgent need for union, but there are several points on which I would like to insist, where I would like to obtain corrections, or at least inflections. The first urgency is the obligation to cancel, rather than postpone, contributions; the president of the Socialist and related group stressed it. Because we know very well that once a company is dead, the postponement is not very useful. Secondly, I would like to see a study of the American helicopter currency solution – and I have tabled an amendment to that effect – because we know very well that the relay by the banks does not necessarily make it possible to obtain the credit requested. Let us remember the dramatic episode of 2008 which led to the creation of a credit mediator to ensure that the banks have a real response. Why not go through direct distribution to the French? If the epidemic lasts, it will be the only solution. That's why I'm trying to get to the point. If the epidemic lasts too long, the compensatory measures that we are going to vote for tonight will not be able to support our economy forever and guarantee the income of the French. To date, however, the epidemic has not been controlled. And if we do not want to water the sand and lose thousands more lives, we must win the health battle, mother of all battles. That is why Parliament must not only vote for funds, but also ensure that the Government makes use of them, and make proposals adapted to the reality of the ground, as the gap between advertisements and the reality of what the caregivers are experiencing is immense. I had proposed – which had been refused – the creation of a national commission, involving all political and trade union forces, which would meet very regularly and bring the reality of the situation to the attention of the Government. You have to have the courage to tell the truth here. The lack of anticipation of your Government, confirmed by the former Minister of Health, Mrs Buzyn herself, but also, it must be acknowledged, your inability to guarantee the necessary means to fight the Covid-19 endangers the lives of many French people. There is an urgent need to change course, to change pace. For to win the war it takes coherent orders, a global plan and soldiers with ammunition. For weeks the hospital officers have been waiting for all this, the liberal doctors have been shouting their anger. They've been waiting for the famous masks for weeks. The Minister of Health said this morning that France produces 8 million masks a week. However, if there are 2 million health personnel and professionals exposed, four masks per day, the need is not 8 million masks per week but per day. If we add the number of French people who have to work to turn the economy and public services, and who deserve to be reassured, millions more masks are needed. That is why it is incomprehensible to hear members of the Government tell us that masks are not indispensable. That's not true. Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore stopped the epidemic because they had been able to provide the necessary masks to their population. Even better: it was because they were able to provide these masks that they were able to avoid, by allowing a large part of the population to continue to work, the collapse of their national economy. Barriers, consisting of washing one's hands and keeping one's distance from another, are not enough for people who are in contact with an audience. One day, it will be necessary to mention again the responsibility of those who removed strategic mask stocks in 2011 and 2013. But today, the essential thing is not there. The main thing is to produce masks. We must come together to multiply the production of masks by ten. At least 10 million masks should be produced per day. The army must also be called to distribute these masks as we are told that logistical problems arise. In a word, we need to change our doctrine. The lack of resources to influence doctrine should not be used as a pretext. We need to adapt our means to the demands. What South Korea has done with regard to the generalization of tests and what some Asian countries have done with regard to wearing the mask should encourage us, and even force us, to change our policy completely if we want to break the contamination. Containment is not enough, it must be accompanied by a generalisation of tests and a massive distribution of masks to protect our fellow citizens, first and foremost our caregivers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u37	I now call the clauses of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2020. In the course of this discussion, we will consider seventy amendments. I would point out to you that, in view of the exceptional rules on the presence in the Chamber, an amendment may be supported by any member of the group to which the author belongs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u38	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u39	First of all, I want to recall some macroeconomic data. We are likely to see a 1% drop in our GDP. As potential growth has been estimated at 1.25%, this will leave us room for manoeuvre at the time of the rebound. At the budgetary level, the deficit forecast, which was 2.2 per cent in the original finance bill, is now 3.9 per cent. What seems important to us is that the deterioration of this deficit is mainly due to exceptional measures, which are therefore not lasting in nature. That is why the Government assumes that the structural deficit will be maintained at 2.2 per cent. This is in a way the consequence of the structural reforms that we were able to undertake before this crisis. They have enabled us to achieve a GDP growth rate of 1.3%, the highest in the European Union. This economic growth has allowed us to create fiscal room for manoeuvre. I would like to respond to the poor mood of the Chairman of the Finance Committee by stating that in 2020 our forecast of public balance was 2.2% deficit, one of the best scores achieved in recent years. Finally, I would like to remind you that we have stabilized the debt, which had not happened in more than ten years. Thanks to our structural reforms, we have made gains in economic growth. As a result of our reforms, we have created budgetary room for manoeuvre. This allows us today to address this crisis in a situation that may be more satisfactory than other countries, both in terms of growth and public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u40	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u41	I will make several introductory remarks. First of all, I am not quite on the same line as our colleague Daniel Labaronne. I would point out that the High Council for Public Finance has some doubts, including the maintenance of the structural deficit at 2.2%, based on the fact that it is extremely difficult, in the present situation, to make perfectly reliable forecasts. This leads me to make an important point, as I did this morning in the Finance Committee. Work in the aftermath of the crisis, the next day, must begin today. The question of ways and means, of trajectories aimed at reducing public deficits and debt – which will increase considerably – must be dealt with today. It is one of the conditions necessary for building confidence that will contribute to the success of the contingency plan. The second point concerns a point already raised by Mrs Louwagie. This bill has several blind spots, holes in the racket that create uncertainty and deep concern among some of our fellow citizens – I am thinking in particular of the social agents, already mentioned, the self-employed, and more broadly the self-employed, the collaborating spouses. Clarification should be provided concerning them. There is a debate about insurance rules regarding the management of natural disasters and health-related disasters, particularly with regard to operating losses. Some discussions suggest that there may be difficulties. We need to clarify this debate on operating insurance, including by proposing, as we will do, a supplementary fund. There is also the problem of undertakings placed in collective proceedings and excluded from the solidarity fund, while such undertakings – or at least those in recovery or in safeguard proceedings – may resume their activities. In a way, we're adding a little more to the boat for them. Again, answers must be provided. The building sector also needs answers, as do some extremely affected sectors: horticulture, ski resorts. The holes in the racket are therefore numerous. In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to a methodological problem. You have to go fast, choose simplicity and efficiency. In this regard, I stress the need for an effective partnership, not just in words, with the regional councils, which have competence in economic matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u42	Mr President, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u43	According to some echoes I have heard, there seems to be some concern on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u44	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u45	I wanted to intervene in the introduction of this amending finance bill because questions continue to arise and it seems to me important to provide clear answers to them. The first concerns local and regional authorities. The partial unemployment measures announced, and funded by this bill, apply only to the private sector. Public-law contractors cannot benefit from this. Is it possible to provide for a derogation so that local and regional authorities can make use of it? My second question is economic. Bitterrois business leaders alerted me to the fact that they would have wished to be covered by their "loss of operation" insurance to deal with this unprecedented crisis. Almost all contracts exclude the epidemic event. A remedy would have no impact on government finances. What solution do you propose to solve this problem? Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of certain companies which have been forced to discontinue their activities for health reasons and whose case is not currently being considered by the Government. Indeed, according to the declarations of the Minister of Labour, any undertaking which undergoes an administrative closure or a fall in activity is eligible for the partial unemployment scheme. However, what about companies which are not in this situation and which, from an economic point of view, could continue their activity but in which the entrepreneur himself or the employees consider that the health conditions are not currently met in view of the usual production processes? Shouldn't the situation of these firms be examined so that they can suspend, at least temporarily, their activity and be eligible for the partial unemployment scheme? What steps do you intend to take to address this problem? On the other hand, can you assure us that companies affected by administrative closure, partial unemployment for declining activity or suspension of activity for health reasons can, if the situation prevents them from fulfilling their contractual obligations to their customers, invoke force majeure? This is due to the survival of a very large number of companies, in particular our TPEs and SMEs, which are now at risk of failing their private providers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u46	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u47	Mr Minister, the opening article shows – we talked about it at length this morning in the Finance Committee – that the deficit worsens by 1.7 percentage points of GDP is, to be clear, 39 billion, of which 15 billion for the state and therefore, by deduction, 24 for social security – essentially – and local and regional authorities. However, with regard to social security, the Government had announced an increase of 2 billion in ONDAM for hospitals and an additional 2.75 billion for Unédic, a total of almost 5 billion. We are going to lose just over 19 billion social contributions. Could you give us an explanation on this, Minister, since there is no amending finance law for social security. It would have been logical, however, to put the two bills on the agenda so that we could see clearly about a deterioration in public deficits of $39 billion. The rapporteur-general had indicated that he hoped to obtain these details for this meeting, and I hope you will be able to answer us on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u48	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u49	I will make a number of remarks. All the forecasts that are made are nice and interesting but have the value of examining a crystal ball.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u50	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u51	To consider that the forecast of potential growth remains unchanged from the 2020 finance bill seems to me to be a vision of the spirit. Many of you have said this: at a time when we are talking, we do not know – and no one is responsible – whether the global economy will collapse or whether we will be able, through the measures taken, to maintain a functioning that prevents this collapse. This places us in a very special situation. For some of you, it is simply a matter of restoring a balance, which is why they use the word "crisis" which implies a return to a previous balance. On the other hand, we perceive a general bifurcation of the world economy because it is overshadowed by a considerable amount of debt and the circulation of fictitious securities, without material consideration. I also receive a note at the moment indicating that the President of the Republic has announced an increase of 5 billion in the research budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u52	It's a ten-year increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u53	I do not know where this sum comes from, but it is not included in the text we are discussing today. Are these 5 billion being transferred from one post to another or do they have another origin? What are we really talking about? Could we have a document with stable data – but to the impossible no one is bound – or could we have a re-visit clause between us about an amending finance bill that takes into account the new parameters that we will have recorded over the hours? The text before us was prepared last Tuesday. On Thursday, two days later, global financial conditions changed. Can one imagine being able to discuss all this again next Tuesday on a more stable basis?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u54	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u55	I do not believe that the state is addressing this crisis in good financial health. We have never done so much to reduce the deficit which has stagnated since last year and constitutes the vast majority of the European deficit. We make little effort. Other countries are doing better. In this respect, I do not seek any responsibility; I am content with one observation – we must agree on the fact if we are to draw effective and almost acceptable consequences for each other. There is, therefore, a matter of concern which must not, however, prevent us from taking action, as I have already said. However, the debt and deficit will probably be higher than what is foreseen in the text. You expect a recession of one point of GDP, but, following the 2008 crisis, in the context of an economy that is certainly very shaken, but not necessarily more than what we will be experiencing tomorrow, our country's GDP has contracted from 2.8 to 2.9 points. I am thinking in particular of the future fall in tax revenues, which is only slightly anticipated. Of course, the 10 or 11 billion in the text seems to be a large amount, but they are very little if one compares them to the 45 billion that were missing in 2008. All of this leads me to call for the utmost caution and to stress the need to develop, as a road map for the Government, a law on public finance programming consistent with the situation in the country. It is true that this is not a feature of the programming law in force, but today we really need such a text. This law will, of course, apply once the health crisis is behind us, but the Government must prepare it with the utmost care and vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u56	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u57	With regard to what has just been said, in particular by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, I believe that we absolutely must avoid any political posture. There is no reason to wonder, for example, whether the majority has sufficiently reduced deficits, and I would point out that the exit from the excessive deficit procedure took place during this five-year period. We could also probably consider that the trajectory to achieve this had begun in the previous quinquennium, but, in my view, the time is not a kind of consideration. Although some will probably feel that this was not enough, the majority has shown a genuine budgetary seriousness that allows it to devote resources to mechanisms to deal with a major economic crisis. That's what counts! Do we, yes or no, have the means to put in place tools for business cash flow? The answer is "yes". For my part, I will avoid pushing too far the comparison between the current situation and the 2008 crisis. The current economic context is very different. We are not dealing with a financial crisis resulting from an economic crisis and then a new financial crisis, but with a health crisis that takes place over a specific period – it is true that we do not know how long it takes and that is the whole difficulty – causing a forced slowdown in the economy from which an economic crisis arises. It's very different. The current crisis is more "pilotable". We are indeed in a position to anticipate and understand, today much better than yesterday, a slowdown in businesses, which we are forcing in a way, at the same time as we are helping them to survive as much as we can. We anticipate this slowdown with, for the time being, our knowledge of the health crisis. In other words, all the figures chosen by the project were developed in the light of our understanding of the progress of the health crisis and not of an economic crisis "controlled" by slowing down or even stopping parts of the country's economic activity. This very atypical crisis cannot be compared to an economic and financial crisis like the one we experienced twelve years ago. Will the forecast of a public deficit of 3.9% as set out in the text be verified at the end of the year? No one can say that in the Chamber. What matters to the sincerity of the text before us, however, is that the figures that it is putting forward are properly calibrated and consistent with what we know today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u58	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u59	Allow me to provide some elements of a response to the inscriptions on the opening article. If you agree, I will be able to respond more briefly to certain amendments. I will only add a few elements to the rapporteur-general's arguments, which I fully agree with. First of all, this draft law on amending finance has only one objective: to enable the urgent measures that the economic system needs, to the tune of 45 billion euros, to be taken by providing guarantees for 300 billion euros. This is an emergency response. We state this in the general explanatory memorandum, and the High Council for Public Finance also states in its opinion that we have developed a scenario based on a one-month containment and closure of activities. Obviously, depending on the evolution of the epidemic and the situation, we will be able to correct the assumptions made. Secondly, with regard to fiscal measures, I would like to point out that the Government will be against many of the amendments: it wishes to reserve these measures – apart from those taken on an urgent basis with regard to postponement, which have already been mentioned – in order to include them in the productive pact and the recovery plan on which it is working. On the one hand, whenever this stimulus plan is intended to amend the original finance law, it will obviously be accompanied if it is necessary by a amending finance bill. On the other hand, a programmatic and multi-annual discussion on the impact of measures on public finances will necessarily take place in order to revise a number of trajectories, if only in compliance with our European commitments. Mr Mélenchon, with regard to our growth hypothesis, it is true that the PLFR submitted to you changes nominal growth without affecting potential growth, but, as I have just said, we will have other opportunities to make the necessary corrections. Mrs Ménard, local and regional authorities are not eligible for the partial unemployment scheme. This is due to their particular legal and economic situation. In law, these communities do not finance conventional unemployment schemes in any way. In fact, contrary to what is happening in the private sector, they do not record a decline in revenue or almost no decline. Indeed, their budget is not turnover, and the share of their revenues indexed to a sale or product is truly marginal. Based on their main revenues, their allocations are not reduced, the property tax paid by households remains stable, as is the equivalent of the housing tax given the rebates. Another very short-term aspect can be credited to local managers: communities as a whole can rely on a cash flow of $44 billion – a global figure. This seems to me to allow them, in general, to pass the course that private companies cannot take. Finally, with regard to the 2 billion expenditure on the medical sector that you are calling for, I anticipate my response to the amendment that President Rabault will be defending: this PLFR is concerned only with the state budget, but the 2 billion in question are social expenditure that must be included under ONDAM. The rapporteur-general reminded us this morning that the latter was only an objective that we will be able to overcome in order to meet the needs. We have already announced a number of tenders for masks and equipment. We are also planning measures to recognize the commitment, and we want to fund the upgrading of the daily allowances. The 2 billion that are not included in the PLFR will appear in the social accounts. True, I do not know if we will need a bill to finance social security, but the commitment is made to document this amount in the social accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u60	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u61	I take the opportunity that Mr.Dussopt joined us to point out that the issue of the waiting day for officials with Covid-19 remained unanswered. The subject has already been raised without success this morning in questions to the Government and then in the Finance Committee. Let me turn to the appeal amendment, which seeks to obtain further information on public deficits, all categories of public administrations combined. The PLFR includes a revision of the government deficit forecast with an increase over the initial finance law of 1.7 percentage points, which amounts to about 45 billion. With Article 1 of the text, we know that the budget deficit will grow by 15.4 billion, so we assume that the overall development of the public deficit will be the result, in particular, of the balance of the social security administrations. If we do not have a bill to finance social security, we would like more details on this matter. Admittedly the ONDAM is a non-limitative objective, therefore indicative, but a bill to finance the social security corrective, would give not only indications of the 2 billion that we are still looking for, but also a visibility for the healthcare staff and all those who work in the hospital. I would remind you that the Socialist and related group presented, a few months ago, an emergency plan for the hospital and autonomy. This information would make it possible to make strong arrangements for hospitals, EHPADs, or home help.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u62	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u63	I will briefly comment on the amendments that we discussed this morning at the Finance Committee meeting – that was barely three hours ago. I am against this amendment, withdrawn in committee, for the reasons we have just mentioned regarding the predictability of accounts. The $2 billion is a provision, as the Secretary of State has indicated. There is no need to introduce a draft law on the financing of social security as the ONDAM is an objective while the finance bills contain ceilings of appropriations. The difference is big. It should also be borne in mind that the PLFR makes it possible to operate the public guarantee in accordance with the organic law. The choice of legislative vehicle is therefore the right one: it is consistent to file a PLFR and not to present a PLFSSR – you will excuse the acronyms. On the other hand, it is positive that the Government has provided €2 billion as soon as the general statement of reasons of the PLFR. This is a good signal, bearing in mind that the text already contains specific guidelines for the expenditure concerned, such as the purchase of masks or the increase in daily allowances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u64	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u65	I shall come back to the discussion of other amendments on certain questions raised by Mrs Pires Beaune, in particular the one relating to the day on which officials fail. Following the comments of the rapporteur-general and those I myself have been able to make, I call for the withdrawal of an amendment to which the Government is not in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u66	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u67	Amendment No 20 should be unnecessary. We should have data on the state, social security and local and regional authorities. Mr Secretary of State, it is not difficult to answer! The rapporteur-general himself expected the Government to provide him with this basic information, especially since the Government knew the overall amount. A question arises with regard to Unédic, whose additional expenditure will amount, in accordance with the text we are considering, to 2.75 billion. Unedic is already in deficit. Will its debt ceiling, which is of a legislative nature, be saturated by the 2.75 billion? We can exceed the ONDAM by 2 billion because it is not limiting, but what about an overrun of 2.75 billion on the side of Unédic? If the debt ceiling voted by Parliament is not respected, no bank will lend to Unédic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u68	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u69	I do not understand why the Government refuses to communicate more about this $2 billion. The French need to be reassured. Since, and this is very good, you have decided to open an envelope of $2 billion in social accounts, it is in your interest to tell us what needs this amount will be used to fund. We are thinking in particular of the need to recruit staff. If you buy 10,000 resuscitation respirators, it will be necessary for health care staff to operate them. I repeat, we need to know what needs this money will be used to finance. I agree: this is more a matter for the PLFSS than for the PLFR. However, since the introductory article incorporates the balance of all public finances – state, social security and local authorities – it would be interesting for you to provide us with details on this $2 billion plan: what it will fund, the number of recruitments you plan to undertake and when.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u70	As there are not many of you in each political group, I ask you to coordinate. I have several requests to speak for the same group, whereas I will give it to only one speaker. I would like to stress: the small configuration in which we meet allows you to coordinate within each group, in order to appoint one speaker. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u71	Mrs Rabault is right – I also asked the same question this morning in the context of the questions to the Government: we need to know what those 2 billions correspond to, where you take them, what you intend them to be. There are needs, including staff to provide hygiene in hospitals. The managements of some institutions have also alerted us to the cash flow problems they are experiencing, both to deal with the coronavirus crisis and to continue to provide other care. How can these hospitals consider the future if they do not receive any answers to their questions? Clarifying and making more specific commitments would reassure everyone. While you know how to be more explicit about other issues, we do not understand your inaccuracy with regard to hospital funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u72	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u73	We'll give you a little credit again. As no one knows what money will eventually be needed, you have already planned 2 billion while leaving the line open: agree. If it is necessary to go beyond that, is there a re-visit clause with Parliament in order to discuss it? If you would assure us, several problems would be solved: several groups have asked you to set up a follow-up committee. Our group called it "permanent parliamentary follow-up committee", others, otherwise: no matter what the name. What matters is the creation of a parliamentary structure to accompany the announcements. The request of my colleagues does not seem to me to be exaggerated or comminatory: it is normal for us to know the destination of these 2 billion, since, on all sides, we are going back to facts which we cannot assure the truth. Thus, the prefect assures us that the mask orders have been placed and the deliveries made, when, on the other hand, we are told that these same masks have not been delivered or, then, have been in insufficient quantity. You mentioned the production of 8 million masks a week: this is good news, but you should know that the planned distribution of 18 million masks to staff is insufficient in relation to needs. How much of this $2 billion will be spent on the purchase of such equipment? Finally, Mr. Secretary of State, while the World Health Organization is calling for as many people as possible to be tested this morning, we heard the Government assure that this is not necessary. Who's right? Is it the Government or the WHO? What is the basis for the decision to the contrary? What does this have to do with the 2 billion you're proposing to register?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u74	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u75	In reply to Mr de Courson, I would add that at this stage Unédic has not told us of any difficulties related to the question of the debt ceiling. Perhaps this will be the case in the next few days, when the full information has been analysed. If that is the case, then we will make the necessary arrangements. The top priority for this EUR 2 billion is to respond to the urgency expressed by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, both in terms of orders for masks and equipment and in terms of the improvement of daily allowances. The EUR 2 billion entered in the social accounts mentioned by Mrs Rabault will obviously have an impact on the balance of the PLFSS as voted. I hear a request from a PLFSSR: I don't know if we'll need one. It is clear, however, that the Government will have to report to Parliament on the exact breakdown of this amount. Will these EUR 2 billion be used to finance recruitment in particular? As we speak, the demands made by the Ministry of Health are primarily related to equipment and daily allowances. It goes without saying that we will take account of the changing needs according to the health situation: we will then be able to cope with the difficulties in both recruiting and training staff. Today, to answer your question, I would say that we have concentrated this EUR 2 billion on orders for equipment, including masks, and on daily allowances, in order to show the recognition that we owe to hospital staff. The fact-finding mission decided upon by the Bureau of the Assembly will have the opportunity to question the Government on the matter. Other parliamentary meetings will allow us to provide the necessary details on the consumption of these appropriations. Understand that, given the emergency situation in which we find ourselves, we are responding, at this stage, to a request from the Ministry of Solidarity and Health – a request which is, unfortunately, likely to be followed by others, depending on the development of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u76	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u77	I find this debate somewhat baroque. This is not an appropriation, since we are not in the "budget-state" field, as the Secretary of State pointed out: the bill might not have mentioned the social sphere or the health sphere. I repeat: I find it curious that there is a false debate on this 2 billion, when it is the Government's sincere announcement of a provision to meet the needs of the Minister of Solidarity and Health for masks and daily allowances, which will necessarily increase. It was not mandatory to include this announcement in this text: it aims to anticipate the budgetary sincerity of all public administrations. While it is normal to ask questions, that does not prevent us from recognizing that the Government has acted well. Let us not embark on an unsolved debate on these 2 billion, on which we will get all the necessary details later. That Parliament should monitor its implementation is part of its work. Let us not blame the Government for its sincerity and transparency: let us not make the 2 billion a bag of knots.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u78	We are considering the first part of the Finance Amendment Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u79	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article before Article 1. Mr Eric Woerth has the floor to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u80	This amendment, which has not been discussed in committee, aims to change the overtime scheme: in 2020, they are exempt from social contributions and income tax up to an annual amount of EUR 5000. We hope, as you do, that the economy will continue to run. However, we all find in the territories that it is difficult to reconcile confinement with going to work. We must go to small production enterprises, for example: not everyone can use telework. However, many employees do not come to work, which puts companies in great difficulty. Overtime during the state of health emergency should be exempted in the same way as the rest, but should not be subject to the EUR 5000 ceiling. This would encourage employees to go to work while at the same time being a sign of recognition of the work they provide. It would not be expensive, since the state of health emergency is not intended to last.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u82	I understand the interest of this amendment, while being reserved for the fact that the deflation of social and tax exemptions from overtime is the priority. Rather, it is to accompany those who can work while allowing businesses to continue their business if possible and, if not, to help them through this difficult period, so that they can keep the job and pay the wages. That those who work continue to be paid is the least of all things. Should we take advantage of this to defuse the challenges of working overtime? Even if the budgetary stake is not important, I prefer to use this money to support the cash flow of companies: the priority is employment and not the purchasing power of those who work. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u83	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u84	Unfavorable opinion for the same reasons, especially since the effect of the proposed measure would be shifted from the current situation. Such a measure would be more in its place, in the medium term, in the consideration of a recovery plan. It is not appropriate to include it in the current emergency text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u85	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u86	The President of the Republic has just announced that he will value the effort of those who work in the current situation: will it be in the form of a bonus? We would like clarification. Mr Minister of Economy and Finance, I would like to ask you, with regard to the construction sector – building and public works – about the application of the doctrine in the economic emergency in which we are immersed. In Rhône-Alpes, in particular, this sector wishes to temporarily stop construction work because it considers that the health conditions are not currently in place. Supply and logistics problems arise for basic needs such as food or water. Can you give us details of the Government's intentions in response to the statements of the President of the Republic concerning the revalorisation of the work of the people who are now being requisitioned? And can you clarify the doctrine, particularly with regard to the BTP, a central sector, which is waiting for a clear answer from you – I know that you are sensitive to it, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u87	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u88	I am in favour of this amendment, because at this exceptional moment we appeal to good will, to people who do not use their right to withdraw and who are ready to make every effort in favour of the national cause. It is essential that they be better remunerated as part of this exceptional effort by the nation. As Damien Abad rightly pointed out, it is up to you, as Minister of Economy and Finance, to reassure several sectors. We are flooded with e-mails and letters from people who don't know if they can go to work. They are not aware of the activities which are authorised when health safety is ensured. Company managers are wondering if they should immediately place their partially unemployed employees and go to the bank to apply for their loan. You must, Minister, answer these questions, which are ever more pressing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u89	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u90	President Abad, President Vigier, your questions are legitimate: they are important to hundreds of thousands of our compatriots. I repeat what I have already said in my presentation of the amending finance bill: in the situation of economic crisis, combined with a health crisis, in which we find ourselves, our only compass to make our decisions must be, in our soul and conscience, the best interest of the nation. "In our soul and conscience" means that we must guarantee the health security of all employees in all companies. This is the absolute requirement. But the best interest of the nation is also the continuity of economic life, without which the French will no longer be able to supply themselves and have access to drinking water or electricity tomorrow. The most fragile, especially those who are isolated and elderly, will find themselves in an untenable situation. It is therefore necessary to reconcile these two objectives: the total health security of employees and the vital imperative of maintaining certain activities. I trust the sectors and sectors concerned. In the building and public works sector, it is indeed difficult to organize. I was able to see the reactions of the Confederation of Crafts and Small Building Enterprises, CAPEB, and the various federations. I understand their questions and share their willingness to protect their employees on construction sites. That is perfectly legitimate. At the same time, however, it is not necessary for all the construction projects in the BTP to be stopped, because this could cause problems in our country. So I invite these federations to come together. Over the next few hours, the Minister of Labour will hold meetings in which I will participate. Let us give ourselves the time – several hours or even several days – to define a good practice guide for the construction sites of the BTP. Rules must exist and be strictly applied to ensure the health safety of employees on construction sites. It is in dialogue and consultation that we will be able to define them. Let us take the time it takes to reassure all the actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u91	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u92	I propose to stay on the subject of the amendment. We will come back to the situation in the construction sector in the future. We are only twenty-four in the Chamber: anyone who wishes to speak will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u93	It's just a request for clarification, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u94	I propose that you proceed to the vote on the amendment and not to take any further reactions to the previous reactions. Rest assured, further statements will be possible at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u95	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 73.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u96	I fully support what has just been said by the Minister: when a continuation of the activity is necessary, employees must consult, where appropriate, with their trade unions and organize themselves to define the rules and good health practices applicable to production and exchange activities. The mobilisation of employees themselves will be the best protection in this context. As for this amendment, it is intended to fund an emergency plan for the hospital. As you know, we are asking for the repeal of the hospital package, which we believe is aberrant that it continues to be cashed under the present conditions. The hospital sector also needs to purchase equipment. You also need a health care worker's bonus, which I understand you've already agreed to. Finally, massive screening is needed, which needs to be funded. I ask again the question that I have not had an answer to: why do you think the World Health Organization is wrong and that there is no need for systematic screening in our country? For our part, we rely on the opinion of WHO, but we would be prepared to hear opposing arguments if they were convincing. In the meantime, it seems to me particularly risky to ignore a directive given at the global level, at the very moment when it is reiterated that such instructions are necessary to deal with the crisis. We propose that these expenses be secured by the repeal of the research tax credit – CIR – which would allow 6 billion euros of additional revenue to be collected. This morning, Minister, you thought you would give me a definitive answer by saying that the time had come wrong to remove such a device. But I repeat that the research tax credit is above all a scam, a real tax niche that allows some to evade their tax obligations. Almost everyone recognizes it – except those who benefit from it, of course. There would therefore be no problem in deleting it. It is so true that it is in public research that the President of the Republic has announced the granting of credits that he considers massive – unfortunately spread over ten years. If he had thought that the IRC and the so-called private research were more effective, that would have been where he would have concentrated his efforts. But he didn't! So meditate on his choice; He'll probably convince you more than my arguments. In any event, I say again: the research tax credit is a scam and the credits devoted to it must, in this moment of crisis, be redirected to useful expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u97	It's not possible to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u98	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u99	I did not think that, as part of the urgent debate on this bill, we would come to such a debate on the IRC. I would like to take this opportunity to give a comprehensive answer to all the amendments which are related to health issues – which are not the subject of this text – or which are intended to abolish a tax expenditure in order to free up a resource. I understand the intention: to mobilize resources in the face of the health crisis. But I am the rapporteur of a draft amending finance law, providing for budgetary appropriations and the introduction of public guarantees; My answers will therefore be limited to these provisions. On the other hand, I reiterate what I said this morning: the research tax credit is useful for businesses – not only for large groups, but also for SMEs and ITEs. It would be particularly ironic to remove it at a time when research and innovation in the pharmaceutical and medical fields are needed. The President of the Republic himself announced this afternoon an additional investment of EUR 5 billion in research, which shows how much your amendment goes against what needs to be done. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Unfavorable opinion, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u100	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u101	The Government fully shares the rapporteur-general's view that not only does such a measure not fit into an emergency bill, but it is necessary to preserve the IRC, which is a competitive tool for our economy. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u102	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u103	We too are totally against this amendment. Mr Mélenchon, I did not think that we would come to such a debate, given the importance of the IRC. It is still useful, but it is particularly useful today. I thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance for the clarification he has given. The BTP – as well as other economic sectors, such as metallurgy – is looking forward to the dissemination of a good practice guide. Such documents are necessary to reconcile health security with the best interests of the nation, which requires the continuity of economic life – a concern that we share. I wonder, however, whether the works in progress, especially those that are not essential, will be suspended for the time they will take to develop them. This is an important question, which we must answer in the interest of the players in the economic sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u104	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u105	The rapporteur-general has rightly told us that the order of the articles should be followed. Nevertheless, I would like the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to clarify the answer he has just given us. As business leaders are responsible for the safety of their employees – which is normal – some of them have taken the decision to put their teams into partial unemployment in order to avoid exposing them to coronavirus. Noting that such decisions penalized economic activity, the Government indicated this morning that it wished to see these employees return to work. But if, by being so close to their colleagues – even in unconfined places – some of them find themselves infected with the virus, business leaders will not want to bear criminal responsibility for it – because that is what this is all about! This is a persistent legal insecurity that the Government must put an end to.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u106	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u107	We can understand, Mr rapporteur-general, that you are not in a position to answer the health questions that arise during the examination of this text. I don't complain about that. But perhaps there will be someone on the benches of the Government to explain why it considered it unnecessary to apply in France the directive given by the World Health Organization. We do not know the reasons that led him to this decision and it is on this point that we expect answers – not on your part, Mr General, but on that of a representative of the Government. Moreover, you have called on us not to adopt a political stance. I suppose this expression has a negative connotation for you; You probably suggest that we pretend to defend a position without really believing in what we are saying. I invite you to respect this advice yourself. You know as well as I do, I do not propose that the search be interrupted; I propose that we put an end to a tax credit scheme which is widely recognised as not being used for research. To refute my arguments, you would just have to tell me that a large part of the IRC is supporting health research. But that is impossible, because this proportion is just insignificant! You cannot deny, Mr rapporteur-general, that the bulk of the benefit of this credit is absorbed by large companies whose research has nothing to do with health. Apart from the case of a few large companies in the medical sector – which, moreover, provide their subsidiaries abroad with this means of tax evasion – the CIR does not serve the purpose for which it was designed. For my part I know of the interior of large laboratories and firms, particularly French, which give priority to research on immediately marketable products, such as hair dyes, rather than fundamental research on new molecules. Please, don't adopt a posture! Don't act like we're opposed to research. We are in favour of public research and against tax credits that encourage speculation and provide the means to avoid its obligations to the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u108	Fantasy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u109	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u110	[[Mr. Philippe Vigier applauds]] I come back to good practice in the construction sector. Companies that have interrupted their construction sites have not necessarily acted on their own initiative: they may have done so at the request of their principal – a local authority, for example. It is therefore urgent to provide them with an answer, especially since they have not obtained the official confirmation by the DIRECCT of competition, consumption, work and employment – as the remuneration of their employees placed in technical unemployment would be borne by the State. They must therefore be reassured on this point before helping them, then, to get back to work. On this last objective, we all agree, but the first question for these companies is whether or not to take care of technical unemployment. The Fédération Française du Bâtiment (French Federation of Buildings) is sore because it is about the survival of companies in the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u111	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u112	It is true that the managers of the BTP sector are overwhelming us with messages in which they express their concern, which was rekindled this morning by the controversy between the Minister of Labour and the CAPEB d'Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. The imbroglio is total. In view of their criminal responsibility, and in order to comply with the obligation to confiscate, some construction managers placed their employees in technical unemployment when the construction sites they were working on were not urgent and did not fall within the economic imperatives defined by the Government. However, it appears that, according to the DIRECCTE, partial unemployment would not be covered in such a situation. I hear the Minister's words: in order to determine the right balance, it is necessary to engage, in the coming days, in a dialogue between the Government and the building sectors. But in the meantime, we must be able to respond to these entrepreneurs, some of whom do not sleep at night: they wanted to follow the rules by putting their employees in partial unemployment, but now fear that they will not be reimbursed, which would put their company at risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u113	Mr Abad, since the Republican Group has already spoken on the subject, I propose that you proceed immediately to the vote on the amendment. In any event, the subject will necessarily be addressed again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u114	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u115	I would like to answer the important questions that have been asked to me. First of all, as I say again, we are in an exceptional situation, which therefore requires time to set. This one is natural: it must be considered with serenity. Secondly, the direction we have set is to combine the total and non-negotiable health security of employees with the continuity of the country's economic activity. It is these two points that must be reconciled. Valérie Rabault insisted on the subject of legal certainty. In this area, the rule will remain the same: the employer is responsible for the safety of its employees at their place of work. The challenge is to ensure this security in times of epidemics. The equation is very complicated, and I fully understand the need for the employer to have legal guarantees. I put myself in the place of the owner of SMEs, in the public works sector, who sends ten or fifteen employees to a construction site: he does not want to be challenged by the courts for having exposed them. Again, I understand and share this feeling; it is legitimate; bosses must be guaranteed a right that protects them. I therefore call once again on the French Federation of Buildings to negotiate with the public authorities, in particular the Ministry of Labour, a clear and precise protocol concerning the rules applicable on construction sites in the very particular case of a health crisis like the one we are experiencing today. This protocol could be supplemented by the general good practice guide, which is currently being negotiated and covers all economic sectors. Thirdly, partial unemployment is possible when the activity is at a standstill. Again, I want to reassure everyone: we are not going to start looking at the reasons for this judgment. In certain sectors, such as the automotive industry, the activity will be interrupted due to the lack of orders: no one will buy a car, especially since the car concessions are closed. There are therefore necessarily stationary plants at Renault and PSA. Through a chain reaction, subcontractors will mechanically find themselves in the same situation; It is normal that they also have the right to partial unemployment. In the building sector, certain construction sites guarantee the safety of employees. Again, it will be up to the professionals in the sector, in liaison with the ministries of labour and health, to define what will be possible or not. But let's take the example of two roof coverings on a roof: they are spaced 2 or 3 meters apart and have no contact with the customer; Therefore, their activity is probably not a health safety problem. Although this will have to be confirmed by the specialized services, it seems to me that such a project could continue. On the other hand, take a construction site where twenty, thirty, forty workers are confined to an underground space: I understand that this poses a real difficulty and that one prefers to interrupt it. In the latter case, the company will obviously be entitled to partial unemployment. We will proceed sector by sector. In this respect, I will take two important examples. The first is that of the large distribution: for a week, I have been talking once or twice a day with its representatives. It is necessary to guarantee the health security of cashiers and cashiers; through dialogue, we have managed together to find a solution, that of sheltering them behind plexiglas windows. Perhaps complementary elements, masks, hydro-alcoholic gel are needed; We adapt all of this as we move forward, but we are in the process of defining the right solutions. The second example, which has come to light today, is that of the booksellers. I was told that people would go to buy their books on websites, which would weaken independent booksellers. I replied this morning that if they wanted to open their bookstore, I was ready to study the file. They came together and concluded that they would not manage the flow of customers into a bookstore, that people would only go in and out, that they would follow a number of safety instructions, and that therefore, in their soul and conscience, it seemed unreasonable to them to open up. The Minister of Culture, Franck Riester, and I respect this decision taken by the Syndicat de la Libraire française. However, if he believes tomorrow, or in two weeks, three weeks, that the conditions have changed and that he wants to reconsider his decision, redefine the rules, we will always be open. I repeat, in a completely new situation, the solution will depend on respect for certain principles, the most important of which is the health security of employees and other workers, but also through dialogue, dialogue and dialogue, whether at the workplace, at the workplace, at the workplace, at the industry or at the industry level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u116	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u117	Information is coming from the Senate: the Prime Minister, on the advice of the Scientific Council, should announce that municipal councils will not be able to meet on Friday or Saturday for public health reasons. At the same time, employers are left to open their businesses or not. You will understand that this is a form of inconsistency that raises many questions. I understand what the minister says, that social dialogue must be promoted everywhere in order to find the best solutions; But we are, and we are going to talk about it tomorrow, in a health emergency, where a serious epidemic leads to a containment that must be as strict as possible. It is not possible to refer companies to decide whether or not to continue their business. Minister, you are quoting the example of the roofers. You are right, to one detail: these roofers work at a distance enough to avoid the transmission of the virus, but they work, so they move to work! They go to the gas station, they take the subway; They are among those who have contacts with others. It is these contacts that must be limited, and that is why the sectors which are not essential to the economic life of the country must now be halted, with a view to stricter containment. Why, in Valenciennes, will Alstom continue to produce RER trains from Monday? Employees are mad at rage; they do not understand and cannot assert their right to withdraw. They will be several hundred to go to work. Even if they respect a safe distance, they will have to get out of their homes, take their cars, have lunch, have a social life. Much more rigour is needed in this area if we are to stem the epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u118	Mr Roussel, perhaps you too would like to defend your amendment: we are listening to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u119	This is to resume a measure decided by President Sarkozy following the 2008 crisis, which, for several years, led to exceptional provisions aimed at bailing out State funds. Thus, on 28 December 2011, an exceptional high-income contribution was introduced. Taxpayers with reference tax income between EUR 250,000 and EUR 500000 were subject to an additional contribution of 3 % and 4 % if the reference tax income was between EUR 500000 and 1 million. This tax still exists; It brought back about 600 million last year and reached 30,000 households. We propose to increase the product from 3% to 5% and from 4% to 8%. This could make it possible to bring 1 million into the state coffers for the year 2020, which would certainly be useful to meet the needs of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u120	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u121	Our contingency plan for corporate cash costs a lot of money; It is normal, and I agree with you on this point that, in general, we must call for solidarity. In addition, for the past two and a half years, we have reduced compulsory corporate and household levies. It works; It gives the French purchasing power. I do not think that, in view of the plan presented by the Government, financed by budgetary appropriations, therefore by the community, it is now a good idea to raise the tax burden again on anyone. We are asked to maintain our fiscal consistency. We have to go through this storm together for businesses to survive; We do not have to increase the taxes of French people, whatever they may be, especially since income tax is already very redistributive in our country. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u122	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u123	Same opinion, for exactly the same reasons. I do not want to be too brief in my explanation, but the Government agrees with the rapporteur-general.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u124	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u125	I would simply like to reply to Mr Roussel to close this debate and not to allow any ambiguity between us. First of all, it seems to me that we are more confined here, on the benches of the National Assembly, than two roof coverings on a roof. It is therefore possible to guarantee the health safety of workers and the continuation of their activity. Next, all the construction sites are now at a standstill, by decision of the construction industry and public works. Therefore, before they resume, the dialogue that I referred to and the drafting of a protocol defining the rules, the measures to be taken to guarantee health safety will have to take place: the number of people on a construction site, their spacing, the means of transport to the construction site. To take a concrete example, you cannot have three people at the front of a van, tight against each other. There are other possibilities for mobility, which do not lead to physical proximity between the employees of the building. We will see at the end of this dialogue; We will take the time it takes, regardless of whether it is twenty-four, forty-eight or seventy-two hours, to define this protocol of rules and convincing measures for all. It is not the Government that will arbitrate, prescribe to do this or that. It is not the channels that will decide it on their own. All together, Government, health authorities, channels, we look at what is necessary and we define the protocol. I am sure that at the end of this discussion, construction sites will reopen, others will remain closed because he would not be responsible for reopening them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u126	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u127	You will recognize the merit of constancy, as we table this amendment every time we look at an amending finance bill. In the situation we are experiencing today, it is all the more justified: we will need public resources to deal with it. One cannot function by simply appealing to the generosity of patrons or to I don't know anything else; You have to go and get the money where it is to meet needs already established and of which everyone knows the magnitude, or at least imagine it, since we are struggling to know it precisely. This is possible: Fabien Roussel recalled that it was done in 2011. We therefore believe that this decision must be taken in order to give ourselves additional margins. This PLFR can allow us to do so, to re-establish a tax on wealth, to go, once again, to get the money where it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u128	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 66.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u129	It aims to increase the financial transaction tax rate, the FTT, from 0.3% to 0.5%, as recommended by many associations such as Oxfam and Coalition Plus. By the way, we would align ourselves with our British partners and friends. This would result in a contribution of EUR 1 billion; Why not use it for an exceptional premium, for the benefit of precarious or exposed workers, particularly in the context of the emergency plan? As you know, many workers, who are often workers, cashiers, housekeepers, delivery workers, are now being asked for. The purpose of this amendment is to give them additional resources. The rapporteur-general, Mr Saint-Martin, is a swift man who practices scoping and overflowing with great talent; But I think it is entirely legitimate to discuss other sources of funding that would improve the contingency plan. Finally, if I may, I will come back to the research. I read in the press, like you, that some laboratories linked to CNRS, the National Centre for Scientific Research, said they had ceased their research on coronavirus since 2014. We can see that public research is being mistreated. It would have needed the amendment discussed earlier, which was intended to remove the tax advantages resulting from the research tax credit and benefiting from true private research.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u130	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u131	Mr Corbière, my answer will be somewhat similar to that I made to President Mélenchon earlier: you are putting the question of TTF on the table, what I can understand, and in doing so, you want to mobilise a tax tool to solve a health problem. But the text we are looking at is not intended to deal with it, even if, I will not stop repeating it, it represents the priority of the moment; The economic crisis is not greater than the health crisis, but it is the one that the bill aims to address. There is a certain irony in wanting to increase the FTT, as the liquidity of listed companies requires an attractive market place. Looking for recipes on this side, like the IRC, is a false good idea. Our visions are totally opposed to the TTF, although they are both legitimate, and you will understand that I am sending an opinion against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u133	Like the rapporteur-general, my answer will be similar to the previous one: we have to look at the emergency and short-term measures on the cash flow of companies contained in the bill, not to debate taxation as if it were an initial finance bill. For the same reasons as those put forward by the rapporteur-general, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u134	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u135	Once again, we can only repeat what we said this morning in the Finance Committee: on 16 March, the Head of State said that this crisis would call into question many certainties and convictions; For now, we don't see any sign of it on your side!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u136	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u137	It concerns VAT, although Mr Gérald Darmanin has earlier rejected any initiative on the subject – we know Bercy's position on this issue. You said earlier, rapporteur-general, that the issue of the emergency bill was the cash flow of companies. I agree with this objective; That is why I support the text. The amendment proposes to offer small businesses, those with a turnover of not more than EUR 1 million, the possibility of spreading the VAT payment due for March 2020. Of course, this money does not belong to them, but such a cash flow facility would be beneficial to companies at a time when they are in great difficulty or even at a standstill. The measure is of common sense and would cost the government nothing, except the management costs associated with the spread of repayments. Even apart from this proposal, Secretary of State, it would be easy for you to act on VAT credits. Indeed, in very small enterprises, the threshold for triggering repayment is 1000 euros; If the VAT credit is only a few euros below this threshold, the refund shall be made only the following month. It would be appropriate for the State to pay back this credit systematically, regardless of the amount involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u138	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u139	This will be a personal opinion, as the committee did not consider the amendment. I will repeat the words of the Minister for Public Action and Public Accounts: unlike social and tax charges, VAT, an indirect tax, depends on the activity; there is no VAT when there is no activity. The difference is big with the social and tax charges, which are due anyway but whose payment has to be postponed in order to respect the adage "no revenue, no expenses", which was formulated by the Minister of Economy and Finance on the radio this morning and to which I fully subscribe. It is important to explain to entrepreneurs why there is no deferral of VAT payments. This does not mean that businesses should not be helped in this area. The Government has spoken on this point, and perhaps the Secretary of State will go into more detail: we encourage companies subject to the simplified regime to move closer to the tax services dedicated to businesses in order to benefit from support. Situations should be assessed on a case-by-case basis and should concern only those firms experiencing major cash flow difficulties. For the reasons I have indicated, there can be no automatic postponement, as for social and tax charges, after sending a simple e-mail. The measure you are proposing is not necessary at this stage to support businesses. It is more consistent to support them through liquidity, i.e. guarantees, cash-flow measures and carry-overs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u140	The truth is not that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u142	As you will understand, I fully subscribe to the words of the Minister of Action and Public Accounts. In response to what the rapporteur-general has just said, the business tax services are obviously at the disposal of entrepreneurs to solve problems related to VAT or other tax matters. The bill already contains emergency measures allowing the postponement of social and fiscal deadlines. Their cost is very high and, as the minister has said, the state must maintain revenues that guarantee its ability to act and react. In addition, we have called on all public finance departments to show insight and benevolence in the application of the common law in terms of spreading deadlines and accompanying firms in difficulty and in good faith. We had also given the same instructions in favour of businesses that had suffered a loss of customers and sales on some weekends last winter. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u143	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u144	The amendment provides for the postponement of the payment of VAT to be paid by companies between 20 and 24 March for the month of February. Of course, there was activity in February and the cash flow difficulties are not yet felt, but they are coming. The Government could strongly support businesses by leaving them cash to meet their maturities, including the payment of salaries and some supplies. You have decided that the State will guarantee loans subscribed by companies, but, with our proposal, you would have a very easy way, immediately applicable without any particular procedure or formalism, to help them without causing a significant reduction in revenue for the State. I heard earlier from Minister Gérald Darmanin that it was not possible to allow all companies to postpone the payment of VAT: I share this position, because this tax is an essential revenue for the State, which has to bear expenses. But the amendment proposes to support companies whose turnover does not exceed EUR 1 million. The amounts involved are not necessarily high, but the measure would be a direct, strong and concrete support that could be provided tomorrow. Mr General, you said that companies were not waiting for this measure, but I can assure you that they are all asking for a postponement of VAT.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u145	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u146	This is a measure of common sense: you know very well, Mr Secretary of State, the smallest companies, TPEs and SMEs, are the most fragile, because they will not cross the barriers of banks and will not have access to bridge loans. We are, both of us, besieged with messages on the subject. By shifting the payment of VAT, the Government would send a strong signal, as it would show businesses that they understand their situation and are aware of the expenses they face. He would thus encourage them in the difficult path that awaits them in the coming weeks. This provision would not be as costly as it is said, as it is targeted at small businesses. It would, on the other hand, be a welcome signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u147	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u148	Mr Secretary of State, you have not responded to our proposal for automatic reimbursement by the administration of all VAT credits below EUR 1000. This would be a major short-term support for small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u149	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u150	Mr Forissier's precise request is technically complicated to implement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u151	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u152	Yes. On the other hand, we have given instructions to speed up the repayment of VAT and CICE credits, the competitiveness and employment tax credit, as well as all private sector debt to the public sector. We try to respond to the situation in the best way possible. We do not accept your proposal, but we do what we can, up to EUR 45 billion, you have noted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u153	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u154	It aims to remove what has been called the flat tax, which is famous in this House for the strong polemics that its institution has triggered, especially since it came at the same time as the abolition of the ISF. The abolition of the single flat-rate levy – PFU –, this unfair tax because flat-rate, would increase tax revenues. This would provide us with an additional €1.5 billion in revenue, which would allow us to finance the substantial expenditure we will be proposing tomorrow when we consider emergency bills to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic. It just seems to us that those who can pay do it. The rapporteur-general told me earlier in the Committee on Finance that the abolition of the flat tax, which would lead to the return of capital income subject to income tax and the general social contribution, would take away the necessary money from businesses. Everyone knows the rest of the recitation. We do not believe a word, because financial transactions are not used to finance salaries or collective and common needs. Under these conditions, we want to recover EUR 1.5 billion from the financial sector. You can perfectly admit that when you talk about imagining a new world, the recipes of the old world are no longer on the agenda. [[Applause]] You will not encourage anyone to invest, trade, produce, trade and pay wages by reducing taxes on financial transactions. Those who can have it have to pay, now is the time to decide!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u156	I will give the same reply as the authors of similar amendments and give an unfavorable opinion. When you look at future finance bills, you will see that I am not a general rapporteur who recites, but who observes what works and what does not work on the tax side. In 2018, the UFP reported more tax revenues than the former capital income tax system, because the tax base increased. Companies invest through tax savings, which leads to a fall in unemployment. That's the facts! And that is why I support the continuation of the PFU and am against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u158	Same opinion for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u159	I have before me two amendments, Nos 33 and 62, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u160	This amending finance bill is intended to fund emergency measures, but it also takes note of the recession in which the French economy is going to plunge. In the face of this situation, the Government calls for solidarity: we subscribe to this call and to this beautiful word. Moreover, the President of the Republic said that this crisis would inevitably lead us to question our economic model, saying that "the next day, when we win, it will not be a return to the day before". That is why we are proposing in this amendment to restore the solidarity tax on wealth in order to deal with the financial emergency in which we find ourselves and to make taxation more inclusive by ensuring that those of our fellow citizens who have contributed more. And you will not be able to tell us, as before about the flat tax, that the measure you have taken has had a positive impact on the economy, because this is not the case with the removal of the ISF. While the evaluation committee's findings on its economic effectiveness are still pending, there is agreement at this time that these effects have been neutral.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u161	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u162	In the exceptional situation in which we seek to contain the epidemic of Covid-19, we also propose to restore the well-named tax of solidarity on wealth. Even if the measure will not have an immediate effect, it will provide financial room for manoeuvre in the medium-term – we will need it – and in the long term. Thus, the millions of employees who are partially unemployed as a result of the epidemic will be able to receive up to 4.5 SMIC, instead of 84 per cent of their wages, as foreseen by the Government. This is all the more essential because the epidemic will only worsen inequalities, to the detriment of the most fragile in our society. According to the director of the analysis and forecasting department of the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques, OFCE, the measures announced by the Government "are not up to the level and do not make it possible to ensure that there will be no dismissals or bankruptcies. But the only reasonable prospect is to increase spending! " By accepting our amendment, the Government would allow workers who are partially unemployed to keep up to 4.5 SMICs a wage that would allow them to live in dignity despite very difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u163	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u164	Disadvantaged for the reasons previously set out regarding the UFP and the IRC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u165	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u166	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u167	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u168	I would like to clarify and issue an injunction – I do not know what term to use in order not to shock. Clarification, first. If the flat tax pays more than the previous scheme, it is for a very simple reason: it is easier for those with the highest income to pay in income from capital than to do so by other forms of income, in particular wages. In this sense, there is nothing more than a misappropriation of procedure. Then, and without wishing to argue with anyone, in the moment we are, we need egalitarian signals, which show the country that everyone is hand-in-hand, that everyone is making an effort. You have abrogated the ISF for reasons that you believe are right; But, in the exceptional period we are living in, we need everything that is possible to take – without killing people, of course – to contribute to the public good and to feed public finances for the benefit of the hospital, masks, etc. That is why the ISF must be re-established for the duration of the crisis. And let us not be told that those who would have to pay such a tax would be deterred from investing or paying wages! The State needs to fill in its caisses; He's been impoverished. Finally, the rapporteur-general will not be able to answer me, but perhaps the Secretary of State will finally do so on behalf of the Government: who has decided, and why, that the World Health Organization's injunction on testing would not apply? We are prepared to hear arguments in support of this decision; There is still a need for some. We were told this morning that this was not a good idea; WHO believes that it does. What are the reasons that allow us, French, to think that no? Why do we not apply this injunction to our people – including ourselves, Members of Parliament, who may become dangerous when we leave the House? Of course, it has been disinfected and all precautions have been taken, but there is no 100% certainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u169	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u170	The Government announced that, beyond the solidarity fund, the State would not pay for operating losses, but that it would be necessary to "see how insurers can also participate, in solidarity, in business support". In our view, a simple invitation to do so would not suffice: it does not do the trick, as they say at home. While we are in the process of deciding on the implementation of public insurance schemes, private insurance must also be used in the face of the major risk to which we are exposed. As was done in 2011 following another period of crisis, this amendment therefore tends to introduce an exceptional tax on the insurance capitalisation reserve, intended to abound the solidarity fund, which is currently insufficient. We were told earlier that such a return of money would not be immediately effective and that it was therefore not an emergency measure. But everything that can be done right now will free up the necessary initiatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u172	I thank Mr Dharréville and the entire Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for having tabled this amendment, which allows us to discuss the role that insurers can play in the current crisis. I do not believe that the 10% tax should be resurrected in 2011-12. There is a need for further discussion with insurance companies in order to determine how they could accompany our companies in an exceptional situation of a type that they generally do not cover, or very little. I share your analysis of the problem, my dear colleague, but it is not in my culture to tax a sector to make it contribute; On the other hand, some companies may have to be led to revise their doctrine. Since the beginning of the crisis, discussions have taken place between the Government and the insurers, who are involved in the effort; I agree with you that this contribution is unclear and unreadable, but we could get more information, now or in the coming days, on how insurers are likely to become a key player in business support in the current context of a health disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u174	Disadvantaged, for reasons that have been set out in connection with other amendments. The Government, through Bruno Le Maire and Agnes Pannier-Runacher, is in discussion with the insurance sector so that it can take part in the solidarity effort with all the actors affected by the crisis that we are going through. Insurers will have to be responsive and very caring in the period that begins. If it is too early to make a precise and comprehensive assessment, the discussion, I repeat, is open.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u175	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u176	It is clear that insurers need to be more clearly committed: today they are not heard to say anything, unlike banks. A lot of ideas are emerging about this. Damien Abad, Christian Jacob and I have tabled a proposal for a law on the state of health disaster, on the model of the state of natural disaster, except that this one concerns only material damage, whereas here it is operating losses that companies suffer. We have also been the subject of an amendment to this text. The principle would be the same as that of the Barnier Fund, based on tax participation and a State budget allocation, in addition to the contribution of insurers. This is a complete system, which is not entirely a matter of urgency as the phenomenon has already occurred. In any case, it is important to be very serious in this case: it is important to check the contribution that insurers can make and which could be very extensive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u177	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u178	The subject is recurrent: all companies ask us to know if they are insured; Clearly, they are not; There is therefore a legal vacuum. But let us not forget that if catering or hotel companies are penalized, it is because the Government has decided to discontinue their activity: it is a decision of the State that prevents them from working, deprives them of resources, and the stock they had bought is lost. The responsibility of the State is therefore incurred, even if it can be understood that it has taken this decision. These traders will have to be compensated in one way or another, because they are not responsible for the situation. Of course, insurers must also contribute. This may require a change in the law, as suggested by President Woerth. In a natural disaster, insurance plays a role; it was not planned during a health disaster; This will have to be remedied for the future. But an intermediate solution must also be found quickly to respond to the current emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u179	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u180	You say, Mr. Secretary of State, that the Government has made contact with the leaders of the insurance sector; I am happy to believe you, and this is absolutely necessary. But for me, as for President Woerth, so far, it is radio silence: I have not heard the insurers speak about what is happening. However, the main risk to which our companies and society are exposed in the current period is that, since all the others are likely to lose proportionately in importance – even if it should be verified through a more in-depth analysis. Persons have signed insurance contracts, funds have been collected; We must make them useful to what is most essential. We could decide to do so today; After all, if this was implemented in 2011, it would not be aberrant to start again in the period we are living in. As for the state of health disaster, I too am in favour of prompt consideration of public policy measures to ensure that it is recognized and that insurance is held accountable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u181	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u182	I associate myself with everything that has just been said. The concern expressed by small businesses and small businesses is about operating losses, even more so than income losses. The fact that neither the insurance nor the government system is taking care of these losses gives rise to the greatest concern, which I believe is essential to calm as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u183	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u184	I associate myself with what has just been said: As I have already explained during the question-and-answer session to the Government this morning and earlier this afternoon, I was alerted by the Béziers Commercial Court and many Dickerro business leaders about the obstacle they encountered in trying to operate the lost operating insurance to overcome this crisis: almost all contracts exclude the epidemic event. A remedy would not have much impact on government finances: perhaps it is an effort to ask insurers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u185	I have before me two amendments, Nos 7 and 105, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u186	It was deposited by Mansour Kamardine and aims to exempt certain goods and materials which could provide health security for health professionals and the population in the Overseas Territories until 31 December 2020. Mr. Kamardine is a Member of Parliament for Mayotte; he explains in the summary statement that an epidemic of dengue is currently taking place: the needs are significant and this exemption will allow the various structures to acquire additional equipment and equipment. During the discussion in the Finance Committee, this amendment was withdrawn, because we were informed that the Government would table another one, which we will find out.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u187	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 105.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u188	As has just been said, it aims to establish a list of imports and supplies of goods necessary for relief to the people, the restoration of the continuity of public services and public infrastructure, which will be exempt from import taxes, customs duties, the granting of sea rights, running rights and excise taxes from the granting of sea rights. It is a question of responding to the concerns expressed by the signatories of the previous amendment. We therefore call for its withdrawal in favour of the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u189	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u190	I will be brief, since we have already had this discussion in the Committee on Finance. I share the concern to particularly accompany the ultramarine territories in this atypical period, since they are particularly affected, in particular by transport problems. The Government's amendment is timely and I therefore express a favourable opinion; its adoption would satisfy Amendment No 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u191	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u192	On the form, I would like to point out that the Government has an unfortunate tendency, even in times of emergency, to crush the opposition's amendments. There was nothing to prevent you from under-amending Amendment No 7: what a strange idea to come up with your amendment and declare the discussion finished! You proceed quite systematically in this way, it's rather curious. The same applies to the committee that we have proposed to establish. You answered: "No, stop, we will rewrite your measure, it will be better written. Experience shows that this is not necessarily the case: I don't understand why you're playing this game.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u193	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u194	I want to reply to the chairman of the Committee on Finance, and reassure him: under no circumstances is it a game, nor is it a desire to be disdainful of anyone. In the case of this text, we are working under conditions of urgency such that we have preferred a global writing. I hear the remark that you made, we will be careful for future texts to show us less "crushing", if you wish. In the meantime, be lenient, because of the urgency in which we work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u195	That's positive!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u196	We did well to come!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u197	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u198	I am particularly concerned about the Government's amendment. I quote the summary statement: "There can be no compensation for the resources of the communities. Such resources were not intended for the communities, so they are not deprived of them. Mr Secretary of State, the loss of revenue does exist, since the imports mentioned in your amendment are not solely related to the state of health disaster. So your argument seems to me to be highly technocratic, forgive me for the expression. Mr Kamardine's amendment was being handled. Can you tell us what the loss of revenue will be?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u199	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u200	The ultramarine deputies of the Democratic and Republican Left Group alerted the Government to the health situation in the overseas territories and departments. Hospitals are not able to cope with an acute crisis and manage an epidemic in Stage 3. City medicine would also be overwhelmed – I would remind you that Guyana and Mayotte are the largest medical deserts in France, which is why the extension of containment measures to overseas has been approved. Similarly, specific provisions must accompany this general mobilization: the elected representatives draw up proposals according to the needs of their territory. For example, La Réunion is experiencing a recurring problem with the stock of medicines: the proposal to extend to laboratories and their depositaries the obligation to build up stocks of medicines in advance to La Réunion has been formulated. Consideration must be given to the particular situation in the Overseas Territories, particularly with regard to hospitals, which would not be able to manage a major epidemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u201	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u202	I would like to clarify the period of exemption: Mr Mansour Kamardine's amendment proposes that it last until 31 December 2020, while your amendment limits the period of the coronavirus crisis. However, if we take into account the delays in the delivery of goods and the difficulties in supplying equipment and equipment, it would be more appropriate to apply the measure until 31 December 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u203	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u204	We have planned a lot of expenses: we need a lot of revenue. The Group of the European People's Party first proposed that we take them where we think there is something to take: among those who have the most. The use of external public financing is also possible, in this case through the European Central Bank. The Commission has decided to spend EUR 750 billion on the purchase of debt securities from private banks. Once again, the European Central Bank buys uncertain paper and provides fresh money to banks so that they can lend. The consequence will be a general slowdown, as it is an extremely slow circuit. How do we know, as we know that part of this amount will disappear? Because we've already experienced it. In 18 or 19 months, the Central Bank distributed the equivalent of France's GDP to all private banks, already to buy them debt securities. If this money had financed production, at EUR 85 billion per month, there would have been an inflationary effect, provisional, as long as the material counterpart was produced. But nothing happened. After the shock that the stock exchanges have just experienced, we are sure that the banks, in private European individuals, bound to the Basel III agreements, which impose bank reserves equivalent to 7% of the stocks, will naturally restore the balance of their accounts with this money, which will not arrive in the accounts of individuals or companies. As far as States are concerned, the 3% deficit rule was lifted all of a sudden, which shows that it did not have the magic virtues that were lent to it. Our country needs money. For lack of money we are led to make decisions that are not the right ones. Less than a quarter of an hour ago, the Fédération des syndicats pharmaciques de France announced that the masks delivered did not match the model requested. And so on: you'll see how margin pruning prevents action from being effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u205	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u206	With regard to Article 1, I would like to make a number of points. First, the estimate of revenue losses, accepting the assumption of a 1% drop in domestic product: can you explain why the amount of the domestic consumption tax revenue on energy products – ICTPE – would be stable? The Explanatory Memorandum puts forward the argument of the division of the ICTPE between the State and local authorities. Can you tell us whether or not it will fall overall, and how the share that belongs to the state would continue? Secondly, you argue that the crisis would have no impact on the annex budget "Air control and operation". It is a former air transport rapporteur who is asking you: I have seen that you have tabled an amendment of considerable scope, of which we were not aware during the examination in the Committee on Finance. It envisages approximately €450 million in revenue losses. I told colleagues that there would be at least 200 or 300 million losses, your estimate is 450 million, financed simply by an increase in debt. It is going from 50 million to 500 million, according to your amendment No 103. It's huge: it means we're financing the operation on credit. We will return to that earlier, since a specific debt is assigned to air traffic control. Thirdly, we have given up paying EUR 2 billion to the Social Debt Depreciation Fund – CADES – as we have done annually for years: the payment is cancelled. Could you explain these three points to us? These are still important elements, which do not concern small sums.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u207	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u208	Article 1 provides an opportunity to ask us about your assessment of the consequences of the crisis. We cannot measure them precisely today, however, some economists indicate that they will be more expensive than the forecasts you issued, especially since the second half of the year will not make it possible to catch up with what happens in the first half of the year. I would therefore like to know whether the Government can tell us more precisely on what assumptions it is working on and what developments it is planning. In the flow of decisions made as a result of the events, I want to underline the wisdom shown by the abandonment of planned privatisations, in particular that of Paris Airports. The question now is who is going to pay? That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has put forward proposals for new resources. Who will pay the consequences of the crisis and the cost of the expenses necessary to overcome it? It will take time to absorb this shock, and it deserves to be programmed. The maintenance of our system of social protection, rights and public services will be decisive for our society to resist and project itself in the future. Finally, I believe that there should be no profitors. Speculators must be kept out of all sectors, including banking. In our view, states need to be able to finance themselves directly from central banks, in order to ameliorate the shock that we are going to experience.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u209	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u210	Article 1 concerns the general balance of the budget. We need additional funding of EUR 15.4 billion and the chosen instrument is the issuance of fixed-rate Treasury bills. It seems to me that this is a good financing instrument, because it is sure. First, the issue of these vouchers is not a problem, given the quality of the French signature. Secondly, it is a means of economic financing, because interest rates are very low or even negative, and they are not expected to go back. Finally, it is a flexible instrument adapted to the financing of hazards. And if we have additional funding needs, it is this type of instrument that is likely to be again preferred. In this regard, I would like to make a request: can we have a precise follow-up of our funding needs and how they will have been met during this financial crisis, which may lead the Government to introduce another amending finance bill?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u211	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u212	I would like to take the opportunity of the discussion on this article to draw the Government's attention to two points on which we have not received an answer. But I think it is important to bring some. The first point concerns companies that have implemented a safeguard plan or are in a situation of judicial reorganization – I am not talking about liquidations. They are companies that try to leave and benefit from support; However, I have the impression that they are kept away from the arrangements provided for in the emergency plan. Could you give us any further information on the matter? In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if a company, because of the cash flow difficulties it faces, has to file the balance sheet and launch a safeguard plan or, above all, a judicial reorganization procedure, this is the subject of legal publicity, which may be a problem for the resumption of its activity, as long as it amounts to marking it with red iron – I imagine you see what I want to talk about. The second point relates to rents. We understand that there are ongoing negotiations between the Government, the administration and major public or private donors. However, it happens that many donors are former artisans or former traders who have kept the premises in which they served during their professional life and who rent them, often for modest sums – this is the case in my city in particular. However, this is an essential part of their income and it is not clear how, without means of compensation, they could postpone the rents they receive from traders or artisans who rent their business premises. This is a real problem, which concerns very many people. Those who receive small retirement pensions and rely on the proceeds of these leases are very concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u213	Mr Ludovic Pajot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u214	The epidemic of coronavirus causes a major health crisis whose effects are and will be multiple. The priority, in all circumstances, remains, I would like to remind you, the preservation of the health of our compatriots. The role of the State is to protect its citizens and the first of the protections must be that of their lives. I would like to pay tribute here to the staff involved, and in the first place to the health workers who are dealing with this crisis. Beyond these public health imperatives, the economic life of the country must also be preserved – at least what is essential. The Covid-19 crisis is a health crisis whose effects are multiplied as a result of wild globalization and total free trade. A few weeks ago, the Government mocked Marine Le Pen, which stressed the need for borders and I am pleased with the President of the Republic's turn on this issue and the closure of borders. It is also in these moments that the benefits of national protection, the role of the State in managing the crisis and the need for real sovereignty, particularly in the pharmaceutical industry or the production of masks, are rediscovered. We are thus faced with a shortage of hydro-alcoholic masks and gels for those of our compatriots who must continue to work but cannot protect themselves – I am thinking in particular of health care workers or police officers. The role of the State is above all to assist the most fragile, both in health and in economic matters. Our SMEs, TPEs and independents are currently facing the greatest difficulties due to the understandable cessation of many activities. It is imperative that they be the first beneficiaries of massive State aid in order to prevent them from being forced to cease any activity, which would have dramatic consequences. We are facing an unprecedented situation. The French are worried and expect strong answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u215	[[Sentiment]] Colleagues, we have to decide whether we are doing an extension. We still have 58 amendments to consider, which would lead us to adjourn the sitting at around 9 p.m., provided that the pace is speeded up. For my part, I think that we have already dealt with many important issues in this first part, but of course I would not like to undermine the democratic debate. What do you think? Are you ready to finish our long-term work? It was therefore so decided. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 103.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u216	This amendment, referred to by Mr de Courson, seeks to amend the balancing article to take account of the decrease in revenue from the Annex budget for air control and operation. This amounts to EUR 450 million – which is important. It is a question of taking into account the real collapse of activity during the crisis period linked to the epidemic without us having to come back on it all the time – everyone knows the conditions under which this near-stopping of activity occurs. We rely on a first forecast of just over a month's maturity. I can no longer be assertive at this stage; All I can say is that the Agence France Trésor would proceed with this advance so that there is in the budget of the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation – DGAC – enough to pay salaries and current expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u218	We understand the meaning of this amendment. The annex budget "Air control and operation" responds to a particular budget operation. DGAC is responsible for this. What is happening, from an economic point of view, for airlines explains the decrease in revenue from this budget. This is an amendment of consistency which, if adopted, will have an impact on the deficit. That seems necessary to me. I believe that, in the second part, the Government will present another amendment in order to support this sector, which is in a critical state. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u219	Have we answered your question, Mr. de Courson?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u220	Yes, if only the revenue from the annex budget amounts – I am talking about memory – to some EUR 1.2 billion. This means that one third of the revenue would be lost. This therefore represents a much longer period than a month; Rather, it would be three to four months – but this is only a technical observation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u221	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u222	You're right, Mr. de Courson. If we hope that this period will be as short as possible, first of all we find it difficult to control the epidemic in France today, then we know that at the international level it is likely to last much longer, depending on the regions of the world that will be affected. That's why we're taking precautions. If I dared, I would even say that we are afraid that this is not enough and that we need to come back to it at some point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u223	I put to the vote the whole of the first part of the amending finance bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u224	We are looking at the second part of the Finance Amendment Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u225	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u226	I want to stress the importance of this article, particularly for employees and companies. The announcements that have been made have already been heard since, in my constituency, we have feedback on this article and the expectations it raises. I would point out that it is a matter of creating massive support schemes for both employees and businesses, including employment support, a strengthening of the partial unemployment scheme to the tune of EUR 8 billion, covering some 400,000 employees already identified, as well as the creation of a solidarity fund for enterprises of EUR 1 billion, particularly for SMEs, micro-enterprises and self-employed people. This is very important because these companies are destabilized by the current health crisis; It is imperative that the State accompany them to deal with them. However, they still have concerns, which seem legitimate given the uncertainties over the coming weeks. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the work of local governments and state officials; I am thinking in particular of the DIRECCTE, who are carrying out important information work with companies to inform them of the mechanisms put in place by the Government to accompany them. This dynamic of confidence and information must be extended so that everyone can take advantage of it and the health crisis does not aggravate the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u227	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u228	Article 2 provides for the opening of commitment authorisations and additional payment appropriations. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a few questions, particularly about the solidarity fund. The first concerns the situation of corporate representatives, i.e. presidents of SAS, simplified share companies, majority or minority managers of SARL, limited liability companies, and collaborating spouses. These persons do not benefit from the partial unemployment scheme. So it seems there's a "hole in the racket." Could you tell us if a support device is provided for them? The second question concerns the postponement of the deadlines for the payment of expenses by self-employed workers – TNS – which was decided by the USSRAF and which will be carried out automatically. What about the co-workers, who are not TNS in the strict sense? Will they be entitled to an automatic carry-over of maturities? The matter remains open; No one today can answer that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u229	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u230	Would it be possible, Mr Minister, to have an explanation of the EUR 5.5 billion to finance the State contribution to the partial unemployment scheme? In the Government's submission, it is stated that this amount corresponds to an estimate of the volume of compensated hours up to 15 per cent of the hours worked for a period of two months. Could you tell us how you chose these two values: 15% and two months? On the other hand, this is only part of the financing of the scheme. It is indicated that €2.750 billion will be financed by Unédic. The Unédic is a joint body. Does this mean that an agreement has been reached with the social partners? In addition, I repeat my question which you did not answer earlier: how will such a sum be financed, since Unédic is in deficit and this amount is nevertheless credited with guarantees given by the State?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u231	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u232	By this amendment, we propose the creation of a programme entitled "Emergency protection: an employee, a mask". This is a way for us to ask for truly important sums of money to be devoted to health security issues. This is essential for employees who continue to work in our country and who often go to work with the belly ball. This allows me to address the primary issue of generalized screening. I repeat what the Director General of WHO said: "We have a simple message for all countries: test, test, test. "You can't fight a blindfolded fire. And we can't fight this pandemic if we don't know who's infected with the virus. I do not understand why the financial means are still not available to ensure the widespread screening that would allow us to live up to the pandemic. As for the question of masks, I would like to read to you the testimony of a midwife, Viviane. She writes: "I am a midwife and I want to cry. Pregnant women are out of work and that's very good, except that caregivers must continue to work, even if they are pregnant. I feel like we're being sacrificed. We, as midwives, are told to put only simple masks, and not FFP2, when we see patients diagnosed positive for VOCID-19. There is no test available for us, so we don't know if we are infected or not. » In addition, Jean-Luc Mélenchon mentioned it a few moments ago, the Fédération des syndicats pharmaciques de France denounces a state scandal, because the masks that were delivered to them are not FFP2, i.e. masks that really protect. I would like to draw the Government's attention to this issue, because creating such a disorder will be a problem: it will prevent the national cohesion that we absolutely need to cope with the crisis. We must therefore devote the necessary resources to masks and tests.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u233	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u234	Article 2 is the subject of numerous appropriations amendments. I'll say two things. First of all, I would like to point out that it is useful and beneficial for Parliament that all the appropriations should be put together in a new mission composed of two programmes, because this will enable them to be properly monitored. We will then see what evaluation and monitoring tools Parliament will have put in place, but the dispersal of appropriations in various missions and programmes would have made the contingency plan absolutely unreadable. I am also committed to maintaining the appropriations as proposed in the draft law on amending finance – i.e. EUR 750 million for the programme "Solidarity Fund for companies following the health crisis" and EUR 5.5 billion allocated by the State to support partial activity. I hope that we will stay on these lines, even if we may re-evaluate these amounts in the context of a forthcoming collective budget. Any amendment to change these lines of appropriations – I know that the Constitution requires you to do so – will therefore be the subject of an unfavorable opinion, which I will present quite quickly. Many of these amendments are appeal amendments, which will allow Members to engage in discussions with the Government on sectoral issues – for example, culture. As for me, I shall confine myself, without you having to see any wish to undermine the debate, to simply deliver an opinion which is unfavourable to all the amendments to the appropriations, for the reasons I have just outlined and for the sake of speed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u235	Thank you for this generic review. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u236	He's unfavorable. I also want to answer the questions that have been asked about the solidarity fund and partial unemployment. The solidarity fund, first of all, is intended for companies and not for employees, who benefit from other provisions. Therefore, whether or not to be a collaborating spouse does not change anything, since the money is paid to the company as a legal structure. The fund is also reserved for companies with a turnover of less than EUR 1 million: the scheme is voluntary for small entrepreneurs. Other larger companies may have alternative safety nets and solutions. Part of the funds will be paid automatically, to all companies that have had to close because of the health safety rules that we have introduced. Bars, restaurants or gathering places have closed: these will automatically be eligible for the solidarity fund, because they have no other solution: because of their closure, they no longer have customers or turnover. We will therefore guarantee them a safety net. We also decided to extend the scheme to all companies that lost 70% of their sales between March 2019 and March 2020. I want to clarify, as my mobile phone is flooded every day with hundreds of messages from entrepreneurs – from Evreux or elsewhere – asking me, for example, whether a 66% drop in turnover will be taken care of, that we will interpret this second criterion flexibly. The first floor of the solidarity fund will take the form of an automatic flat-rate allowance of 1500 euros, which will be paid by the Directorate-General for Public Finance to eligible entrepreneurs, probably at the beginning of April – the time to deploy the scheme, which I would remind you will concern hundreds of thousands of companies, which implies a certain heaviness. Then all requests from entrepreneurs who, having lost 70, 75, or 80% of their turnover, will not be able to settle for 1500 euros and will need a higher sum – 3000, 4000 or 5000 euros. First of all, these entrepreneurs will be able, I repeat, to apply for credit from Bpifrance, the public investment bank, whose primary purpose is to support small businesses. I would remind you that we have increased the guarantee of the loans granted by Bpifrance from 40 % to 90 %. The State thus covers almost all the credits granted to small entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs will also be able to benefit from an amount from the Solidarity Fund for which we have not set a ceiling. The files will be reviewed at the national and regional levels. At the national level, François Werner was appointed responsible for the management and monitoring of the solidarity fund. At the regional level, Renaud Muselier, president of the Association des régions de France, which currently manages the fund, will appoint one person to ensure the technical follow-up and investigate the thousands of cases – because there will be thousands of them – of small entrepreneurs who will want to benefit from the solidarity fund because they cannot get away with it. I repeat, we will be flexible and understanding in interpreting the criteria for access to the fund. Finally, because we are obviously forced to adapt the scheme constantly, I would like to point out a last very important point, which has been the subject of many increases since 48 hours: the liberal professions will be eligible for the fund. I do not, of course, refer here to the very large law firms: we will ensure that the fund supports the most modest ones. I will refer again to the example of a physiotherapist working in Mulhouse who, no longer having any activity, decides to help voluntarily in the hospital, which is facing an extraordinarily violent crisis and needs multiple arms and help: it is perfectly legitimate that this physiotherapist, exercising a liberal profession and receiving modest incomes, should benefit from the national solidarity fund. With regard to partial unemployment, I would like to point out that, until now, the existing scheme only reimburses the head of the enterprise for the wages paid up to the level of the SMIC: beyond that, everything remains at his expense. Thus, when a businessman was confronted with a sharp drop in orders and activity, he was in no way encouraged to put his employees into partial unemployment because he was losing a lot of money. What was he doing then? We found it in 2008: he fired – no gaiety of heart, but because he had no choice. Partial unemployment would have cost him too much because it would have caused him, in response to the loss of turnover and orders, a particularly heavy financial burden for all wages above SMIC. We wanted to draw the consequences of the mistake – which was not committed in 2008 by the then government, but many years ago – of defining a partial unemployment scheme covering too few employees. We have therefore decided to reimburse entrepreneurs up to 4.5 SMIC – an amount that we believe will allow us to cover the vast majority of French employees. The reimbursement will be in full for salaries below SMIC. In addition, it will represent 70 per cent of gross wages and 84 per cent of net wages. Each situation will be studied with great attention. I am fully aware that an employee receiving compensation equal to twice the SMIC, if he receives only 84% of his net salary, will suffer a loss of purchasing power of 16%. We are aware of the effort required. This solution, however, seems to me the least bad – in any case, the most protective of the economic vitality of our country and of the strength of companies: the talents, the training, the qualifications and the employees themselves. You are also asking me about the calculation that led us to retain a volume of hours to compensate for 15% of the hours worked. First of all, 40% of the 25 million employees are on telework – I would like to pay tribute to this very important proportion. However, in the word "telework", there is "work": I guarantee you that, according to all the returns of companies brought to my knowledge, employees in telework work hard, under complicated conditions. It is certainly less easy to work at home, sometimes surrounded by children who can be a distraction, rather than in a work environment. We then estimate that about 45% of employees will continue to work, in order to ensure the economic continuity that I have widely mentioned in recent hours. As a result, 15 per cent of employees are subject to partial unemployment. I will be very clear with you, Charles de Courson: we have of course formulated these estimates without having precise indications, trying to be as honest and sincere as possible. Perhaps they will be denied by reality. Perhaps the proportion of employees in partial unemployment will reach 20% rather than 15%. We will adjust the device to the reality of situations. As for the arrangements for taking over, we have chosen the existing distribution key: two thirds will be financed by the State and one third by Unédic. It seems wise to me, in an emergency situation, which requires rapid action, to keep the distribution keys already applied. That is what we have decided to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u237	[[Sentiment]] Thank you, Minister, for covering many of the issues that have been the subject of several amendments. In order to organise the debates effectively, and MM. the minister and the rapporteur-general having covered many of the issues dealt with in Article 2, I propose that you quickly introduce each of your amendments, before we discuss them in a comprehensive manner, as we would do in the context of a joint debate. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u238	It concerns the EUR 2 billion of funds allocated to the hospital. This issue was discussed at length earlier and Mr Dussopt replied to us on this point. I would nevertheless like to insist – I am aware of repeating myself, but the stakes seem serious – on the need to hire in the hospital. You told us, Mr. Secretary of State, that caregivers who could be recruited were identified, but that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health had not made any specific requests for appropriations for hiring. As a result of this response, I inquired: there are obviously many requests for hires, which seem to have been lost in the meanderings of the administration. We understand that the EUR 2 billion you are referring to is for the purchase of equipment and the payment of daily allowances. I stress that hiring is necessary and that it must be done now, not in several months' time. Could you give us any further details on this point? That is the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u239	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u240	It aims to double the amount allocated to the Solidarity Fund. I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Economy and Finance, who referred to physiotherapists, to raise an issue that I have not been able to address before. I am concerned about the paramedical branch of private institutions, whether they are medical assistants such as physiotherapists and speech therapists or unconventional professionals, governed by an order – I am thinking for example of osteopaths – or not, like occupational therapists. All these self-employed workers can no longer accommodate patients in their offices, as safety instructions are very strict and they do not have the masks and hydro-alcoholic solutions they should have access to. As a result, they lose 90, or even 95 per cent of their activity. However, they were clearly indicated that they would not be eligible for the National Solidarity Fund, because the professions they perform are not mentioned in the decree of 14 March. My question is therefore simple: will these independents be eligible for the solidarity fund?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u241	Mr Stéphane Peu, in support of Amendment No. 93, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u242	I will endeavour to be part of the process that you have proposed, Mr. Chairman, and will defend this appeal amendment quickly. It aims to propose the creation, in addition to the solidarity fund provided for in the draft law on amending finance – which constitutes a step forward – of a compensation fund enabling the TPE-SME to deal with the consequences of the epidemic, in particular with a view to a recovery that is less rapid than expected. I want to go back to one aspect of the presentation by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, who referred to partial unemployment. I hear what you're saying: 84% of the salary is better than nothing. That's for sure. However, partial unemployment mainly affects employees in enterprises which have been forced to close down, in particular non-essential businesses, many of which receive small wages and are women. In catering and trade, these employees often work overtime or even receive tips. Tomorrow, not only will they no longer have any tips or extra hours, but their net income, often only slightly higher than SMIC, will be reduced by 15%. In my constituency, many employees who earn a net salary of between 1600 and 1800 euros will lose 200 to 300 euros – that is, making the difference between survival and living. This is the case with the settlement of their rents or the drafts of their consumer borrowings. Given the current circumstances, could you guarantee 100% of the net salary – not to mention overtime and tips that will not be on the job? Otherwise, could these employees benefit from conditions similar to those offered to companies in respect of payment of rents and drafts? We must deal now with this real social issue: we will regret not having done so when it is too late.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u243	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 28 and 40. I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u244	It aims to abound by EUR 500 million the solidarity fund for businesses, as the EUR 1500 aid allocated to the smallest of them will not enable them to overcome the current crisis. Listening to you, minister, I feel either that you misunderstand or that you misunderstood our remarks this morning. You have just explained that the fund would support all entrepreneurs, and that those who would have lost 70% of their turnover could ask for additional assistance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u245	That's not what I said.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u246	That's not what we initially understood. Who is eligible for this scheme, and how? If the EUR 1500 aid is reserved for companies which have lost 70% of their turnover, we consider it insufficient and will not allow them to get away with it. That is why we propose to abound the EUR 500 million solidarity fund. Will private hospitals also be covered by the €2 billion plan for hospitals? Today, these institutions are almost requisitioned by the public hospital to support it in the fight against the Covid-19. As a result, they can no longer perform the surgical acts that provide them with revenue, and may be forced to terminate, when we need health personnel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u247	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u248	If I understand correctly, the Solidarity Fund is a kind of "swiss knife" through which you will grant grants rather than loans, knowing that the aid of 1500 euros will, it seems to me, be monthly, that it will concern companies or independents, and that its amount can be increased if necessary – but under what conditions? In concrete terms, to whom should entrepreneurs address themselves? They won't contact Renaud Muselier! In short, I do not question your intention, but all this lacks clarity. I note that other instruments are provided for, particularly in the area of bank guarantees. Nevertheless, the arrangements for very small enterprises are not very clear. I also understand that Bpifrance will provide loans. The whole system deserves clarification. In addition, there is a risk that the inflow of requests will increase the number of services, while, as a matter of principle, the files will have to be managed fairly quickly – especially those addressed to the Solidarity Fund. Can you guarantee that they will be dealt with in an extremely tight time frame, and that the funds will be provided just as quickly to businesses and self-employed people who need them? By our amendment, we propose to lower the criterion of taking over small businesses from 70% to 50% of turnover loss between March 2019 and March 2020. Again, I recognize your goodwill, but the flexibility you want to demonstrate does not help to clarify the rules. You say that in good intelligence, an entrepreneur who has lost 68% of his turnover – not 70% – will be covered, but the law is the law: if it sets a threshold of 70%, the agents who will investigate the files will strictly apply it. By keeping a threshold of 50%, we would be sure to cover the companies that suffer the biggest loss of turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u249	I have before me two amendments, Nos 75 and 76, which can be presented together. Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u250	These two appeal amendments aim to abound EUR 500 million in the actions of programme 356 "Supporting the exceptional scheme of partial unemployment following the health crisis", which would bring it to EUR 6 billion, and to abound by EUR 250 million the appropriations of action 01 of programme 357 "Solidarity fund for businesses following the health crisis", which would bring it to EUR 1 billion. In fact, the confinement decided at the beginning of the week will lead to a marked deterioration in the situation of companies, especially the smallest ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u251	I have before me three amendments, Nos 86, 88 and 95, which can be presented together. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u252	Amendment No 86 is intended to move EUR 50 million towards action to combat domestic violence. As Secretary of State Marlène Schiappa explained a few days ago, confinement could increase the risk of such violence. For its part, Amendment No 88 aims to move EUR 50 million of funds to support food aid associations, which are very mobilised and whose volunteers are confined. Finally, Amendment No 95 aims to support bookstores, particularly independent ones, which have closed their doors as a precautionary measure and which are even more violently competed with platforms such as Amazon, which maintain deliveries. We propose to increase the appropriations allocated to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u253	I have before me two amendments, Nos 27 and 34, which can be presented together. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u254	The first of these amendments aims to create a support fund for live entertainment, with €20 million, in a context where all cinemas and theatres have had to close their doors. The second amendment, No 34, aims to strengthen the resources devoted to the day before and to health safety. The draft finance law for 2020 spent only €1.61 million on this action, although it pursues key objectives: to organise health watch and vigilance, to develop actions to prevent infectious risks, and to conduct a policy to prepare for health crises. In the current context, we believe that it is necessary to increase the appropriations dedicated to action 01 "Health watch and safety" of programme 204 "Prevention, health security and care provision" of the "Health" mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u255	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor to support Amendment No. 100. I would point out that in our current configuration, an amendment whose signatories are absent can be defended by any member of their group.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u256	Amendment No 100 is intended to create a support fund or aid fund to compensate public health-care workers for all public and similar functions. The funds thus released must fully or partially compensate for the default day established by the Finance Act for 2018. These funds will be mobilised from programme 304 "Social inclusion and protection of persons" and its action 11 "Activity premium and other mechanisms contributing to the fight against poverty".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u257	Mr rapporteur-general, you have already said what the committee's opinion on this series of amendments would be, but perhaps you would like to provide further answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u258	I agree with all of these amendments, for the reasons I have already explained.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u259	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u260	We do not favour it, because we share the rapporteur-general's desire not to change the allocation of appropriations. However, we consider it useful to make amendments to create support programmes for women at risk of spousal violence increased by confinement, to bookstores – which were the subject of a communication from the Minister of Culture this morning – or to solidarity associations. They recall all the attention we need to pay to these issues, and I would like to assure you that all members and departments of the Government are mobilizing all the means of common law to respond to them. Without changing the appropriations, we are making every effort to achieve this, sector by sector, and each of my colleagues has made commitments in the areas that fall within his competence. On the other hand, Amendment No. 100 by Mrs Émilie Cariou and Mrs Delphine Bagarry, concerning the compensation of so-called "carried" public servants – the term is hardly appropriate – seems to us to be able to be withdrawn, for two reasons. First of all, the EUR 2 billion aid plan, which we have already discussed at length, provides for a mechanism to recognise the commitment of staff. The Minister of Public Action and Accounts has today stated that discussions are under way within the Government with a view to improving the careers of hospital workers. It is in this context that this subject deserves to be dealt with, rather than through an amendment. The second reason is because of the waiting days — and I will answer Mrs Pires Beaune's question in that regard. Prior to the outbreak of the epidemic crisis, the scheme provided for one day of public service failure and three days of private sector failure in the event of a cessation of illness. We were faced with a new situation as early as the end of January, since we asked public officials to stop working either to look after their children confined or deprived of class, or because they had themselves been exposed to a risk of contamination and had to confide. A decree of 31 January provides that in the event of confinement, whatever the reason, a stoppage of work – not a stoppage of illness – is issued by the doctor-counsel of the regional health agency, with an exemption from waiting days. We have extended this scheme to the fragile public, i.e. public officials and private sector employees who suffer from long-term pathology or have a medical history that makes them potentially at risk. Therefore, their confinement, before they are declared sick – we hope they will never be – is not accompanied by a waiting period. In the public sector, where the procedure for issuing a stoppage of work by the RSA medical consultant does not exist, we have dealt with the problem with special leave of absence. Contrary to what is sometimes said or perceived, there is equal treatment between the public and private sectors: in the private sector, if you are confined, whatever the reason for confinement – precaution, child care, etc. – the RSA medical advisor will issue you a work stoppage and the waiting period is not applied to you; in the public sector, if you are confined – and the reasons are the same – you are granted a special leave of absence and the day of default is not applied to you either. On the other hand, in the current state of law, whether you are a public official or a private sector employee, if you are declared ill, Covid-19 or other pathology, with the exception of long-term illnesses, the waiting period continues to apply to you. It may be considered – it is the meaning of your remarks, Mrs Pires Beaune – that this is not satisfactory. In any case, we have ensured strict equality: there is no waiting period in case of confinement, whatever the reason for it; There's one if you stop sick. Given the rate of spread of the epidemic, we may need to revisit the application of the deficiency period to those who are recognized as suffering from Covid-19. If the question arises, I think it can be resolved in management. In the present state of law, I repeat, everyone is treated equally: there is no waiting period for confinement; There is one for all people declared sick, regardless of the disease. Covid-19 is not a long-term condition – I say it with caution, because I am not a doctor – those who are affected by it are not covered by the decree organizing the exemption of the day(s) of deficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u261	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u262	First of all, I want to clarify the solidarity fund: I confirm that companies in custody or under judicial reform will be eligible and that independent paramedical professions will also be eligible. With regard to partial unemployment compensation, I take note of what you have said about the employees in the catering sector, Mr Little. However, I do see the counterproductive effects of raising the guarantee to 100 per cent of the net wage. The measure would be perfectly legitimate for some employees – I am thinking in particular of those who supplement their net wages with tips. On the other hand, it would be difficult to justify for employees who receive 2 or 2.5 SMIC, especially since its budgetary cost is already, I repeat, very high. We have ensured that a massive plan is drawn up, and the protection of employees and businesses is, as I said, our top priority. However, let us be very clear, we wanted to keep it under control, so as not to have any difficulty in financing in the event that, as the crisis continues, it would be necessary – I think so – to extend certain measures by one month. To a device that would explode the meters from the start and would not be sustainable in the long term, I preferred well calibrated measurements. I'm going back to the solidarity fund. You asked me, Mr. Pupponi, about his scope. First of all, and this is a political choice that I claim, will only be eligible for the fund for small businesses,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u264	... i.e. those with a turnover of less than EUR 1 million. All in all, a "small business" with a turnover of this amount is already significant. Then there are two situations. Either your business, restaurant or bar is closed, in which case you no longer have customers and therefore no more one euro of recipe, and you are then automatically eligible for the bottom. Either you have lost a lot from year to year, at least 70% of your turnover, and you are also eligible for it automatically. All persons in these two cases will automatically benefit – on this point there was an ambiguity – from the flat-rate aid of EUR 1500 per month. For the first time in the history of our nation, those who did not have a safety net, since they are not entitled to unemployment, will now have one: they will have 1500 euros to live. I do not claim that this is great, but at least national solidarity will be fully exercised. The Directorate-General for Public Finance will pay this aid automatically, probably at the beginning of April – I am careful, because it is hundreds of thousands of cases and the technique is not simple to develop. In any case, I repeat to all small entrepreneurs whose turnover is less than EUR 1 million and whose trade is closed or who have lost a lot of turnover from one year to the next that they will automatically collect EUR 1500 from the beginning of April. However, even with this EUR 1500 aid, the company may have to close down, and those who find themselves in a very difficult situation may want to get more. In this case, the examination will be carried out on a case-by-case basis at regional level, given that the regions will contribute EUR 250 million to the financing of the fund. In my opinion, it is preferable to do so. To answer your question, President Woerth, we will have an efficient, two-stage system: automatic payment of EUR 1500 aid; beyond, investigation of the files region by region. It will be up to the departments of the regions to define the organisation of the procedure. They will, of course, benefit from decentralized State support, as the scheme is co-financed by the State and the regions. Finally, I would like to point out that small private hospitals with a turnover of less than EUR 1 million will be eligible for the fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u265	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u266	Firstly, Mr Minister, I repeat the question raised earlier by François Pupponi: will private hospitals be affected by the EUR 2 billion support package? Secondly, the EUR 1500 aid will be financed by the well-known EUR 1 billion solidarity fund, with a total of 750 million from the State and 250 million from the regions. I imagine you have ensured that local and regional authorities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation can make their contribution. I would point out that they too have competence in economic development, in accordance with the de minimis rule. They are already paying aid, and some are ready to do so, giving 3000, 4000 or 5000 euros to small local artisans or small businesses. They have the advantage, thanks to their close ties, of knowing these craftsmen and companies, of being able to identify them. In my region, for example, there is already a single file to ask for aid – Nicolas Forissier knows this very well. I am convinced that a solution can be found. Thirdly, I come back to the day of failure. A few minutes ago, at 20 o'clock, the French applauded all the caregivers. And the National Assembly, meeting here, wouldn't be able to show their solidarity? Those who are confined because they have been contaminated are obliged to pay one day of deficiency! And some of these contaminated doctors continue to make diagnoses, in telemedicine! At this moment, it is up to us, in my view, to make a gesture of solidarity in their favour, unanimously, without any of us claiming the merit of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u267	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u268	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear comments on the eligibility of paramedical professions for the exceptional solidarity fund. However, I would like to draw your attention to the need to adopt the regulations very quickly, because those concerned have cash flow problems, with very little or no activity. I'll be back on the day of my failure, too. If you are confined to your home without being ill, you are not given a day of deficiency. On the other hand, if you are ill and treat at home, one is applied to you. This is neither logical nor consistent. We must make a gesture by removing this day of failure. Finally, Mr.Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to a legitimate request. The Government had given priority to the care of the children of caregivers and staff who were essential to the functioning of hospitals and care activities, and that was a very good thing. Nevertheless, I would like this system to be extended to include children of firefighters, police officers and gendarmes, who are subject to service obligations. They are not concerned at present, although we would be in a position to organise this reception in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u269	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor. I call on the various speakers to be brief so that we move quickly to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u270	Thank you for your clarification, Minister. I would, however, like you to provide further information in the coming days on the situation of the agents,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u271	It will be done!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u272	... presidents of SAS or managers, and on that of collaborating spouses, who have high expectations. I too stress that the scheme must be applied very quickly, because the needs are important, and I regret that you do not accept our amendment to extend it to companies with a 50% reduction in turnover. I have heard that we will appreciate each situation with discernment, but all this will take time. However, support for businesses must be provided very quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u273	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u274	We have already had the opportunity to say what we think of the day of failure. Beyond that, to the extent that a person declared ill is, in fact, confined, I feel, like Christine Pires Beaune, that something is wrong with the current solution. I would also like to draw your attention to the amendments relating to the world of culture. It will suffer the impact of the crisis, knowing that some structures were already in difficulty. Let us pay close attention to this sector. I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the case of intermittents: measures must be taken to enable them to reach the number of hours necessary to enable them to support themselves. Finally, it was mentioned that it was important to take into account companies whose situation was complicated, in particular those which were the subject of a safeguard plan or were emerging from it. I have heard that this would be the case in part, but I would like to stress that companies that are starting to restart and are regaining hope must be given a period of freezing, in order to be able to move forward, even if the conditions are not very favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u275	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u276	With regard to the waiting period, I recalled the rule of law and the measures we have taken to ensure equal treatment between private sector employees and public sector employees in the event of confinement. We took these measures at the beginning of February, along the lines of prevention, at a time when the situation was not the one we are experiencing today. It is true that one or more days of failure are applied when a disease stoppage is granted. The arguments in this regard are admissible. However, we do not believe that this issue falls within the scope of this Amending Finance Bill, the purpose of which is to take urgent measures in economic matters. I do not intend to bring the debate to a definitive conclusion, so much so. There is a need to work on and move forward on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u277	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u278	This amendment, mirroring that adopted in the first part, tends to support the civil aviation sector in the current difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u280	This amendment is the corollary of the one we discussed during the consideration of the annex budget for air control and operation. It is consistent to provide this sector with the necessary resources to overcome the current revenue declines. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u281	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u282	Is it safe to help this sector in the form of a loan? Would it not be better to grant a balance subsidy? The 500 million will have to be paid back! What will be the indirect consequences for local authorities? A fund has been created to help airport residents sound their homes. What's going to happen? You're going to defuse the system, all the work could be interrupted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u283	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u284	This important amendment aims to extend to new states the Cap Francexport scheme, a reinsurance agreement between the State and four private insurers, intended to promote the coverage of French exports in short-term credit insurance, for a maximum outstanding amount of EUR 2 billion. This measure would support exports under the difficult conditions we are facing today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u285	All right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u286	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u287	It is logical that the Government should propose guarantee schemes that go beyond the banking guarantee at the heart of this bill. The export guarantee is an indispensable tool for SMEs with high export turnover.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u288	Amendment No 29 by Mr Boris Vallaud is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u289	Amendment No 30 by Mr Boris Vallaud is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u290	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u291	We would like to defend this amendment because the examination in committee has left us with the hope that it will be adopted. In the context of a health crisis, it is necessary to support fiscally the development of electronic means of payment in order to limit the circulation of coins and banknotes. The purpose of this amendment is to introduce a tax credit for the benefit of TPEs and SMEs who acquire an electronic payment terminal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u292	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u293	The amendment is interesting, but I invited its authors to withdraw it. Take note of the terminology: the acronym TPE has two meanings – very small companies and electronic payment terminal! Without entering into the health debate, we can ask ourselves the question of the spread of the virus by currency. I do not think that such an amendment can be used to support companies in this direction, but perhaps the Government could think about this problem and take steps to encourage companies to favour contactless payment. This could only be beneficial.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u294	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u295	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u296	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u297	This amendment by Mrs Cariou and Mrs Bagarry is an amendment which is inconclusive in relation to Amendment No 102, which is considered inadmissible. It aims to create a tax reduction for all caregivers, both in the private and public sectors, for the compensation they have lost due to incapacity for work, not taken over by the community or insurance systems, as may result from the 2018 Finance Act for the public sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u299	I invite you to withdraw this amendment. The Secretary of State in charge of the public service is no longer there, but I understand that the purpose of this amendment was to relate to the day of failure in the public service. The Secretary of State spoke on this subject today. As for the tax expenditure problem, I am not sure that the proposed measure is the most effective. I understand this amendment as a call for a fresh debate on the day of default, which has been done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u300	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor in support of Amendment No 41.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u301	This amendment by Members The Republicans tends to create a tax credit for French companies. It supports Article 4 which provides State guarantees for loans to be granted to enterprises. Finally, the aim is to encourage banks to grant loans at zero rates – PTZ – or at very low interest rates, through a new PTZ Coronavirus tax credit, inspired by the known PTZ. Guarantee is an essential issue, but one that must not overlook the burden of interest that will arise in the medium and long term. Companies must be able to make the most of the recovery, without succumbing to the burden of burdens. It is important to minimize financial costs and expenses. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u303	I said this morning in committee: when rates are low, as they are today, the cost of credit is not the main problem for companies, even if they encounter cash flow difficulties. Moving towards the minimum cost, or zero, as you propose, is not the priority of public action. I will therefore not give a favourable opinion to this amendment, even though it is still important to ensure that the cost of credit is not too high, by inviting banks not to overexpress it. The debate is interesting, and we will come to Article 4. We must not seek a zero cost of credit, the financial weight of which would be borne by the banks. Most importantly, banks would only benefit from this tax credit after a one-year lag. This would be very complex when the low rates allow banks to raise margins while giving companies credit at a reasonable cost. The main problem for firms in difficulty is not the cost of credit, but access to credit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u304	I call Mr Forissier to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u305	This amendment concerns tax credits for small rents. We've already asked the question without an answer, but you weren't there, minister. The aim of this amendment is to create a tax credit for professional landlords, in order to enable them to deduct the interest which they might have received under the ordinary law, i.e. the moratorium interest regime provided for in the Civil Code. We understood that the Government was discussing this with professional donors, major groups, but this incentive measure could go in the right direction. Most importantly, many small contractors of professional premises, former traders or artisans, have kept their building to rent it to a new merchant or craftsman. Often, this rent represents the bulk of their retirement and you are going to ask them to postpone their collection. The discourse calling for national unity can bear fruit, but it would be right, at least for them, to benefit from a financial return, which would be an incentive. I would like you to answer us, Mr.Minister, because this subject concerns hundreds of thousands of small donors – I am not talking about the big groups, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u306	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u307	Donors, as legal entities, can benefit from all the cash-flow support measures. The Minister of Economy and Finance has been very clear: we encourage all those who can do so to make this effort towards those who owe them rent. The support and accompanying arrangements are also intended for these people. If a lessor encounters difficulties and achieves a low turnover, he will be eligible for the Solidarity Fund. As far as natural persons are concerned, I will let the minister detail, but it seems to me that measures could be taken in parallel with the scheme for professional donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u308	Are ICS eligible?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u309	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u310	We have chosen to avoid a binding mechanism. Once again, like all the choices that have been submitted to you, I assume it. There are too many and varied donors to allow us to introduce a binding, effective and free from adverse consequences for businesses. We must have the humility to proceed sector by sector, land by land. As far as public land is concerned, it is clear that they will be used. Those who are members of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations habitates, the shops at the foot of the building, will be subject to this contribution since they are under the authority of the public authorities. Some large private estates, such as the National Council of Shopping Centres, which manages 38,000 businesses, have agreed to participate in the solidarity effort and to postpone rents. I thank them for that. I hope that other major private donors will take the same decision. So, would some insurers, whose real estate parks are important, not be able to participate in this solidarity? Above all, don't forget the millions of small private donors. Millions of pensioners rely on this income supplement. National solidarity then takes on its full meaning. They know the tenant and can decide according to the situation. The exceptional nature of the circumstances requires exceptional behaviour. We are witnessing this today – and I would like to take this opportunity to greet all those who honor themselves by their work in the hospital or the support they provide to the isolated. Postworkers today play a vital role in bringing their meal trays or parcels to the isolated elderly. These are acts of solidarity. You are right, Mr Forissier, it would be foolish to take binding legislation for all the millions of donors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u311	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u312	Minister, you have understood that this comprehensive amendment plays an appeal role. We agree with you: by definition, we cannot grant a tax credit to the Caisse des dépôts et consignations! And the big land estates like the very large groups whose names I will not mention should not be involved! My question, in essence, is about the hundreds of thousands of private donors who, I repeat, often have as their sole or primary retirement income the rental of their former commercial premises. It is enough to walk around small towns, medium towns or even rural towns to meet them. I'm talking about them, obviously not Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield or I don't know who. What do we do for the former small traders, who have little income and would like to contribute to national solidarity, I am convinced, minister, but may not have the means to do so? What answer will be given to enable them to do so?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u313	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u314	I would like to draw your attention to the private donors of local authorities, including communes and communities of municipalities, owners of industrial and commercial premises whose rents represent significant operating revenues. I had earlier on the phone the president of the community of Loches Sud Touraine communes, who told me that these rents represented 2 million euros of operating revenue for him. I would like to draw attention to these particular situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u315	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u316	I would like to take advantage of this discussion of private donors to draw the attention of the Minister of Economy to the spas of our country. They are closed, by decision of the prefectural authorities and the ARS, and that is normal. But these spas create an important activity, including the rental of furnished rooms, for the approximately 600,000 curists they host each year. Many private donors, owners, live on these resources. They rent furnished rooms for the curists in the spas. This whole economy is penalized by the epidemic. These donors will also call for national solidarity and seek our help. Whatever form, tax credit or other, they will need our support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u317	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u318	I have indeed been seized by the National Council of Thermal Establishments of this difficulty. These one hundred and ten establishments create many jobs. We will study this subject specifically.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u319	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u320	Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the conditions for loans to companies by the public investment bank. Some companies are concerned about the duty-free periods for repayment of loans, which are four months for 12-month loans, and six months for longer-term loans. Given the uncertainty of the economic recovery, these deadlines seem insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u321	That's a good note.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u322	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u323	Article 4 concerns State guarantees relating to loans granted by credit institutions. The plan is massive, as the Minister and the rapporteur-general have pointed out, and fast. Some 300 billion are being mobilised, for a single objective, which we all share, to support the cash flow of companies. I will not go into details, but speed, speed itself, will be a major element. Funding must be immediately mobilised, as you have all seen. The guarantee is automated for all companies up to ETIs, which is not negligible. It is subject to requirements; Bpifrance will follow up free of charge. I would like to share an emotional memory with all those who sat during the review of the Finance Bill for 2020 – there are many of them. I believe that we were almost unanimous in stressing the need to preserve the budget line of the public investment bank. This belief was shared by all parliamentary groups, which is rare enough to be stressed. The Government had listened to us and had preserved that line. We did not think then that we would have to activate it, to mobilise it so strongly and so quickly. In short, a few months ago we were wondering about the fate of this body and I thank the executive for listening to parliamentarians on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u324	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u325	Some measures in this article are in the right direction. They aim to support business activity. But I would like to take this opportunity to stress, as has already been pointed out in committee, that we must also be very vigilant: our citizens must not be subject to too much bank charges from their banks. We had this debate on the occasion of a bill that I introduced. The parliamentary niche of the group La France insoumée has, of course, been moved. For the time being, the mechanisms proposed by the Government are simply seeking the mobilization of banks. I think we'll have to go further. Let us be vigilant: banking institutions, of course, must be mobilised to defend companies, they must not take the opportunity to "punish" our fellow citizens, if I may allow myself the expression, through this form of private tax, which is bank charges, of which the amount is between 3 and 7 billion, at least.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u326	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u327	The Covid-19 crisis highlighted the limitations of the global economic model, and the need for localism. In order to be part of the decisions to break up which the President of the Republic calls for, we propose, by this amendment, to break with this model. We propose, among other things, that the State guarantee should apply only to companies whose activities are mainly located in the national territory and which have their registration in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u328	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u329	Unfavorable opinion. Of course, our companies must have activities in the national and international territories to develop.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u330	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u331	With this amendment, we propose that the borrower be given the possibility, at the end of the first year of the loan, of extending the amortisation period of the loan by a few years, to benefit from a little more time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u333	This is an important amendment, because cash flow difficulties often find their solution when short-term loans are converted into medium-term credits. Everything that makes it possible to amortise the loan over a longer period provides an efficient solution for the cash flow of our companies. For these reasons, very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u334	Amendments Nos 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 and 51 of the Committee are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u335	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u336	There is a great risk that the financial and economic crisis, whose health situation has been the trigger, will lead to redundancies. We believe that employees do not have to be the victims of this crisis. Of course, the state will help companies to pass through it financially, through the measures we are discussing in this PLFR. However, there is a risk that these schemes will have a boon effect, and some companies will dismiss employees while benefiting from the scheme proposed in this article. We believe that the aid must be conditional on the absence of redundancies plans. That is the subject of our amendment. We do not want companies to do bad things. Those who terminate must not benefit from the aid provided for in this Article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u338	We are putting all these mechanisms in place to reduce job losses as much as possible. We assume that companies do not compete out of pleasure, but only in extreme cases, out of necessity, in order to survive, and so that all their employees do not have to suffer from the situation. Companies that are in difficulty, forced to lose, unfortunately, a few employees, must benefit first of all from public guarantees. It is not because they are licencing that aid must be prohibited from them: on the contrary, it is because they are licencing that they must be assisted and benefit from the guarantee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u339	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u340	The amendment aims to make New Caledonia, French Polynesia and the Wallis and Futuna Islands eligible for the State loan guarantee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u341	I have before me three amendments, Nos 56, 61 and 74, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u342	Mr Minister, we had this discussion this morning in the Finance Committee. The rapporteur-general was open to the possibility of setting up an evaluation and monitoring committee for the support fund. By this appeal amendment, we propose a composition for this committee. You yourself pointed out in your answers, earlier, that it was necessary to be adaptable and to evolve. Having qualified people who represent both Parliament, the Government and other stakeholders, such as businesses and other beneficiaries, would improve the ability to react and adapt. We know very well that we are going to experience difficult times. This requires Parliament to be involved, as part of its monitoring mission, in the continuation of its work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u343	I call Mr Eric Woerth to support Amendment No. 61.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u344	I am pleased that colleagues have drawn inspiration from the amendment that we have tabled. We all share the same idea: a follow-up committee – whatever its name – must be set up. There is already one for the work of Notre-Dame de Paris, there is no reason not to create one for the guarantee scheme as for the solidarity fund, the composition of which is specified in the amendment. The committee must provide extremely fine and timely follow-up, which will conclude with a report in a year's time. It must be operational and meet as often as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u345	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u346	By this amendment, we take up and support the initiative discussed in committee. The rapporteur-general has already indicated that he will draw on it and discuss it with his Senate counterpart. We are entering a phase of great uncertainty, and it is difficult to measure the real impact of this crisis on the economy. Furthermore, in view of the importance of the financing committed and the need to adapt the arrangements to the changing situation over time, it is essential that both qualitative and quantitative monitoring be carried out, as closely as possible to the ground, taking into account, in particular, the perception that companies have of their own capacity to apply for such arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u347	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u348	First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues and to greet them for their amendments. I repeat that I share their concern: we need a body or at least a mechanism to evaluate this contingency plan in the National Assembly. As Jean-Noël Barrot said, I will defend just after Rule 4, Amendment No. 106 co-built with my counterpart, the general budget rapporteur in the Senate. This amendment includes measures that we discussed this morning in the Finance Committee. For the sake of clarity, I propose to present it now: my colleagues will then be able to decide whether they wish to withdraw their amendments. With Amendment No 106, I will therefore propose that the Government submit a report to Parliament every month and every six months from 1 January 2021. This monthly report will cover the consumption of the appropriations of the two programmes of the mission "Emergency plan in the face of the health crisis"; the cost to the State and the Unédic of the partial activity scheme, on which he will present several statistics, for example on the evolution of the number of employees concerned; on the monitoring of expenditure incurred by the Solidarity Fund; on the assessment of the impact of the health crisis on the economic fabric – with regard to the shortcomings of TPEs and SMEs, which we have mentioned, this information will need to be made available. Finally, on the guarantee of loans, we propose in this amendment that the report be bimonthly rather than monthly. It will be up to the Committee on Finance to take up this report and discuss it. In the light of this explanation, I invite you to withdraw your amendments for the benefit of point 106.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u349	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u350	Opinion in favour of the rapporteur-general's proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u351	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u352	The rapporteur-general is clever, but the subject is too serious for us to be content with a monthly report. Eric Woerth probably remembers this: during the financial crisis, the President of the Republic, Nicolas Sarkozy, had established what had been called the G24, which gathered around him, every fortnight, deputies and senators from all political groups. Minister, we ask you, for a period of three or four months – we will adapt the duration according to the events – to be at your side, around the table, not only to whom a report is addressed, to adjust our policy. Many examples have been cited: it is a guarantee of efficiency. Don't be afraid, go ahead, join Parliament! We have come today for this, and we are here in our role.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u353	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u354	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u355	I agree with Mr Vigier's remarks. We have been sitting since the middle of the afternoon and not a single opposition amendment has been adopted. So we're just a check-in room. We are all in favour of national unity to wage war against the epidemic. In this respect, Philippe Vigier's proposal is more than relevant. While the rapporteur-general has co-edited with his Senate counterpart another amendment, this does not prevent the creation of a task force in which everyone would be gathered. I did not know that President Sarkozy had introduced one during the financial crisis, but an epidemic crisis is, in my opinion, more important than a financial crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u356	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u357	I feel a little like I'm in a playground. Everyone claims the paternity of the measure. It seemed natural to us to table an amendment on this subject and I am pleased that the groups are joining together – this is an opportunity for a small unanimity in the House – and agree with the idea of a follow-up committee – it is not just an evaluation. We are told that we must go quickly and ensure that the funds are released. It is normal for Members to invest in these matters, otherwise what are we doing here? Mr General, you are rejecting our amendments and you are presenting yours. Oh, my God! We are in a playground, it is not worthy of this debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u358	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u359	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LT groups. – Mr Stéphane Peu applause also]] You could have brought together all those who have tabled amendments on this subject and tried to agree them before the sitting to find a solution. It's a funny way of doing things. You will succeed in not accepting any amendments, even in form, from the opposition. Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u360	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u361	I do not think that this subject deserves debate and endless statements. The Government agrees with the principle of a follow-up committee – that is a very good principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u362	Ah! All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u363	I think I have shown, particularly during the discussion of the PACTE law – the law for business growth and transformation – that I was always very open to monitoring committees and sensitive to the role of parliamentarians. It's up to you to see what the best formula is. I am not here to decide between the various proposals which, moreover, seem very close to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u364	Yes, it's up to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u365	Perhaps we could take a few minutes to reach an agreement, otherwise everyone will ask for the floor in a debate that is not interesting or at the height of the stakes. We agree on the need for follow-up. The rapporteur-general and the chairman of the Committee on Finance have put the words on the subject well: let us now take two minutes to hear us, and then let us move on to something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u366	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u367	Three amendments were tabled by opposition groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u368	MODEM is not an opposition group!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u369	I propose that their authors join the amendment by the Republican Group, if the rapporteur-general and the minister accept it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u370	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u371	We need to close this debate, which is absolutely not up to the stakes. My amendment was intended to bring everyone together around the evaluation. I have no problem removing it: I had dropped it off not to steal Mr. Woerth's snack, or what do I still know, but to have an evaluation tool. I will therefore withdraw Amendment No 106 and now give an opinion in favour of Amendment No 61. If the authors of the other amendments are willing to withdraw them, it will be simpler and more legible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u372	We come to the amendments on the additional article after Article 4. The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u373	Technically, this amendment is very important. The aim is to grant a State guarantee, up to a maximum of EUR 10 billion, to the Central Reinsurance Fund, which is responsible for the public reinsurance scheme for the domestic risks related to credit insurance. This is absolutely vital because it will allow companies to continue to benefit from the coverage they need to continue their business.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u374	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u375	In line with the extension of the State guarantee to credit-export insurance, it is useful to provide this guarantee for credit insurance. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u376	The rapporteur-general announced earlier that his amendment No 106 had been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u377	I have before me two amendments, Nos 18 and 52, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u378	We would like to have a precise scoreboard, published every 15 days or every month, showing the number, type, sector of activity and location of the enterprises benefiting from the State guarantee. This document would allow real-time monitoring of beneficiaries and expenditure under the State guarantee, the EUR 1 billion solidarity fund – EUR 750 million from the State and EUR 250 million from the regions – as well as the provision of partial unemployment for an estimated EUR 5.5 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u379	You have the floor, Mrs Rabault, to support Amendment No 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u380	This is a fallback amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u381	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u382	These amendments seem to me to be satisfied with the adoption of Amendment No 61. We have the tool in which we can integrate some of the information you want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u383	Are the amendments retained?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u384	I'll take them off.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u385	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u386	I have heard Mr Dussopt correctly explain that it is not possible to compare the situation of local and regional authorities with that of companies with regard to the consequences of the health crisis. However, we cannot deny that communities will have to bear unforeseen costs that could be significant. They will have to pay employees in technical unemployment or in an equivalent situation. In addition, some expected revenues will be lacking – I am thinking of the recreation centres, canteens and various facilities that have had to be closed. Finally, the Covid-19 incurs additional costs. The Prime Minister and the President of the Republic regularly highlight the leading role of mayors and municipalities in dealing with the health crisis, and they are right: the municipalities are at the forefront of the fight against the virus, but this position is costly. The municipalities must deploy important resources – I do not list them, we all have them in mind – for a long time to come. We propose that a report – article 40 of the Constitution does not allow us to do more – take stock of the financial consequences of the crisis for communities and the possibility of helping them to meet the additional costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u387	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u388	As I said in committee, it is not the purpose of this text to provide for the allocation of appropriations between the various public administrations. This debate will have to take place either in a future collective budget, when we are out of this episode, or in the 2021 finance bill. There is no urgent need to clarify the links between the State and other public administrations. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u389	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 58.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u390	This amendment concerns the day of default. Mr. Minister said earlier that he was not opposed to finding a solution on this matter. The amendment provides for a report presenting, for the first half of 2020, the number of civil servants placed on sick leave due to the Covid-19, and detailing the distribution of these civil servants by public service side, specifying the bodies and managers of employment. This report would inform a future decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u391	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u392	Unfavorable. The debate has already taken place on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u393	I call Mr Ludovic Pajot to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u394	We call on the Government to provide Parliament with a report to verify the traceability of the funds released. These billions needed for our economy must benefit our businesses directly, not just the financial markets. The money released must not be used to bail out banks but to finance the real economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u395	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u396	The ECB's monetary policy is certainly not intended to bail out banks. We are not at all in this regard; Our aim is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity to finance the real economy. More generally, bank stability is also ensured by the prudential ratios established since the 2008 crisis. Thanks to these ratios, the banking system is robust and robust; it is capable of ensuring the economic needs of our SMEs and businesses, and the ECB helps it to do so through the buy-back of bonds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u397	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u398	This morning, the ECB announced a €750 billion asset buyback plan. This amendment gives us the opportunity to question the ECB's method of intervention, which is to redeem debt securities on the secondary market. It would be appropriate to start a discussion with other European countries to analyse the ECB's intervention doctrine and to see to what extent the amendment of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union could enable it to adopt different, innovative and more appropriate monetary practices for the common good. For example, purchases of public debt securities on the primary market would allow the ECB to finance the states directly. It would also be possible to inject liquidity directly from economic agents, which would reduce the number of intermediaries and encourage consumption and investment more effectively without giving too much space to speculation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u399	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u400	What would give room for speculation is precisely a changing strategy of the ECB. This institution has the advantage of pursuing a constant strategy for several years and of learning from the 2008 crisis. Unfavorable opinion, for the same reasons as for Mr Pajot's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u401	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u402	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u403	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u404	I want to express myself, as you guess, in support of the position of my friend Pierre Dharréville and the GDR group. No, Mr General, I do not believe that the ECB has learned the lessons of 2008 or the Greek crisis. I readily admit that Mr Draghi made the right decision by injecting liquidity and buying debt securities against the advice of many European central bankers, particularly Germans. It is certain that this intervention protected us from the recession that was imminent. However, the method of execution must make us think. I say again: within a little more than a year, we have injected the equivalent of the wealth produced annually by France, at a rate of 85 billion euros per month. Yet, there was no trace of what this should have produced: inflation. Why? Because all this money has gone back into the financial sphere and not into the so-called "real" economy – I put quotes in it because I know that many put it – or productive. The only effect of this intervention was therefore to maintain the stability of the banking system, which is already not so bad. You have just told us that this system is stable and robust, thanks to the application of the new prudential measures. I would point out, for the record, that there has been a debate in this House to prevent the implementation of the Basel III measures. In the meantime, since the system is robust, what is the point of continuing to buy state debt securities on the secondary market? Why not lend money directly to the states? It is a decision that is as heterodox as it was to buy in the secondary market. This system gives a rather incredible result since the debt securities redeemed in this way produce results for the ECB at the expense of the national states. All this is a little absurd. Of course, the money is then redistributed, but at the end of a circuit of incredible length, where direct intervention would make it possible to finance the economy directly. So I think my comrade Pierre Dharréville is right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u405	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u406	We wish to have a report on the opportunity to create similar Treasury bonds, which would allow the French, once the crisis has passed, to participate in the revival through investment, to make a citizen act to finance our economy by helping small and medium-sized enterprises in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u407	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u408	We discussed it this morning with our colleague Charles de Courson. I was not convinced of the relevance of this tool, but I can question it. I fear that it will reduce our ability to issue debt and ensure liquidity in markets. Today, our debt management is good, healthy, and I want it to remain so during the period of turmoil that we are about to experience; I wouldn't want to disturb her by introducing these kinds of tools. It is therefore not because of a great conviction, but because of caution – necessary at this time – that I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u409	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u410	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u411	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u412	This proposal by our colleague Michel Castellani still seems interesting to me. This crisis is out of the ordinary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u413	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u414	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u415	The French are all concerned; To enable them to finance the economy, to invest and thus show their solidarity, citizenship and national commitment has meaning, symbolically. In the crisis we are experiencing, this gesture would be part of the national unity in which all our fellow citizens could participate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u416	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u417	In committee, I made a commitment to Charles de Courson to obtain a Treasury note in order to have the level of expertise necessary to assess the relevance of this tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u418	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u419	Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u420	Earlier, Bruno Le Maire was open to the creation of a follow-up committee. With this amendment, we ask the Government for a report that would also inform Parliament about what happened during this period. The Prime Minister told the Senate today that we are in front of an ocean and do not know where we are going. These tools will be essential to build, in due course, a recovery plan to redress the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u421	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u422	As with several requests for reports, I want to include this issue in the collective follow-up committee that we co-built. I therefore consider the amendment to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u423	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 12, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u424	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u425	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u426	This amendment by the Republican Group calls for a report to be submitted to Parliament on the question of the creation of an exceptional compensation fund to deal with the economic consequences and serious health threats posed by the coronavirus, along the lines of the Fund for the Prevention of Major Natural Hazards known as the Barnier Fund. It would be a matter of thinking about the creation of a new exceptional regime, such as the one that exists for natural disasters, this time for health disasters. This fund, which could be financed by taxation and State allocations, would provide compensation for operating losses, in addition to the insurance guarantee. This is the time to begin a reflection for the years to come, because a situation of this nature can happen again.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u427	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u428	We discussed it this morning and I agree with you on the need to engage in a frank, clear and transparent dialogue with insurers to find out what their actions will be. At this stage, I am not sure that the priority is to create a new health disaster status, by analogy with natural disasters; The real question is how insurers can help businesses more effectively. As with the banks – the minister explained earlier that there was progress in the discussions – the actions need to be even clearer and more powerful. I do not believe that a new health disaster should be created; The emergency is efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u429	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u430	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u431	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u432	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u433	It's an important subject. Mr rapporteur-general, I understand your reluctance to create a new regime, but the reality on the ground is that operating losses are not assured. When the exploitation sites fall, there will therefore be very important economic consequences. That is why we have considered, with Eric Woerth and all the members of the group The Republicans, the creation, for the state of health disaster, of a regime equivalent to that of the state of natural disaster, possibly improving it, so as to obtain a better account of operating losses by insurance. Indeed, it is a real problem that will worsen in the coming days. Although many measures are being taken today, they are unfortunately still insufficient, particularly in this area. We must absolutely avoid business failures in the coming days.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u434	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u435	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u436	The question is simple: do farm losses insurance work in the event of a health crisis? The answer is no. Second question: are insurers likely to extend the scope of the risks covered in this regard? I say no, especially since the crisis can last several months. Indeed, health crises like the one we know happen once a century – the last time was the Spanish flu – and so it will not be possible to have an assurance mechanism in place. There is then only one solution that has been adopted for natural disasters such as volcanic explosions: a tax-financed fund has been created. Resources are accumulating and the day the disaster arrives, even if it is once every fifty years, we shoot at the bottom. I don't see any other way. I therefore believe that this amendment is of real interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u437	We're just asking for a report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u438	A report on the feasibility of the device!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u439	The President of the Committee on Finance has the floor to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u440	This is also a request for a report – all these requests are of course due to the constraints of article 40 of the Constitution. Some departments paid an even greater tribute than others: they were the ones who started to pay for the chronicle of the coronavirus, notably the Oise, but also the Haut-Rhin, part of the Morbihan and part of the Haute-Savoie. In these departments, which have inaugurated the terrible tragedy that we are experiencing today, companies, particularly in the tourism sector, were often brutally stopped by the prefects, since they are of course in their role. For example, business seminars have not been held at all in these departments, whereas hotels have often been reserved for a long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u441	Ski resorts have also suffered!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u442	It was new and it was brutal. Today, this is no longer the case because we know what it is; the economic actors who contract do so with knowledge of the new conditions. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate to use the Solidarity Fund in a very special way for these first weeks marked by prefectural decrees finding it impossible to pursue economic activities. While this cannot be done lightly, a report could attempt to outline the sectors concerned in those departments, which could benefit from compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u443	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u444	Selectorization or territorialization are subjects that will need to be addressed quickly, but it is still a little early to do so. Being in the eye of the cyclone, we find it difficult to know whether such territory – for example the Grand-Est region or the Oise department, first affected – or any sector has been particularly affected economically. We're out of step.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u445	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u446	Same opinion. I know that many companies would like to see insurance against operating losses in the event of a health disaster.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u447	It's a real problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u448	Some insurance contracts cover the epidemic, but they are so rare that they will only deal with residual cases. Should we go beyond this and provide for mandatory health disaster coverage and State guarantee, as is the case for natural disasters? In my view, we must open up this reflection and conduct it together, assessing the advantages and disadvantages of such a mechanism. Its first consequence would be to increase insurance premiums, but as health crises risk renewing, it would be wise, as you propose, to look at the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u449	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u450	Mr Nicolas Forissier has the floor to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u451	In order not to contravene the provisions of article 40 of the Constitution, it is still a request for a report. We hope that the Government will submit to Parliament a study on the possibility of extending the partial employment scheme, also known as partial unemployment, to contract workers in the territorial civil service, whose activity has just stopped abruptly. We would like to know what budgetary consequences such a measure would have and, above all, whether it is possible in the short term.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u452	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u453	This morning, we raised the problem in committee. Mr. Secretary of State will answer you better than I do. A priori, given the necessary continuity of the public service, the public service – whether state, territorial or hospital – is not concerned by the problem of partial activity. However, many territorial contractors, such as those working in media libraries, may suffer from the current situation. It remains to be seen whether their critical mass requires the use of the partial activity device. I'm not sure. It would be better to adapt certain measures. I believe that the Secretary of State is conducting discussions in this direction with representatives of the territorial civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u454	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u455	I share the reservations of the rapporteur-general. In addition to the situation we are experiencing, the extension of the partial activity scheme to the territorial civil service would raise the question of making local authorities subject to unemployment insurance contributions. Self-insurance schemes are specific and present some difficulties. We found this when we introduced for the territorial civil service the possibility of conventional breaks, which are accompanied by a return to employment allowance. It is then the communities, or more broadly the public employers, that finance the allowance. I express an unfavorable opinion on the amendment, because it deals with a much larger problem than the current situation. Without repeating what I said to Ms Ménard, I would point out that we cannot compare the situation of communities, even if they will experience difficulties in the coming weeks or months, with that of private companies: the latter lose their turnover while the former retain most of their resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u456	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u457	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u458	The canteens, which retain their staff, no longer receive income, while they could receive from one to seven euros per meal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u459	The same problem arises for crèches or holiday halls.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u460	Indeed! Certain activities of local and regional authorities give rise to the payment of royalties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u461	The case of the media libraries can also be cited.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u462	When these activities stop, communities lose everything, like private companies. Therefore, why not extend the scheme of partial activity to employees of the territorial civil service who work in services of almost an industrial and commercial nature – in the sense that their activity gives rise to the payment of a fee – such as canteens, media libraries and possibly festive halls?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u463	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u464	Mr Secretary of State, let us make sure that we do not mix two separate questions. When an employer who does not contribute to the unemployment insurance scheme wishes to separate from a contract, it is up to the employer to pay the benefits. But communities do not want to separate from anyone: it is the disappearance of their activity that creates a surplus of contract public officials. In two or three months – as soon as possible – you will call on them to participate in a comprehensive recovery plan. The situation will not be that of 2008, which forced us to completely restart the economy. This time, I hope, although I do not know, that the activity will resume more naturally. Anyway, we'll need a recovery plan. The first concerns, after the enterprises, will probably be the local authorities, which will run these enterprises, especially those of the building industry. We will then discuss, among other things, the VAT compensation fund, the VATF. In the meantime, it would be useful to conduct an in-depth discussion very quickly as to whether community managers can use the business arrangements to put some contract workers into partial unemployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u465	I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 67.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u466	We, too, believe that communities must be empowered to cope with the crisis and to be among the actors that will enable our country to overcome it. Our amendment calls on the Government to urgently create a plan of financial support for hospitals that will enable them to cope with the health crisis associated with the Covid-19 epidemic. A specific financial envelope of several billion euros must be quickly released to hire hospital staff, where possible, to purchase equipment and to guarantee the cash flow of health facilities. Earlier, a hospital director confirmed to me the seriousness of the situation. Some managers face a difficult situation; But you have not given them any answer. While it is possible to repeat "whatever it costs", suppliers want to be paid. It is a question of solving a concrete problem. You make sure that ONDAM is an objective and not a ceiling. We knew it! But recognize that, so far, ONDAM has generally been seen as a ceiling or an instrument to limit health spending. Let's say you're changing your shoulder rifle and you're looking at the situation differently. This does not make us forget the terms in which the debate has been held so far. We call on the Government to commit itself to tabling a draft law on the financing of corrective social security, so that we can discuss the amounts envisaged and their use. Together, we need to assess needs, determine how to meet them and, if necessary, decide how to allocate the necessary funds. I ask you, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, to commit yourself to this matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u467	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u468	Even if health concerns are not at the heart of this legislative vehicle, I will not touch on this issue. Today, we are dealing with the urgency. Let us repeat: we are doing everything we can to resolve a health crisis. Earlier, we discussed the €2 billion envelope referred to in the explanatory memorandum. If an increase in ONDAM appears in this amending finance bill, it is for the sole purpose of managing the current crisis, to buy masks or increase the daily allowances of staff. The Minister of Solidarity and Health is fully aware of the needs of the public hospital. The debt problem was addressed. For the past two and a half years, we have injected a lot of public money into hospitals. The minister has identified the problem – real, I agree – of their cash flow; He even planned an action plan. However, in such a serious moment, we must respect a chronology. Today, we are voting for a text aimed at saving the cash flow of businesses. Of course, we can talk about the health emergency, but I would remind you that it is being treated. Tomorrow we'll look at the public hospital. The Minister of Solidarity and Health will eventually propose to raise ONDAM – at least there is no doubt that he will take up the matter. In the meantime, I suggest that you withdraw your amendment. As a matter of urgency, I do not think it appropriate to ask the Government for a report on the establishment of a plan for financial support to hospitals. We will look at this as soon as we emerge from the current crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u469	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u470	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u471	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u472	Today, the public hospital requisitions the private hospital, which it asks to renounce surgical acts in order to release beds. As a result, private hospitals lose revenue and risk falling one after another.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u473	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u474	It is beautiful to want to save the public hospital, but we cannot forget that private hospitals are associated with it. We've been asking you about this since this morning, minister, and we haven't got any answers. The representatives of the federation of private clinics and hospitals have called me: in a month, because they cannot pay the salaries, some institutions will have to close. For them, you have to imagine a backup plan very quickly. Imagine what would happen tomorrow if hospitals were forced to close in the midst of a health crisis! Let me remind you that we are waiting for a quick response.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u475	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u476	I would stress that it seems to me that we are taking the necessary measures for companies, whereas we are planning for hospitals only devices that are as incomplete as they are imprecise. I hear your arguments, rapporteur-general. I'm not going to sue you for any intention. But we need to take concrete action. Mr Pupponi has just recalled that some hospitals send their patients back to the private sector to be able to accommodate patients with Covid -19: this is not without consequences on the chain of activity. The financial and economic security of hospitals must be ensured. Let us repeat: I wish the Government to commit itself to returning quickly to us with a bill to finance the social security correction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u477	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u478	I agree with Mr. Pupponi's analysis. Some private institutions are deprograming operations to release beds to accommodate patients in the public hospital. This situation would require a comprehensive analysis by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health or by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. For the time being, no solution has been put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u479	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u480	The problem is real. Deprogramming involves all hospitals and clinics, both large and small, which undermines their economic model. To receive patients affected by coronavirus, private clinics emptied beds. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health must consider as soon as possible another form of financial support so that they can rebalance their economic model. It's at least in this direction that we have to go.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u481	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u482	Thank you for pointing out this difficulty, but I would like to remind you that this bill is a comprehensive plan of action. It aims to support the cash flow of all companies, including private hospitals, to enable them to renew loans on the most favourable terms possible, to ensure that there is no bankruptcy in France and that the country suffers as little economic damage as possible. Let's be lucid: this is the first dyke we set up. More will be needed. As has already been said, sectors are completely affected. Some are completely closed, such as catering, while others are at the heart of the crisis, such as hotels, events, tourism or tour operators. Some industrial sectors see their turnover collapse completely, falling by 80% or 90% – I am thinking of aeronautics or the automotive industry. Once this bill has been passed, consideration will also have to be given to sectoral provisions. The private hospital will of course be affected by this reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u483	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to support Amendment No. 68.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u484	In the words of the rapporteur-general and the minister, we are dealing with urgency as part of a comprehensive plan. Through this amendment, we want to talk about the voluntary sector, which is essential in our country. With 1.8 million jobs involved, it is the largest in Europe. Associations are subject to expenses and expenses, while subsidies have declined in recent years. What measures will be taken for them? Will they be the same as for companies, or will the associations benefit from a separate support plan?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u485	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u486	I am speaking under the control of the Minister of Economy and Finance, but I believe that associations must be included as much as possible in the cash support arrangements that will be created. Some associations will experience real difficulties in pursuing their activities. For example, this morning we referred to the case of those who deliver meals to vulnerable people. We must make sure that these associations resist the crisis, first of all for reasons of maintaining structures and jobs, but also because their purpose is essential for the survival of certain people. This requires increased vigilance. Should we create a special unit dedicated to associations? I don't know. Perhaps... What is certain, in any case, is that they must have as much access as companies to cash aid, as had been the case, for example, when associations benefited from reductions in costs at the time of the CICE's transformation. The opinion is rather unfavourable, although your amendment has the merit of stressing the importance of the voluntary sector, which needs to be monitored very closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u487	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u488	I would point out that associations, if they are employed, have access to partial unemployment and if they are registered in the profit-making sector or achieve a result giving rise to taxation, are eligible for the tax and social charges deferral scheme. The plan we are proposing therefore covers very broadly the field of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u489	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u490	I support this amendment. In the home care sector, it is known that the finances of the associations are extremely strained. However, associations are approved by the departments, with whom they are constantly in contact, for example for negotiations on hourly rates or distances. I therefore suggest you, Mr rapporteur-general, turn to the departments. They represent a beautiful interface that will allow you to ensure a proximity mesh, and I am confident that they will be ready to get closer to you. Earlier, the minister opened up opportunities for private institutions, which not only had to deprogram operations, as Ms. Rabault had said very well, but would also have to provide overtime to accommodate people with Covid-19 who could not be treated in university hospitals. In my area, it is private hospitals that are requisitioned in this case – this information has just been given, tonight, at 20.00 p.m. The answer must therefore be up to date, both for associations and for private hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u491	I call Mrs Lemoine to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u492	With this amendment by Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde, we ask for a report to be submitted studying the possibility of not capping the flat-rate aid for very small businesses, self-employed and micro-entrepreneurs at EUR 1500, but of calculating it on the basis of the median wage per occupational sector, this solution seems more accurate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u493	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u494	Unless I am mistaken, we have not considered this amendment in committee. I will therefore give a personal opinion. The mechanism that you are proposing seems a bit complex to me: we would therefore lose fluidity. What is very valuable in the solidarity fund, as presented by the Minister, is its ease of action and deployment. The criteria for companies – less than EUR 1 million in turnover, a 70% loss over a year – and the amount awarded – EUR 1500 – are simple. I prefer this efficient device to a gas plant with very complex criteria. The opinion is therefore rather unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u495	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u496	I am defending him on behalf of my colleague Stella Dupont. It aims to ask for a study report on the advisability of introducing a temporary contribution on the exceptional margins released by large and medium-sized areas during the health crisis. In particular, it could be used to finance small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u497	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u498	I welcome the philosophy of the amendment, with solidarity, by our colleague Stella Dupont...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u499	It doesn't smell like a good fall!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u500	[[Smile]] Please, Mr. Abad, do not read my thoughts. I could change my mind just to make you wrong! This is a very interesting amendment in that we must ask ourselves the question of the solidarity of the "big" people with regard to the "small". From this point of view, distribution is a particular model. Stella Dupont proposes a mechanism that may be a little too direct – I think this is an appeal amendment – but the creation of a contribution from large and medium-sized areas to help small traders forced to close, except in the food sector, is a question that will arise. I know I'm not teaching you anything, minister, but you'll have to bring all those who have the means together around the table and ask them to help others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u501	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u502	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u503	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u504	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u505	I hear we're at war. In the past, in wars, a tax was imposed on war profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u506	There are losses!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u507	[[Smile]] You're going to give us ideas, Mr. de Courson!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u508	Now we're in a health war. Who benefits from this crisis? E-commerce and some forms of commerce, to the detriment of small trade. Perhaps it would be interesting, Minister, to think about the creation of an equalization tax between those who benefit from the health crisis and those who suffer from it. I don't know if you have any ideas on this...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u509	Not at this hour!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u510	It's only ten o'clock in the evening!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u511	All this will end with the creation of a tax!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u512	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u513	I support this initiative and this amendment. I myself asked the Minister of Economy and Finance this morning in questions to the Government about the very strong distortion that exists between large areas, which will generate considerable profits, and many small businesses that have been forced to close and are dying.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u514	Mr Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u515	I defend him on behalf of Matthieu Orphelin and the other members of the Libertés et territoires group. This is a request for a report on an important program. This amending finance bill aims to support the economy. A moment will come when a recovery plan is drawn up, when we need to consider an ecological and sustainable transformation of society, to ensure that we are less greedy, more concerned about social well-being and able not to repeat the mistakes we have made in the past. When the time comes, in the autumn, when we have regained health serenity and a start to growth, we will have to go much further in the process of ecological and social transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u516	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u517	It would be tempting to conclude on the words that Mr Vigier had just spoken. But I'm going to give my opinion by repeating what I said to Mr. Orphelin. This amendment offers a very interesting point of view for the continuation of our work, for the revival: as you have said, Mr Vigier, we will have to find ourselves, probably in a trans-partisan way, to reflect on how to direct private and public investment towards the major sectors of the future. The climate will obviously be a central criterion in all these reflections. I call for the withdrawal of this amendment, but I stress that it is a good invitation to continue our work once we have emerged from this terrible economic crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u518	Are you withdrawing the amendment, Mr Vigier?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u519	As a commitment has been made by the rapporteur-general, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u520	We have completed our review of the sections of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, can we proceed to the vote?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u521	I'm asking for the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u522	[[Smile]] Come on, Charles...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u523	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u524	Tomorrow, we will discuss emergency legislation to deal with the Covid-19 epidemic. We have just learned that the Senate has just begun its consideration of the ninety amendments. We must sit in committee at nine o'clock and then in public at fifteen o'clock. Can you tell us, Mr. President, how this day will take place?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u525	I can't tell you right now. Everything in its time! We'll be informed in good time, don't worry. I therefore propose that you proceed to the vote on the whole of the amending finance bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u526	But after the vote, everyone flies away!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u527	I would like to make an explanation of vote, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u528	Many groups did not wish to do so, Mr. Mélenchon. But if you want to, you have the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u529	[[Mr. Philippe Vigier protested]] Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u530	Mr Vigier, the explanation of vote is part of the catharsis of an exercise such as that to which we have just lent ourselves. I don't know why you're yelling. What's wrong? Did the coronavirus attack you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u531	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u532	What a level!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u533	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u534	It seems to me important to sum up our remarks, at least politically. During this long day, while we were making decisions, the situation was changing in the country. In terms of health, the worsening is there. In some places, we will start entering the terrible time of choice: we will decide who is greeted in resuscitation and who is not. We are the heirs of a situation that has led to this. Most importantly, these are the ideas we have tried to put forward. I don't know why we're finishing the day without getting an answer about the tests. This question, I repeat, has been asked in all sincerity. Why don't you follow the instructions of the World Health Organization? We don't know that. Maybe we'll find out tomorrow. But in the meantime, I don't think we can remain silent. Furthermore, we remain unanswered about the daily parliamentary follow-up that we all call for. We need a precise device.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u535	We voted!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u536	Mr. Waserman is the president! It's not you, Mr. Vigier!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u537	[[Smile]] Not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u538	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u539	I insist on the word "parliamentary". In conclusion – so I would not have been so long – I would point out that in the next few hours the health reserve will probably be used. So 35,000 people are waiting for instructions, and so are we. The strength will come from ourselves. You, the members of the Government, whose difficult task we measure, must give the necessary signals so that people understand that all, and not only some, are called upon to make an effort. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] I conclude my remarks by renewing my appeal to the workers who hold their jobs: organize yourself, self-organize yourself, do not let decisions be made outside you, organize production and exchange yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u540	If there is no further request for an explanation of vote, we can proceed to the vote on the whole text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u541	I put to the vote the whole of the Finance Amendment Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u542	We show national unity and unity by voting unanimously on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u543	Mr. Vigier, you're not saying anything anymore?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u544	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u545	I would like to thank all of you because it is extremely important for all of our compatriots that this amending finance bill, which comes in support of our country's employees and companies, has been passed unanimously by national representation. National union will be our strength.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-03-19-O1184.u546	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the emergency bill to deal with the Covid -19 epidemic; Discussion of the Emergency Organic Bill to Address the Covid-19 Epidemic. The meeting is adjourned.
