ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u1	The next item is the debate on the Committee on Finance's information report on the spring evaluation on the evaluation of public policies 2020. Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u2	We are meeting here, Minister of Action and Public Accounts, ladies and gentlemen – and I am reinvesting the rostrum – to discuss the third spring of the evaluation, this mechanism for evaluating public policies that the National Assembly has organized for two years now. When we thought last autumn, during the debate on the budget for 2020, of the evaluation work that the Finance Committee was going to carry out in the spring and that we had become accustomed to dealing more and more organised through themes chosen by the Special Rapporteurs, we did not know that a virus was going to change things... If it were only the spring of the evaluation, it would not be very serious; It is, of course, much more so when it comes to the health of the French or the economic state of France. So we did not want to maintain the exercise as planned, to avoid disrupting the – more important – exercise of recovery. However, our committee wanted to go further by asking its special rapporteurs to carry out a rather new exercise, namely to analyse both the use of the previous year's appropriations, as usual, but also and above all to answer the following question: what is the impact of the current health crisis in terms of the mobilisation of budgetary appropriations and the deployment of public policies? Our rapporteurs were therefore led to wonder to what extent the crisis had an impact on current projects or on specific public policies, and what the budgetary implications had been. They carried out their work under difficult conditions, since it was not easy to reach out to interlocutors in the administrations, since they were often occupied with other priorities; It is therefore complex to try to draw conclusions as in-depth as they would have liked. I am not going to list for each of the forty-five special reports and for each of the seventeen public policy evaluation commissions...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u3	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u4	... that we held last week all the essential points that were developed there, but I will share with you some cross-cutting and strong ideas that can be drawn from it. They will be the subject of a report, which will be published in 2020, assessing public policies in the circumstances I have just mentioned, which will be presented in the Committee on Finance. While it is generally gratifying that most budget missions are carried out in accordance with the budgetary authority originally granted, some missions are still under-executed – this is the case with the Overseas Mission – or, conversely, with relatively large over-executions – I am thinking of the Cohesion of Territories mission, the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities mission, or the Security Mission. However, under-execution or over-execution often focuses on only one or two programs within the mission. For the mission "Sustainable ecology, development and mobility", the programme "Energy, climate and post-mines" is experiencing, as the Special Rapporteur Julien Aubert pointed out, an overexpenditure of EUR 230 million compared to the initial appropriations of just under EUR 600 million, due to an erroneous forecast of expenditure due to conversion premiums for polluting vehicles. When there is a large and, above all, a recurring gap between implementation and authorization for a budgetary mission, the method used must be questioned. This is what our Special Rapporteurs have done for the mission "Immigration, Asylum and Integration", Jean-Noël Barrot and Stella Dupont, asking for an expert assessment of the methodology for calculating expenditure for the coming year. This adversarial expertise can help to better understand recurring mistakes, but above all to correct them, and thus to make progress towards the smoothing of our budget and its transparency. We were also able to note the importance, for some missions, of the leftovers to be paid. The "Defence" mission – for which it is quite classic – and the "Relationship with local and regional authorities" mission are the main ones involved. These outstanding liabilities are due in particular to the importance of certain investment projects or programmes that span many years. However, their growth remains worrisome, especially for the mission "Culture", which recorded a rapid increase in the remaining payments – around 18% in 2019. Supplementary budgets, special accounts, assigned taxes or tax expenditures... all of these mechanisms blur the readability of the accounts for Parliament. That is the regret of all the special rapporteurs as well as the judges of the Court of Auditors. The issue of funds without legal personality has also been raised on several occasions. These funds are problematic because they do not meet well-established governance rules. In addition, the monitoring of their expenditures is often imperfect. Thus, the way in which the Innovation and Industry Fund consumes – or rather does not consume – the credits allocated to it has been denounced. In the current context, where revenues are scarce and their relevant use is crucial, the issue is extremely relevant. The impact of the crisis has been measured by the special rapporteurs with great care – even though, as I said in the preamble, it was a very special assessment exercise. The evolution of certain budgetary missions shows that social shock absorbers played a full part during this period, in particular the mission "Cohesion of the territories", which includes housing subsidies, or the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities", which finances certain social benefits. Many state operators, many special rapporteurs said, are expected to see a significant decrease in their resources, both in the field of education and in the field of culture – less 80 million euros for the Louvre, less 40 million euros for Versailles, for example – transport or exports. It is clear that these operators will experience at least one difficult year, which raises the question of the extent and modalities of the financial support they will need. Will it only be necessary to bring budgetary appropriations, or to increase the ceilings for certain affected taxes, or even to create new ones – which I do not recommend? Our special rapporteur for the "Heritage" programme, Gilles Carrez, has made a very interesting proposal concerning large cultural establishments for which the loss of revenue is considerable: these operators should be allowed to borrow funds from the savings fund of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. The booklet A overflows with unused money: use it wisely, it would cost far less than paying resources that do not finance anything and therefore do nothing. The crisis could also hit the budgets of certain state administrations, which are already constrained and fragile. Unsurprisingly, the crisis also weakens the finances of local and regional authorities, both in terms of revenue and expenditure. It may be feared that in this context it will exacerbate the difficulties encountered and make it even more difficult to achieve public policy objectives. You are trying to respond to this, Minister, through this third amending finance bill, which proposes quite exceptional support for local authorities as early as 2020. However, this overall weakness could be transformed into an asset, if not a force, if the crisis led us to decide, to make explicit choices in favour of certain expenditure and, conversely, to abandon or reduce some others. There is an urgent need to streamline our spending. This means, of course, that the priority of measures that had been introduced into the 2020 budget will have to be reconsidered. Are they relevant or even indispensable six months ago still today? One can think, for example, of the increase in the solidarity tax on air tickets. Similarly, the reform of the tax reduction for corporate patronage, which was widely debated here and which could already be regarded as a risk for maintaining the level of patronage, is not becoming problematic in the current context?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u6	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] I will conclude by recalling that we often see what we want to see, that we often also demonstrate what we have decided to demonstrate, but that I nevertheless believe, with even greater force, that this crisis shows that the solutions for France are not a question of means, but of the allocation of resources. The crisis has shown that France spends more than many other countries in many sectors, almost all of them, especially in the health sector. But is cost-effectiveness the right one? This is the key question of any mechanism for evaluating public policies. The answer is not in the cumulative and permanent increase in resources, but in the effectiveness of the resources allocated and therefore in their distribution, i.e. in the organization. The accumulation of means is a practical alibi to mask the weaknesses, rigidity and heaviness of our organizations. If we could learn the lessons of this crisis, at least in prioritizing our public spending, France would take a big step!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u7	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u8	I'm sure he agrees with Eric Woerth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u9	This third spring edition of the evaluation was of course special. However, the Finance Committee has been able to adapt rapidly, focusing its work on the impact of the health crisis of the Covid-19 on credits and public policies financed by the State. I stress the high quality of the work of the special rapporteurs – I was able to see it at the four major public policy assessment meetings that took place. I thank them once again for their thorough studies, for the expertise that each of them has now acquired and which is extremely valuable to us. Thanks to them, despite the exceptional circumstances, this exercise of the Finance Committee has again come to power this year. Let us recall that we have benefited from the assistance of the Government, which I thank for having tabled the annual performance reports earlier in order to allow parliamentarians a longer time for analysis, which is useful and has been appreciated. At the same time, the Court of Auditors has advanced the publication of its budget implementation notes and its report on the State budget. I would like to thank his judges for their efforts to ensure that Parliament has quality information that can be used in a timely manner. The spring of the evaluation is taking place on a long-term basis and I hope that we will continue to do so next year. [[Smile]] Beyond the public policy evaluation exercise, the spring of the evaluation has since its creation strengthened the control of budgetary implementation. This is in no way to be overlooked, because it is by questioning the right ones as well as the bad surprises of a budget execution that Parliament reinforces the scope of parliamentary authorisation. I repeat once again: more spring, less fall, more control and evaluation, less time to authorize. The launch of programming and the consolidation of management since 2017 have allowed for a consistent execution of programming in 2019, as we will mention during the review of the settlement law and as, moreover, most of the rapporteurs, on all the benches of our assembly, have been able to see about the programs they are responsible for. State spending increased by €6 billion in 2019, due in particular to the €4 billion increase in business premium credits. The CEPP, the Public Policy Evaluation Commissions, provided initial evidence of the main deviations observed from the forecast. Thus, for the mission "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities", reported by Stella Dupont, the unexpected dynamism of the activity bonus and the allowance for disabled adults, whose forecast is expected to improve in 2021. The "Work and Employment" mission was also over-executed, which is due in particular to the abundance of a competition fund to finance the investment plan in skills, as Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas recalled. Some programmes have more recurrent overruns, which, moreover, weakens the scope of programming. Jean-Noël Barrot showed us that this was the case for the funding of the asylum-seeker's allowance. Several sub-executions, on the other hand, called upon the special rapporteurs. This is partly the case of the "Public Action and Transformation" mission, of which I have previously been rapporteur and which is now reported by Benjamin Dirx. Even though the transformation momentum is progressing, I share his disappointment at the low rate of investment. We need to restore ambition to this mission, make it more agile and make public transformation programs more effective. Similarly, the Overseas Mission is experiencing significant under-executions for the second consecutive year, as Olivier Serva pointed out. An effort must certainly be made in the field of programming, with an improvement in the control of works for the investments carried out by the programme "Conditions of living overseas". As far as the theme of the Special Rapporteurs' assessment – the impact of the crisis in 2020 – is concerned, I will make no more than Eric Woerth's list of these mission-by-mission impacts: I will address only a few of them. The impact of the crisis on the state budget reflects first of all its impact on the most affected sectors. Emilie Bonnivard's report on tourism...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u10	Very good report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u11	... thus gives a realistic picture of the very difficult situation of this sector and its worrying prospects in the medium term. I do not agree with all the proposals in this report, but we share the objective of supporting this vital sector. We will have the opportunity to come back to this when we look at the next PLFR, or draft amending finance bill, and to support this sector even more. The plan announced by the Government is in the right direction, but we can do more. The fabric of our TPEs and SMEs is weakened by the crisis. Xavier Roseren and Olivia Gregoire draw up several guidelines to support their cash flow, particularly with regard to payment deadlines. The Special Rapporteurs were not really convinced by the use of the Innovation and Industry Fund,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u12	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u13	... which the Court of Auditors had already criticized on several occasions and against which Valérie Rabault, CAS rapporteur – special purpose account – "State financial participations", had also made regular criticisms. The French abroad were hard hit by the consequences of the crisis and the mission "External action of the State", reported by Vincent Ledoux, was asked accordingly. The repatriation, during the last few weeks, of some 190,000 French visitors abroad will be fiscally traced in this mission. The Government has also announced a plan for the health and social support of French residents abroad and a plan for emergency assistance to French education networks abroad, which will require additional funding and which we will be examining very soon under the third PLFR. Covid-19, unfortunately, has an impact on the most fragile of us. The Government has taken measures to strengthen emergency accommodation, such as the extension of the winter truce until 10 July, the increase in the number of places available for the homeless or the opening of specialized accommodation centres for the patients of the covid-19. François Jolivet estimated that in total, the over-execution of emergency accommodation costs could amount to about 400 million euros. The challenge now is to manage the exit from the crisis on this very sensitive point and, as the Special Rapporteur rightly pointed out, one of the problems to be addressed will be the clarification of the competences on the ground between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Housing. Despite the considerable budgetary impact of the crisis on state finances, and therefore on the stock of debt – I would like to give you an appointment later this month for the presentation of the flash mission on public debt – Bénédicte Peyrol recalled, as Special Rapporteur, that it was, to date, expected that the debt burden of the State would reach a very low level, lower than that of 2009. This situation, which may seem paradoxical – we owe ourselves more and the burden of debt costs less – is due in particular to the decisive action of the European Central Bank and to the good perception by the markets of our country's potential for rebound. The "French signature", as they say, is still excellent in the financial markets. We must rejoice and enjoy it, without...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u14	Abusing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u15	...to abuse it – or rather, without losing sight of the importance of paying back a fine debt. We agree on that. There is uncertainty as to the budgetary impact of State guarantee calls to be financed by the "State Financial Commitments" mission. We have also discussed this with Benedict Peyrol and we will have to follow this issue carefully. In fact, the problem is not so much the level of debt as knowing what debt finances. Numerous public investment efforts have been made since 2017 in many areas, such as education, solidarity, justice, defence, the police or the ecological transition, and our special rapporteurs have shown that there are public policies for which the means can be better used – doing better, sometimes with less, sometimes with as much and sometimes with the need for a little investment. By listening to them, however, I note that there are still structural needs to be strengthened or transformed. We have investment needs to improve the quality of our public services and to continue our efforts. Some parts of our public policies could not be transformed because we could not inject the investment that was then needed. However, we can also take advantage of the exit from the crisis by using debt to choose public policy areas in which we can invest. It doesn't necessarily take a lot of money, but it can be a click to generate leverage in terms of public transformation and private investment. It is therefore essential that we redefine and re-appropriate the collective priorities that can ensure our social and national cohesion and in which we must invest when considering future financial texts of our mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this spring of the evaluation was an effective and useful exercise, a little less publicized and less visible than the other years, because it was carried out on Zoom,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u16	Reports have been forgotten!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u17	...but I assure you that we will be able to make use of this work in the weeks and months ahead, and I will give you an appointment immediately afterwards for the consideration of the bill and, above all, for the third PLFR, and even more...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u18	[[Smile on the benches of the LR group]] You didn't quote Marc Le Fur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u19	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and Acting Together groups]] But the president had done it and you saw that we were complete! I would like to give you an appointment in the fall for the FLP, the finance bill, so that we can use this work to better authorize the budget for the following years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u20	Mr Fabien Roussel, first speaker, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u21	The revolution is coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u22	To give parliamentarians more control and power: who in this House could oppose such an ambition? In any case, the objective put forward at the time of the creation of this spring's evaluation could have been such as to bring us together. Unfortunately, the account is not there, for reasons that are due both to the form and, this year, to the exceptional circumstances that we are going through. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] On the form, first, most of the special reports coming from the majority, it is very difficult for Communist Members to make their voices heard. Thus, of the forty-five special reports published this year, only one, that of the mission "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation", returned to a member of our group, my friend Jean-Paul Dufrègne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u23	But with what success!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u24	With what success, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u25	[[Smile]] Mr. Dufrègne is also a veteran!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u26	Without another rapporteur, and with this report alone, our group does not have the means to carry out this task and, without rapporteur, we have only two minutes of intervention on the various missions. Two minutes, Minister, to judge and to evoke hundreds of millions of euros, even tens of billions! How can we, in two minutes, present our views on budgets that have a direct impact on the lives of our fellow citizens and on our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u27	That's why you're wasting time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u28	Under such conditions, the control of government action derives more from a succession of self-satisfaction than from a genuine exchange with parliamentarians in all their diversity. This is a first regret. But it is even more regrettable than these problems of form. In the current context, deciding to assess the consequences of the budgetary tsunami related to the management of the crisis of the Covid -19 did not suffer any challenges. Obviously, heavy unforeseen expenses had to be incurred and their control by parliamentarians was evident. But again, unfortunately, there is a gulf between words and deeds. As a result of the state of emergency, which we would like to see quickly lifted, many measures have been taken without any real control or contribution from us parliamentarians. I am thinking, for example, of the EUR 20 billion in aid granted to strategic sectors and large companies such as Air France, Renault and, most recently, Airbus. This is very good, but under what conditions have these aids been paid, and under what criteria? We haven't been able to discuss it here. The same applies to aid to the poorest, which amounts to EUR 890 million in the last PLFR: it is impossible to talk about the amount of aid, its frequency, or the target people. Unfortunately, Members are asked to vote on these enormous appropriations every time, but they are not able to intervene on the criteria for allocation or on the amount or scope of these aids. Meanwhile, some large multinationals, particularly in the automotive and textile sectors – including those in our region, Minister –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u29	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u30	...use the current crisis to deploy long-awaited social plans. It is regrettable that the State is not more demanding towards them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u31	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u32	In a way, it would have been necessary for the State to take action against those who seek to finance their job losses and the relocation of part of their activity with public money. How can we imagine, for example, that Renault, a company owned 15% by the state, could destroy 4,600 jobs and close factories in France with our money, taxpayers' money, even though this company had already announced these social plans in February? I could add to this list Conforama, Camaïeu, the Vivarte group, and even Arc International which, if we do not intervene quickly, could relocate part of its production to Russia or the United Arab Emirates. It is therefore urgent to regain control, to better control the public money paid to companies, especially to the larger ones, so that this serves the country by developing employment and maintaining it in France. It is in this spirit that we propose – this is the revolution! – finally nationalize a large systemic bank in our country,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u33	Ah! This is modern!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u34	... in order to be able to directly help our SMEs and TPEs, some of which cannot benefit from the EMP, the state-guaranteed loan, and to intervene in the capital of the groups, while the BPI, the public investment bank, does not do so because, as we know well here, it only helps those who are well, and not those who are suffering.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u35	Oh, stop! This is crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u36	Public money, that of our taxes, must be used to defend the interests of the nation, not the interests of the market and of finance. That is what we would have liked to have talked about in the spring of the evaluation. In such an exercise, however, we have very little room for manoeuvre, when the budget of the nation itself is subject to the approval of the European Commission. It's the truth, and you have to say it! It is also in the spring that France, on behalf of the Stability Pact, has an obligation to transmit to Brussels our plans for public finances, expenditure and growth. At the end of the year, we must also send the budget of France to Brussels, hoping to get a good score, if it is not even by crossing our fingers in the hope of not getting a break. This submission of the nation's budget to the European Commission is completely unacceptable. Where are the sovereignty of France and that of Parliament in the choices we want to make? On 29 May, we celebrated the fifteenth anniversary of the referendum on the European Constitution, rejected by 54.6% of the French, a referendum which, in the marble of a European constitutional treaty, led to the loss of France's sovereignty and the placing of our country under the supervision of Europe and the financial markets. We are among those who have always defended the independence of our country and the sovereignty of our people, simply to express our desire to remain in control of our political and budgetary choices, without suffering the dictates of the financial markets and austerity policies of the European Commission or the dictates of other countries. Together with others in our country, we fought in the name of the values of freedom, equality and fraternity that form the entire legacy of the French Revolution. That is why we are still refusing today to abandon our fundamental prerogatives, those which allow a nation to adopt its own budget, in line with the expectations of its citizens, without being obliged to implement reforms imposed by the European Union or other austerity policies, as provided for in the 2005 Constitutional Treaty. That is why we say that it would be time for France to act in favour of another Europe, in particular by choosing other criteria for the use of the wealth of our country and of the European Union. The pandemic exposed the unbearable flaws of a fully profit-oriented and competitive system. This model is unable to meet the health and social expectations of European peoples. The one to which we aspire presupposes other priorities, in the service of man and the planet. That is why we repeat that it is not for the people or the world of work to pay for the crisis, including through an increasing debt that has been contracted from the financial markets. We will therefore be very vigilant about the use of public funds. The spring timetable for the evaluation requires us to deliver our conclusions today, while we are still at the heart of the crisis and a new draft amending finance bill was presented this morning in the Council of Ministers and now in the Finance Committee. I would like to point out that in the ensuing PLFRs, we Members have no room for manoeuvre to increase public expenditure and create a burden in the budget: Article 40 unquestionably binds Parliament. We cannot but deplore the lack of democracy in the management of the budget. Instead of being confined to the opposition, see us rather as a component of this assembly, which represents part of the convictions that are expressed in the country. We are not in opposition, we are a force for proposals and we simply want to express here the point of view of a part of the population. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, as well as on several SOC benches]] As I said at the beginning of my speech, we can only welcome the intentions of the spring of the evaluation. However, we immediately send him, and it is seasonal, an appreciation in the form of encouragement: "can – clearly – do better". The road ahead, indeed, is still long before this exercise not only meets the expectations of the French, but also gives parliamentarians a real power of control, respecting the plurality of their voices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u37	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u38	Mr Joël Giraud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u39	Minister, at the last sitting on the Finance Bill for 2020, you said to me, "Love lasts three years." This year, the spring of the evaluation blows its third candle, in a very special context. We can say, I believe, that this exercise, now well installed in the landscape of our assembly, will last longer than love and will last even beyond our mandate. As the former general rapporteur of the budget, I am proud to have contributed to anchoring, with the help of President Woerth and thanks to the initial impetus of the first whip of the LaREM Group's Finance Committee, Amélie de Montchalin, this exercise of evaluation, which is both demanding and comprehensive of our public policies. "Assessing is creating," Nietzsche said. The evaluation of public policies is not just an exercise of administrative control, but also aimed at ensuring that our citizens benefit from the policies we vote for. Evaluation is therefore a matter of policy in the noble sense of the term. To evaluate, it is to ensure that when the national representation votes credits to hire teachers, they are indeed present in the classes of our children, that when we increase the activity bonus, millions of modest households in Marseille, Tourcoing or Briançon can put a little butter in spinach...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u41	... or that when we want to improve the country's competitiveness, thousands of entrepreneurs can work more freely. Assessing is also a diagnostic. It is a reflection in our honourable assembly of the real advances we see every year – whatever the colour of the majority, of course – as well as the difficulties our fellow citizens are experiencing, whether they are wage earners, artisans, traders, civil servants or entrepreneurs. Where the heart of the Republic beats, the real must always appear. Assessing is also progress. I note in particular that this year, despite a particularly difficult context, our special rapporteurs have produced a remarkable work – a sign, I believe, that the national representation as a whole has seized the spring of the evaluation. Something tells me that the rise of this exercise is not over and that, over time, its importance will grow – I wanted to reassure the speaker of the communist group on this point. From the point of view of the past three years, I hope that we will consider that we have simultaneously enabled the French economy to restart and the purchasing power of households to increase, and that we have lowered taxes while cleaning up our public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u42	Not bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u43	We have somehow realized the quadrature of the circle of French public finances. As our country and its European partners were in the process of divergence, France became again, before the crisis, Europe's economic engine. This allowed us to tackle the crisis of the covid-19 in a relatively good situation and to finance, under excellent conditions, massive measures to support businesses and households. If no one can predict what tomorrow will be done, I know, in any case, that our country has the fundamental foundations for facing the major challenges ahead: climate change, European integration and the improvement of social cohesion. "Between possible and impossible, two letters and a state of mind": let us make our own these words of General de Gaulle. Let us be his worthy heirs in the face of the difficulties before us. For my part, I'm optimistic. Our country has always managed to pass through the trials it has experienced and to emerge much stronger. We were able to create social security in the wake of the horrors of the Second World War. We will be able to create a more sustainable and supportive world tomorrow while maintaining financial stability, which is the cornerstone of our independence and sovereignty. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Unlike a former President of the Republic, I do not know whether, thanks to the forces of the spirit, we will not leave. In any case, I am proud that we can bequeath this fall supplement to the legislation that we call the spring of the evaluation to the benefit of the French as an inheritance to our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u44	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u45	The third spring edition of the evaluation took place in an unprecedented form and context. Indeed, the special rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance have set aside the evaluation work they have undertaken with a view to making an initial diagnosis of the financial impact of the health crisis. The Republican Group agrees with the approach taken. Its eight special rapporteurs took part in this task without ignoring its limitations. As Special Rapporteur of the "Health" mission and in view of the current context, I would particularly like to report on my work on the EPRUS, the Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Facility, which, from 2007 to 2016, managed the health reserve and strategic civilian health stocks before being absorbed into Public Health France. Last week, I briefly presented the conclusions of this work to the Finance Committee. I would now like to elaborate on them before you, after observing that in its report, the mission of information on the impact, management and consequences in all its dimensions of the Coronavirus epidemic considered that the integration of EPRUS into Public Health France had "incited criticism since the beginning of the crisis". In this context, it is good to answer a few simple questions. When and why was the EPRUS created? What's the record of his actions? Why was it removed? To answer these questions, I have consulted the debates and parliamentary proceedings as well as the reports of the Court of Auditors, stopping in 2016 so as not to interfere with the work of the fact-finding mission and the committee of inquiry. I come back to my first question. The EPRUS was created in 2007 following the passage of a bill introduced by Senator UMP Francis Giraud. Our colleague started from a simple observation: as health threats increased, our response device was not adapted, as the dramatic episode of the heat wave had reminded us. The law of 5 March 2007, adopted unanimously, led to the creation of the EPRUS, which was entrusted with a dual responsibility: the organization of the health reserve, which had just been established, and the management of strategic civilian health stocks. The EPRUS was baptized with fire in 2009, at the time of influenza A, before continuing its mission until May 1, 2016. In hindsight, what's his record? It is positive with regard to the management of sanitary stocks, since EPRUS has been able to build up large and varied stocks before reducing them as a result of a new governmental doctrine. On the other hand, it is in half-tone about the management of the health reserve. It was intended to bring together 10,000 professionals; However, in 2015, only 2500 of them were composing it, of which only 326 had been mobilised in the previous 12 months. This nuanced assessment of the EPRUS actions, combined with the desire to simplify the health organisation, explains the abolition of this establishment in 2016. Although Parliament did not object to it, it agreed with a twofold recommendation: to maintain the flexibility of the former EPRUS teams within Public Health France and to preserve the financial resources dedicated to the fulfilment of their tasks. According to one of its former Directors General, the EPRUS was "a health commando of twenty to thirty people". Public Health France is a structure of 500 people, which has advantages and disadvantages. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] My research ended in 2016, and I did not try to find out whether or not the recommendations made by Parliament had been implemented. It will be up to the committee of inquiry to carry out this work in order to determine whether or not this health commando has been disarmed in recent years. It is very important that we be able to control not only the enforcement of the law, but also the consideration of the recommendations made by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u46	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u47	Here we are gathered for the third spring edition of the evaluation, an institutional initiative that meets the promise and the will of the President of the Republic to give effect to this constitutional prerogative of our Assembly. We measure, year after year, the usefulness and importance of this new appointment in the parliamentary calendar, as it contributes to fuelling a virtuous circle, from the evaluation of public policies to political action. Parliament grows and honours itself when it monitors and evaluates the implementation of the nation's budget and public policies on behalf of the French people. "It is their assessment that makes treasures and jewels of all things evaluated. It is through evaluation that the value is fixed: without evaluation, the nut of existence would be hollow. Thus spoke Zarathustra, in his great wisdom, to which Joël Giraud referred a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u48	Nietzsche again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u49	Was it necessary, in this year marked by a triple health, economic and social crisis, to give up the exercise again? It would have been a mistake, and I am pleased, with the members of the MODEM and related groups, that the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and his rapporteur-general wanted to invite us to assess, together with the implementation of the 2019 budget, the impact of the crisis on the mid-term impact of the 2020 budget. With regard to the 2019 enforcement, we have several reasons for satisfaction. For the second year in a row, the Government passed decrees in advance, which had not happened in 30 years. Of the 214 recommendations of the Court of Auditors that were followed up in 2018, more than half were fully or partially followed up. The sub-budgetings identified by the Court amount to EUR 1.4 billion out of 330 billion expenditure, or less than 0.5%, which is much lower than in previous years. Nevertheless, there is still a long way to go. As the Court of Auditors points out, a quarter of the financing of public policies does not go through the general budget of the State, which does not facilitate the management or evaluation of the State. This includes tax expenditure for EUR 100 billion, taxes and taxes for EUR 30 billion and funds without legal personality, which we have had an opportunity to discuss. On the other hand, although sub-budgetizations can now be seen as a vestige of the past, or of the old world, as some say, they nevertheless continue to disturb the management of two missions in particular. These are, first and foremost, the appropriations programmed to finance the external operations and internal missions of the Ministry of Armed Forces. They remain EUR 445 million lower than identified needs. However, and it's happy, the sub-donation reached its lowest level in 2019 since 2012, thanks to the gradual increase in the provision entered in the original finance law. Secondly, assistance to asylum seekers has been the subject of chronic underbudgeting for eleven years. I would like to dwell on this subject, which is at the heart of the mission of which I am co-rapporteur with Stella Dupont. This expenditure is systematically undervalued in the design of the budget model, despite the recurrent alerts of the Court of Auditors and the special rapporteurs before us. The source of this mystery is probably an underestimation of the growth in the number of asylum applications and an overestimation of the administration's capacity to reduce the processing times for asylum applications. So we asked the Ministry of the Interior to give us its method of calculation in the slightest detail, so that we could discuss it during the review of the 2021 Finance Bill. The over-implementation of Program 303 "Immigration and Asylum" would not be a problem if it were not systematically offset by an equally chronic under-implementation of the other program of the Mission, Program 104 "Integration and Access to French Nationality". Let us pay attention to the fact that the latter programme, which has been largely revalued over the past two years, in line with the Government's commitments to the integration of refugees, can be fully implemented and that the underlying policies can have their full effect! Turning now to the impact of the triple crisis we are experiencing on the implementation of the budget, I would like to dwell for a moment on the notable points highlighted by the special reports of Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement. My colleague Bruno Duvergé worked on the civil security budget, a budget that was heavily sought during the crisis, either to support the operational activities of firefighters or that of the means of transport, in particular helicopters, which enabled patients to be distributed very quickly to various parts of the territory. Our colleague concludes that the implementation of the 2019 budget has been rigorous. However, as every year, tensions have emerged with regard to intervention expenditure, which is likely to increase in 2020. Containment and sanitary regulations have also made the organisation of forest fire control more complex. We will pay particular attention to this in the coming months. Mohamed Laqhila issued a special report on the priority neighbourhoods of the city's politics, strongly hit by the covid-19. In these neighbourhoods, the State has taken swift action to support the most vulnerable populations and to ensure an absolutely decisive educational continuity. The neighbourhoods affected by the city's policy, sometimes more severely affected by the crisis than others, will need special attention at the time of the recovery plan. The evaluation of existing policies by our colleague – in particular that of the tax expenditure policy, the effectiveness of which remains to be proven – must make it possible to target this recovery in the best possible way. Jean-Paul Mattéi's special report deals with the special trust account "Management of the State's real estate assets". Our colleague questioned the financial balance of this special-purpose account. If real estate divestitures have created a comfortable surplus, public fees are still too low – they will be even more so in 2020, as a result of the health crisis. The latter, however, makes it possible to envisage a paradigm shift in the State's real estate policy. New working practices, including teleworking, developed during the crisis, as well as digital transformation in the relationship with the public, more than ever necessary, should encourage us to rethink how the State should manage its real estate assets. Sarah El Haïry has worked on topics that matter to her heart: youth and associative life. His work highlights the excellent work of the Youth Experiment Fund, which we would like to see expanded in the coming years. The triple crisis that we are going through has also been a moment of brotherhood for our fellow citizens, which is reflected in their very strong commitment. In the face of the health crisis, the French responded with a tenfold desire to help their compatriots, in particular through the civil reserve system. This commitment may, however, lead to new expenditure, which will have to be financed if necessary. More broadly, the health crisis has shown how essential associations are to the life of the nation. It has also weakened the resources and cash flow of associations, and the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will pay attention to this issue. I would like to thank the officials of the central and deconcentrated administrations, the officials of the State who managed in the emergency and under the conditions imposed by the health crisis new aid, and carried out missions which they had never had to know before. The implementation of the 2020 financial year will no doubt demonstrate the movement of appropriations within the missions and budgetary programmes concerned. We will only be able to fully analyse the impact of these movements in the spring of next year's evaluation. I would also like to welcome the new forms of cooperation between local and national administrations and elected officials, which have been established with local steering committees – in particular for the allocation of aid to enterprises. This spirit of collaboration has made it possible to assess the situation very quickly and to bring up the difficulties on the ground with an efficiency which we will still appreciate in the context of the review of the third PLFR for 2020, which will soon be placed on the agenda. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Let us hope that these good practices and habits will survive the crisis, because it is our assessment of it that makes the relevance and strength of our public policies. So, Mr President, let me call again Zarathustra's wisdom in this august Chamber to say, with him, that "it is man who put values in things, in order to preserve himself [...] That is why he is called "man", that is, he who evaluates". I am pleased, with the Members of the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement, that, in assessing, we have thus exercised our faculties of men and women of good will, but also fully fulfilled the mission entrusted to us by the constituent of 2008.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u50	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u51	It is interesting, and even indispensable, to want to evaluate public policies. I recognize the merit of trying to do so by putting in place the spring of the evaluation; But let us recognize that you haven't yet, that we haven't found the right formula yet. Of course, the context of a health crisis has hampered parliamentary work, such as any professional activity and many aspects of social life for several months now. However, the chain of fast-paced budget presentations in committee in two days, which is also without the minister's presence, is not satisfactory and leaves me with a sense of frustration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u52	Isn't that enough for you?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u53	This mechanism needs to be reconsidered and other avenues considered. Why, for example, not select four or five cross-cutting fiscal or political missions each year, which would be evaluated for two weeks and give rise to a genuine exchange with the Government? Beyond this point of method, I note that if we have been required to analyse and evaluate the budgetary implementation for 2019, it is difficult, in view of the exceptional situation we are in, not to make some reconciliations with the current situation, as certain links can be established without it being either shortcuts or facilities. That is why I will start by going back to the appropriations of the "Health" mission, particularly on the means granted to ANSP, the National Public Health Agency – or Public Health France. If this agency was relatively unknown to the French a few weeks ago, each of them can now clearly identify it and recognize the essential role it plays in health in our country. However, in 2019, the public service subsidy allocated to it decreased by €6 million, significantly reducing its working capital. In addition, the 2019 Finance Bill reduced the Agency's job path and operating expenditures by almost 5%. This reduction in financial and human resources has had the effect of hindering its proper functioning at the very heart of the health crisis. We can only regret it. However, it should be noted that if the Agency's expenditure is to increase sharply by 2020, this will not have an impact on the "Health" mission because the functioning of Public Health France was transferred to health insurance from 2020 – it was therefore the latter which had to grant the Agency an emergency grant of EUR 4 billion on 30 March last. This change in doctrine regarding the means of the ANSP must be expanded and sustained, as the current and future public health issues are immense. We'll pay attention to it. I very sincerely hope that "the world after" will have nothing to do with the world before, whether in hospital, in EHPAD, in residential institutions for dependent seniors, or in the homes of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u54	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u55	That's the least we can say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u56	I come now to the mission "Cohesion of the territories" and to the appropriations allocated for the energy renovation of the houses. Because we have set ourselves the goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, these credits are of paramount importance. They must allow our country to take full steps towards the energy transition and to respond to the plight of the 12 million modest French people who live in thermal colanders. These thermal colanders have a significant energy cost and can sometimes pose health risks. The objective was to renovate 120,000 housing units in 2019: it was achieved and even exceeded, since 156,000 housing units were renovated. I welcome this, but I am obviously not satisfied with it. To achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, we should renovate 760,000 homes per year for 30 years. We must therefore increase our efforts more than ever. It was the will of the Socialist and related group that proposed a climate premium a few days ago. It aims to address these social, ecological and economic issues and aims to strengthen the energy renewal movement of the private housing stock.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u58	It will also provide a source of sustainable jobs for the entire construction sector, which is a major provider of jobs. The stakes are all the greater in view of the economic consequences of the epidemic. With this scheme, which can cover 100 % of the cost of energy renovation, owners will have nothing to pay at the time of the work, since it is expected that the premium will be paid in the form of an advance. We must at all costs avoid a grey recovery: the recovery must be green. This crisis, more than ever, sounds like a social and ecological ultimatum. Ecology, let's talk about it! The budget implementation note of the Court of Auditors on the mission "Sustainable development and mobility ecology" confirms that we need to do much more. We must pay close attention to this, as it is true that this mission will, I hope, take a prominent place in future public policies. While some mechanisms are moving in the right direction, they must be corrected in order for public action to become more effective. The climate emergency imposes it on us. I am thinking in particular of the bonus-malus and the bonus for conversion, which have been modified and complicated, which has altered their efficiency. Moreover, these devices suffer from inadequate evaluation and largely unstable pilotage. This is also the case with the energy cheque, created in 2015, whose usage rate remains largely inadequate. In 2019, 28% of eligible persons did not benefit. This mechanism, which, however, provides a good response to social and environmental challenges, must therefore be reviewed in order to be fully exploited and genuinely bear fruit. I am even more concerned that tax expenditure, which accounts for almost a third of the appropriations allocated to the mission, is to a large extent unfavourable to the environment and that its link with the policies to which it relates is very inadequate. I also note that the human resources intended for the mission are diminishing: if they do not do everything, they are essential when we have to build a real strategist state in environmental matters – but in this respect we are still far from the point of view. When it is not the staff or the means that are drastically diminishing, when it is not the mechanisms that are becoming increasingly complex, it is the budget implementation itself that is failing and which questions the management of our public finances. I am thinking in particular of the budgetary execution of the mission 'Relations with local and regional authorities', which deserves to be brought back and to be extremely attentive in the context of the third PLFR. Several measures relating to local and regional authorities are at stake. The analysis of the implementation of this mission raises serious concerns. I regret that payment appropriations have decreased by 3.7% in 2019, while expenditure on commitment authorities has actually increased. The result was to dig up the leftovers to be paid: if they already amounted to 3.7 billion euros in 2018, in 2019 they represent the 4.2 billion bagatelle. The Court of Auditors now affirms in its NEB that this upward trend is a legitimate cause for concern, and that the rate of consumption of payment appropriations must be seen as a major point of vigilance for managing administrations. However, on reading the annual performance report, I note that the Government is not in a position to explain this discrepancy. I'm sorry. I come to the budget execution of the "School education" mission, which seems very worrying in view of the importance it attaches, in our view, to our youth and the vitality of our country. For the first time since 2012, an initial finance law provided for a reduction in the job pattern of 1800 full-time equivalents. But, as if that were not enough, the decline is more than double, as we are at 3815 full-time equivalents less. In other words, while the previous majority had shown an unprecedented ambition for national education, you stopped this dynamic and even reversed it. You have abolished more positions than expected in national education, even as the total number of students is increasing and the duplication of classes – a measure I welcome – logically requires more teachers. This policy seems incomprehensible at a time when we lack teachers in schools in our territories. For example, I would like to point out that, at the beginning of the school year, two special aid network posts for pupils in difficulty – RASED – have been abolished in my territory, or that the thirty-seven classes which, on the same day, were left without a teacher because of teachers in training or sick leave. As if this were not enough, the state of school medicine is also worrying. The Court of Auditors is alarmed, in a recent report, by the insufficient rate of medical visits – it stands at less than 20%. However, in a context of a health crisis that had to contain millions of French and children, psychological consequences were to be feared. There is an urgent need to act. I propose, Mr Minister, to authorize an experiment aimed at decentralizing the management of school medicine in a few departments, in connection with city medicine. Finally, with regard to the "School education" mission, the containment of the population has exacerbated educational inequalities to the detriment, once again, of the poorest. While the distance school could represent a transitional solution and a lesser evil, contact was lost, from the beginning of confinement, with at least 8% of students, while school is compulsory and is a factor of personal development and social link, especially during periods of confinement. We must act without delay! While a number of students have been able to recover from, among other things, computer hardware endowments, the inequalities in access to digital technology that underlie social inequalities remain too large. In France, 5% of households do not have access to computer equipment; In rural areas, Internet access is not yet a reality for all households. It is now necessary to take the measure of this phenomenon by improving the digital coverage of the country. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the "Justice" and "Overseas" missions, marked by under-implementation of the budget for jobs. This shows that even when the trend is not towards a reduction in human and financial resources, the Government is finding a way to achieve savings. With regard to the funding allocated in 2019 for the "Justice" mission, the number of posts in the prison administration has increased – I welcome this development – but the reality is more nuanced: the job pattern has been less well executed than in previous years, to a level of 79% compared to 92% in 2018, which represents a differential of 210 posts. Thus, the long-standing understaffing situation of the prison administration persists in practice, despite a theoretical effort. I regret this and it will be necessary to correct the shooting in 2020. Finally, for the second consecutive year, the Court of Auditors pointed to a massive under-implementation of the overseas mission's appropriations, with a gap of more than 7% between programming and implementation. This places this mission on the second step of the state mission podium in underperformance. When you know the challenges facing ultramarine territories, it's a sad record! [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] In conclusion, I would like to stress that speaking in this debate was a very difficult exercise for everyone, when we still do not have the comprehensive report that we should have commented on today. This report should reach us in a few weeks: it is baroque to say the least!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u60	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ms. Pires Beaune was entitled to fifteen minutes; she did not receive preferential treatment, even if it might have been normal. Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u61	[[Smile]] Charles, don't forget to tell the minister that you weren't there at Raymond Barre's time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u62	The spring of the evaluation is an innovation that was experienced this year for a third fiscal year, in a context of great instability and uncertainty. As you know, any progress made to ensure that our House fully grasps its powers of budgetary control and evaluation is strongly supported by the Libertés et territoires Group. This power, enshrined in article 14 of the Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights, is an inherent principle of any democracy. It is now split in two in its exercise, with what could be called an autumn of authorization – when we vote on the original finance law – and the spring of evaluation. In recent years, we have had too few opportunities to welcome the progress of Parliament's prerogatives, instead raising us against its weakening. However, we must not confuse the monitoring of the execution of the previous fiscal year with the debate on the following year's finance bill! The evaluation of the previous fiscal year makes it possible to improve budgetary authorities by allowing us to be more in line with reality. It is a circle that should be virtuous and that we want to strengthen. We can regret that, like all of our work, those of the spring of the 2020 evaluation suffered from the consequences of the health crisis that we are going through. Nevertheless, our group agrees with the choice not to cancel them, but to keep them in a lighter form. I would like to welcome this initiative by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Eric Woerth, who shows that Parliament, even in times of crisis, retains its power to monitor and evaluate public policies. Further difficulty, this monitoring work is taking place in a very fragile budgetary environment. This very morning and at the beginning of this afternoon, we took note of the third amending budget for the year. Minister, are we going to continue at this rate of one text per month?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u63	[[Smile]] We'll try to tighten them up a little more!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u64	Can we hope for a break in August before we resume in September?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u65	I'm at your disposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u66	You will hold the historic record of the number of amending financial laws over a single fiscal year.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u67	Everything's growing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u68	The context is for something, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u69	I've had a year when there were three of them; You're going to make four, maybe even five... The spring of this year's evaluation is devoted to the impact of the current health crisis on the mobilisation of budgetary appropriations and the deployment of public policies. As we have seen in our discussions in the Committee on Finance, certain missions have been particularly affected. I am thinking in particular, and to mention only one, of the "Culture" mission. The health crisis has made it difficult for almost all mission operators, especially those usually with significant own resources. It is also paradoxical that those who had the most own resources are the most affected, and that those who had public funds are less affected. I would like to point out that creative operators are dependent on their ability to operate rooms and exhibition spaces, all the more so as they have been strongly encouraged to develop their own resources. Thus, the Directorate-General for Artistic Creation estimates that the budgetary impact of the crisis on operators should amount to more than EUR 100 million for the mission's "Creation" programme. In the face of this situation, the State has mobilized to provide the cultural sector with all the measures to support the economy. At the end of May, the Solidarity Fund benefited EUR 137 million from the arts, entertainment and recreational activities sector; 1.2 billion loans out of 77.6 billion – the figure is now over 100 billion – have been secured by the state for the same sector. Finally, tax carryovers amounted to EUR 42 million out of a total of EUR 2.3 billion. Assistance to this sector must be provided in cooperation with local and regional authorities. That is why we support the idea of the Special Rapporteur, Dominique David, who wishes to map the funds mobilized by the local authorities to ensure a harmonious distribution in the territory and to coordinate their action with that of the State through the regional directorates of cultural affairs – DRAC. A word about the mission "Cohesion of the territories", also particularly mobilized, particularly with regard to programme 177 "Accommodation, journey to housing and integration of vulnerable people". Thus, the arrangements put in place by the Government, including the opening of an additional 21,000 places by 4 May 2020, have made it possible to provide care for people who are poorly housed during the state of emergency. It should be noted that the finance law for 2020 provided EUR 1.9 billion for emergency accommodation policy. While this amount was already lower than that implemented in 2019 – EUR 2.1 billion – we already know that the envelope will be largely insufficient to cover the new needs related to the health crisis. The Special Rapporteur, François Jolivet, himself states: €200 million would be needed in order not to precarise the associations managing the accommodation and reintegration structures. Why did the Government not provide for any increase in appropriations in the two amending finance laws that we voted for? When I went through the third law of amending finance, I did not spontaneously find any measures to that effect...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u70	Maybe not spontaneously, but by reading the report, you would have found some, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u71	There are!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u72	I had the text in my hands three minutes before you arrived, hence the question mark.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u73	[[Smile]] We'll book you a little room, so you can explain yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u74	I congratulate you on listening to our colleague Jolivet! Another challenge, which should inevitably lead to an increase in the Mission's appropriations: a further postponement of the implementation of the housing aid reform, originally scheduled for May 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u75	That's the fifth report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u76	You are exaggerating, dear colleague: this is only the fourth time that the reform has been postponed. You're always exaggerating a little, Mr. Le Fur,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u77	That's what makes her charm!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u78	...but you were in the right direction! This reform was intended to save some €1.2 billion, but I believe it has gone away!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u79	It was a bad reform!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u80	Finally, the debates we had in committee during the spring of the evaluation highlighted the fact that the current situation, which is quite original, can be described as an "open bar" budget. Several missions bear witness to this. In the amending finance laws, the Government has made the choice of massive use of public spending to avoid economic and social collapse. Our group does not dispute this choice. However, we call for vigilance: we must initiate a revival while ensuring a serious budget, so that the situation can be sustainable in the long term. This spring's evaluation and information report should be of great interest. [[Ms Olivia Gregoire protested]] Personal note: I have always regretted that almost all the special rapporteurs raise only one problem, that of insufficient resources. Listen to me, Mrs. Gregoire, before you protest! Very few are the ones – aren't they, Mr. ex-rapporteur-general? – making real savings proposals. From this point of view, they do not provide much assistance to the Government. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is above all a political practice of Parliament, which allows it to put itself in a constructive logic of monitoring and evaluation, beyond the majority fact. This is essential for the proper functioning of our institutions, because only the budgetary process is able to frame governance and policy choices in each area in a concrete and realistic way. In the next stimulus budget – in any case, in the original finance law and the social security financing law for 2021 – we will have to ensure the means of our ambitions and limit the use of debt, that is, to make savings. I am surprised that in this situation no one is calling for savings on what is less urgent, less priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u81	For example? What are your proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u82	That, Minister, is the conclusion of this little point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u83	So we won't know them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u84	As far as I'm concerned, I've always made proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the LR groups and Action together. – Mr. Jérôme Lambert also applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is a little meditation on this spring's evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u85	It's always good to meditate in spring...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u86	It's Lao Tseu!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u87	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u88	Yesterday afternoon, the majority and the Government welcomed the beneficial effects of their action on our ability to cope with the crisis of the Covid-19. Well, we're going to borrow their logic to do this evaluation. On that occasion, Minister, you stated that this crisis was not the result of a government decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u90	You're right:...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u91	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u92	...it is the result of several government decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u93	Ah, did we create the virus?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u94	If the pandemic plunges the country into a health, economic and social crisis, it is because of the neoliberal policies that you have pursued over the last three decades and that you have continuously accelerated. You have not opted for a transformation, but for an accentuation. With the ELAN law – the evolution of housing, development and digital technology – you have precarized the leases and pushed the lenders to sell the social housing. Poorly housed people suffered directly from your policy during confinement. With the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, says CETA, you have continued cutting our industrial fabric and increasing our dependence on distant production. It was this type of move that led to shortages of masks, oxygen, medicine. With the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, you have removed the public hospital from its users, cut into the number of beds; In short, you have achieved savings on health and on its staff. I thank you for the other points, but everyone knows in what state of weakening of public services we have approached the period. Only the public service can respond to brutal and unexpected shocks; The private sector, on the other hand, is waiting to receive assistance from the State. To return to the 2019 fiscal year, I will focus, for example, on describing the education and research situation. As the number of students increases, you remove 3816 full-time equivalents – FTEs – from national education, as Ms Pires Beaune pointed out. In kindergarten, the number of pupils per teacher is twenty-three, seven more than the average for the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries. In elementary and college, too, this number is above the average standard. Duplicating barely lowers this average and covers only two levels of class. In these conditions, how well to follow students at a distance? How do I comply with sanitary instructions if the classrooms are already overloaded and if one school in four does not have enough water points? But you're still cutting. And when you don't cut, you don't want to put the money. The number of students increased by 2.1% between 2017 and 2018. However, the appropriations for the 150 programme are only increasing by 0.46% this year. The budget per student has decreased by 10 per cent in five years. While the credits should be increased, you decide to reduce the number of students by selection. In the annual performance project, you even talk about "candidates". Colleagues, newly graduated high school students are not candidates; They do not ask you for a favor; They are entitled to higher education and the country needs trained young people. Among those you give the privilege of training, 20% live in poverty. For them, barely a crumb: 200 euros, less than a week of survival at the poverty line. And again, it is not to say anything about young PhD students, paid less than the SMIC and the status of individual, who are waiting for their salaries for months. That's how you reward excellence! It is also to forget the incumbent researchers whose credits are shrinking each year, when we drink the CAC 40 of tax credits research, supposedly intended for innovation. I am thinking of the case of Bruno Canard, a specialist in viruses, and in particular coronaviruses, who has lost to the taste of his hard work. Tell us again that the crisis is not your fault! There's so much to say, but I have to finish. Since it is a question of evaluating you, on behalf of the teaching and research that you mislead to every degree, I give you the score of zero out of twenty: no effort, no progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u95	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u96	At least one point, anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u97	I'll try to make progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u98	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u99	In 2018, the spring of the evaluation was inaugurated, with a formidable ambition to strengthen the powers of public policy evaluation of the National Assembly, an evaluation function explicitly recognized in article 24 of our Constitution. The purpose was to take concerted action in the context of the review of the proposed Regulations, which established the accounts of the State of the previous year. Eighteen public policy evaluation committees were to involve the Finance Committee and the standing committees, in the presence of ministers, on each budget mission. We arrived, newly elected, with the ambition to carry a revolution in an assembly that we imagined a little over-yearly and partially disconnected. We have made a clean table of what already exists, but perhaps the House did not expect us to do so. Are we more effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u100	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u101	In reality, we continue to talk between ourselves and for ourselves,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u103	... without real opening on the outside. In the House itself, if we do not belong to the Finance Committee, it is difficult to know what is being done and to access the information.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u104	That's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u105	I know for having been draftsman of the Energy, Climate and Postmines programme on behalf of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning. The work that I have been able to do in this context has been carried out without any real consultation with the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance and without any connection with the other rapporteurs. Today, I do not have a thoughtful opinion on the reports that have been prepared in the spring of the evaluation: they have been tabled too late, and some are still not accessible. I do not think it is reasonable to imagine that we can work in less than a few days on such important matters, as was the case this morning when the Finance Committee examined the third PLFR. Yesterday, we attended a debate entitled "How the sincerity and the restoration of public finances since 2017 promote support for the economy in the crisis of the covid -19? » Many colleagues have stressed the extent to which this formulation itself is self-congratulation. It is to forget the work of those who preceded us, and also the fact that we have been able to benefit from developments that are not entirely in the hands of the public authorities. A little humility seems necessary in these uncertain times. It was decided to direct the spring of the evaluation towards the impact of the current health crisis in terms of the mobilisation of budgetary appropriations and the deployment of public policies. We wonder about the successive crises that we have experienced – yellow vests, covid -19 – and their certain effects on our finances. What would have happened if the proposals for measures of many parliamentarians on all sides had been heard during the financial debates in 2018 and 2019? Whether it is the widespread social contribution, the CSG, the carbon tax or the hospital, can we consider that it is the crises that have affected public finances or that our economic policies and our budgetary guidelines may have aggravated these crises? I leave this to your reflection on what cannot be defeated, but I invite you to take a more positive approach for the future. The pandemic and the health crisis must lead us to rethink all our public policies and the transformation of our lifestyles, our economic models and, more broadly, our societies. From education to civil security to all ministerial sectors, but also to the scale of each territory, this adaptation obviously involves a transformation of our finances: there is no public policy without budgetary translation. Many States have already chosen to review their economic processes and policies. That is why I want to come back to a subject that I care about, because I believe it is the right answer to our question: the 2030 Agenda and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals, commonly referred to as the SDGs. Adopted on 25 September 2015, the agenda sets itself the objective of responding to the common challenges of the countries of the world. This agenda was then presented as a paradigm shift, a transformative project and a global roadmap to be developed by all countries and actors. France adopted its own roadmap in September 2019, the elaboration of which resulted in important work on the part of many actors, all stakeholders and some parliamentarians. Many of us have shown that this reading grid – the SDGs and their targets – is a formidable tool that Parliament needs to use to read the budget and improve its control over financial laws. Finally, it will address the societal challenges facing us. The budget is the political and economic expression of the Government's action. It must therefore be seen as the necessary and indispensable starting point for the integration of the 2030 agenda. This integration even seems logical in the light of the new results-oriented public management, with indicators and targets, as well as the sustainable development goals. This new public management calls for a more transparent and effective management of public action, resulting in the introduction of more and more precise performance indicators. Budgetary appropriations are organised on the basis of political objectives controlled with objectives and indicators. This results-based approach is relatively consistent with sustainable development goals, which are similarly organized into objectives, targets and indicators. These indicators, developed by INSEE, the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies, can therefore benefit from national monitoring. This would make it easier for us to read and evaluate the budget process. We could talk to everyone with the right tool, work more efficiently and quickly within the deadlines imposed on us, and perhaps do better with less. The moment we are living requires profound changes. For our public policies, the time has come to integrate sustainable development objectives into the targets and indicators of our projects and annual performance reports. For us and for future generations, let us now lay the foundation for a resilient society, act and find ourselves next year around a better spring of evaluation. Let us draw up a renewed budget, like that of an increasing number of States around the world, from Finland to Costa Rica, through Mexico or Spain. [[Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne applauds]] I am convinced that we can find ourselves, beyond our differences, in these common values.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u106	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u107	He's going to talk about social debt, to change!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u108	I'm sure he agrees with the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u109	The spring of the evaluation is the way to put the parliamentary oversight and evaluation function at the very heart of our mission, with the objective of consciously exercising our role as enlightened legislators. In this way, we can focus on the concrete results of public policies and strengthen our fiscal responsibility. In general, I remain convinced that improving control could save us from over-legislation – this applies to budgetary evaluation. If I am therefore very willing to agree with the evaluation policy, I must say that we often lack the means to assess budget implementation effectively. However, I, in turn, welcome the work of the Special Rapporteurs in analysing the votes on appropriations and their use. It is clear: just as much as on authorization, we need to be vigilant about enforcement. The Bureau of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control of the National Assembly, which met on Wednesday 1 April, decided to reorient the work of the spring of the evaluation in order to take account of the exceptional situation we are experiencing. Instead of the themes that had been agreed at the beginning of the year, a single theme was chosen: the impact of the current health crisis in terms of the mobilisation of budgetary appropriations and the deployment of public policies. This crisis revealed the specificities of the French model of employment, its flaws and, above all, its assets. Our fellow citizens are concerned about the continuation of their work after the health crisis or the beginning of their working lives, like many young graduates who struggle to find a first job. While a new system of partial unemployment has to be defined in the coming days by the Ministry of Labour, which has emerged from the consultation with trade unions and employers' organisations, it is interesting to focus on the impact of the health crisis on the deployment and smooth functioning of employment policy mechanisms, so that current lessons can better anticipate future crises. The budget report on labour and employment shows a 22.6% increase in the number of jobseekers in France in April 2020: an additional 843,000 category A entries were registered at Pôle Emploi. Employment has therefore experienced an unprecedented shock, making it more necessary than ever to adapt our public policies to these new challenges. That is why I would like to raise your awareness of learning. Indeed, during the health crisis, many apprentice training centres – CFA – alerted us to the risks of closure due to the suspension of their earnings during the crisis. Prior to the covid-2019 pandemic, learning was in the bottom-up phase: the number of young people entering learning had increased by 16% in 2019. This unprecedented situation was positive for the future of employment in our country: this sector, which has an integration rate of almost 75%, is crucial for youth employment. As a result of the crisis, the CFAs were closed and apprentices were placed in partial unemployment in companies that could not use telework. The Government has taken steps to ensure that they retain their full remuneration. Thus, the report stresses that the mobilisation of budgetary appropriations must accompany the learning recovery plan. How do you assess the practical opportunity of this measure? Will this plan be able to incorporate, in the framework of the third amending finance bill for 2020, the necessary provisions? I would also like to hear your views on the unique learning support package introduced in 2019 and its potential results. After a long time as a poor student in this field, France recently returned to learning. The crisis has undermined this momentum without weakening it, because a genuine federative movement has formed around this path, which is now indispensable for the recovery of our economy. The French, as well as the national representation, will be attentive to the proper distribution of the appropriations of the "Work and employment" mission in this perspective. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Minister, if it is a satisfaction that it is possible to address the Government in the light of this unprecedented period of crisis, it is the one on the responsiveness and flexibility that it has shown to adapt the budgetary provisions to the situation, thus undermining the criticism of the administrative heaviness that our country is often the target of. This will certainly be one of the lessons to be learned from the health crisis. Moreover, the National Assembly has not been left behind to debate and take responsibility for the urgency of the proposed measures. It seemed useful to me to remind him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u110	Mr Daniel Labaronne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u111	As part of this spring's somewhat special assessment, we are invited to comment on the context in which the French economy has addressed the health crisis. I believe that our country has approached the crisis under favourable macroeconomic and fiscal conditions. In 2019, our growth rate reached 1.5%, compared to 0.5% for Germany, a country that we are used to comparing. However, I am convinced that the growth rate we achieved last year, which placed us in favourable conditions to tackle the health crisis, is not the result of chance. It is the result of an economic policy that is both coherent and effective, a policy that is in fact quite simple because it is based on the idea that the labour market must be freed and that the emphasis must be on learning and training to improve skills and develop our human capital. This policy is also based on the idea that savings should be directed towards financing productive investment: in short, it is a question of developing technical capital. Finally, this policy promotes investment in research and innovation to improve intellectual and intangible capital. Since we have developed our human, technical and intangible capital, we have been able to gain strong growth, which can be described as endogenous because it is the result of our economic policy and our political will.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u112	He's the only one who believes in it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u113	This strong growth has enabled us to reduce unemployment and offer work to a very large number of our citizens, who have thus earned income and increased their purchasing power. At the same time, we have increased the social minimums and redistributed the wealth created by growth. The purchasing power of those who have returned to work and those who have benefited from the increase in social minimums has helped to fuel strong demand. The correspondence between our supply policy and our demand policy, both supported by the measures we have taken in the field of purchasing power, has enabled France to show one of the highest growth rates in Europe. I note that our country was the leading contributor to European growth in 2019. What are the consequences of this successful strategy? The first is that it gave confidence to foreign investors, who invested heavily in our economy in 2019, making France the first European host country for foreign direct investment; The second is that it has also given confidence to investors who buy our debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u114	They've got enough to buy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u115	It's good, they're asking for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u116	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Some question the quality of our signature. The answer lies in the coherence of the economic policy that we have been following since we became responsible. I am firmly convinced of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u117	Is he a comedian?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u118	That was in 2019!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u119	I share this conviction with you, and I think I have the right to do so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u120	Let Mr Labaronne, ladies and gentlemen, speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, if we have been able to tackle the health crisis under satisfactory macroeconomic conditions, it is because we have been able to develop a coherent and effective economic policy. And since, at the same time, we have been able to reduce our public deficit and stabilize our debt in relation to GDP, we have shown that we are coherent, solid and capable of dealing with exogenous events such as the health crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, our politicians have been able to put in place a coherent economic policy, which has produced results, proof that we can trust them in the context of the crisis that we are experiencing. Without this economic policy, France would have faced the crisis under much less favourable conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u122	That's a very powerful speech...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u123	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Cordier, please calm down. I invite you to listen wisely to Mr. Le Fur. It was not very correct to interrupt Mr Labaronne several times.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u124	But I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u125	If there is a budget that suffers the consequences of the tragedy facing all the countries of our planet, it is that of official development assistance. This tragedy is having an impact on the donor country that we are as well as on the countries that can benefit from our assistance, especially the most fragile. As a reminder, France has set itself the target of allocating 0.55% of gross national income – GNI – to official development assistance in 2022,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u126	We're far from the 0.7%!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u127	... to target this aid to the most fragile countries, including eighteen African countries and those of the Sahel, but also to increase bilateral aid and donations to the most fragile countries – for them, the gift is more relevant than the loan. What happened? Before coming, I would like to greet not only our representatives and diplomats in these countries – they have remained there and faced many difficulties, which others have already said before me – but also the agents of the French Development Agency, AFD, who have also remained mobilized. I want to stress this because not all diplomatic networks and public aid structures around the world have shown the same consistency. However, Africa has suffered particularly, not so much in terms of health – it has been spared so far and it is to be hoped that this will not change in the future – but in terms of economic terms, because of the fall in the prices of raw materials, which for many States constitute the main recipe, the fall in diaspora flows, which represent two to three times the world's official development assistance, i.e. quite considerable amounts, and the disinvestment of some foreign partners. The countries that have suffered the most are the most landlocked countries, often the most fragile, particularly those in the Sahel. In particular, they have suffered from a difficult situation in terms of mobility and freight, but also in terms of food. The forecasts of the World Food Programme – WFP – are worrying: the food crisis would now affect 265 million people around the world. France has played its part in this context as it has been at the initiative of the request for a moratorium on the debts of poor countries. This moratorium was decided by the Paris Club, soon followed by China, the Gulf countries, India and Brazil.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u128	That's right: nice workout effect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u129	All the donor countries have followed the French initiative, which we must welcome. The moratorium will cover EUR 13 billion this year. Our relative share is 900 million, a large amount, which will not have a negative budgetary translation, although debt cancellations may result from the moratorium, which is a first step. At this stage, however, no cancellation is decided, nor is it called for by African countries, who fear that it would appear to be a depreciation of their borrowing capacity. Nevertheless, the President of the Republic has clearly affirmed his will to campaign for the cancellation, not of the total debt of the poor countries, but of the debt of the African countries. France has also been able to redirect its official development assistance in a very short period of time towards health and food, which are now the subject of the greatest concern. AFD has therefore shifted $1,150 billion towards these two areas – it is a reorientation of expenditure and not an increase. Among the beneficiaries of the new assignments, I would like to mention, in particular, the Institut Pasteur. The question of our participation in the World Health Organization – WHO – also deserves to be asked. It is, for the time being, relatively limited, but it is necessary to consider the role that the organization has played in recent months and the influence that China has exerted as a result of the American withdrawal. The crisis also obliges us to review the law on public finance programming and to return to the target of 0.55% by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u130	It's all over again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u131	Paradoxically, as of this year, we will approach this target while the target for 2020 was 0.47%. However, as a result of a denominator effect, our GDP declines by 11 per cent according to government forecasts, official development assistance will this year represent 0.50 per cent, or even 0.51 per cent, of GNI, but without any increase in financial resources. In any event, we must ask ourselves the question of our ability to support the objectives initially set for the amounts allocated, as well as the prioritization of our aid. Let us avoid that the nineteen countries that we have defined as the most fragile – eighteen African countries and Haiti – suffer too strongly from the decline in our official development assistance. We must focus our efforts on the nineteen priority countries, and in particular on the five countries of the Sahelian zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u132	Thank you for closing, Mr. Le Fur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u133	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] One thing is certain, the law on public finance programming will have to be partly rewritten.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u134	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u135	Yesterday, the minister, claiming to demonstrate that your policy had been excellent in preventing and managing the crisis, and in the face of my denials, you explained to us that the crisis had been only epidemic, inevitable, independent of your previous decisions. But if his gravity has nothing to do with the state of our country, of its public services, of the system to which he belongs, why did Emmanuel Macron, in his speech of 12 March, not just talk about health measures and barrier actions? You didn't answer that question yesterday. Why did he see fit to talk about the importance of the welfare state, the need to reinvent himself, the decisions to break up in the future, the lessons of the situation, if not because he wanted to stress, by strategy, if not out of sincerity, the need to articulate politics, economics and health in order to cope with the crisis and to draw its consequences? So, just to take this example, the fact that hospitals have been submerged at a given time is directly related to the number of beds and staff available in each service, which itself depends on the budget you have allocated to them. But while it is vital to examine what has happened, it is equally vital to change things in time for the tragedy not to happen again. Unfortunately, it is certain that the next crises of a comparable scale will be environmental – indeed, this is already the case, in a way, of the crisis of the covid-19, zoonoses undoubtedly linked to the destruction of natural habitats and the extinction of species. And, just as the current crisis has highlighted the consequences of the fall in hospital budgets, these future crises will show the effects of the fall in the state budget, particularly that of the Ministry of Ecology. Special Rapporteur on ecological credits, I am at the forefront of seeing the magnitude of the damage, which is worsening every year. As the Ministry's trade unions say, public operators dedicated to environmental issues confirm: budget cuts and job cuts become insurmountable and are in total contradiction with the environmental objectives that the Government proudly displays year after year. Once again, you choose the flow policy of managing at best with the least possible public spending; However, if it works in the usual circumstances, it is unable to cope with the shock of a chaotic situation such as the covid-19 epidemic or a climate crisis that would have little or no similar consequences. As you know, the sector of prevention of natural and industrial risks is in great pain. The fire at the Lubrizol plant in Rouen sadly illustrated this and was an opportunity to recall that at least 200 inspectors are missing to monitor all hazardous sites and ensure safety. The current crisis has not fixed anything for any of the ecological operators I follow up on and interviewed. Their difficulties, their sacrifices have become recurrent and have worsened. Perhaps the most shocking thing was the statement made by the representatives of the Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA) that neither the nuclear service providers nor its own labour inspectors had been able to have masks. These health risks are compounded by serious economic consequences. By asking more and more operators in the name of ecology, while always giving them less resources in the name of debt, they have been encouraged for decades to increase their own resources so that the State can make savings. As a result, with the crisis, between shutdown sites and losses due to the closure of national parks, some of them already believe that their 2020 budget cannot be balanced. Yet their role is essential, and they too were at their posts to fight the pandemic; Thus, Météo France has contributed to the research on the links between climate and the spread of the virus. CEREMA – a centre of study and expertise on risks, the environment, mobility and development –, a public institution unknown but absolutely indispensable, estimates its loss of revenue at 40% and considers that it will no longer be able to pay its agents at the end of the year if the State does not come to its rescue. A report has also just referred to serious psychosocial risks incurred by its employees as a result of its ongoing restructuring. Yet they will be indispensable in the face of future environmental crises: continuing to treat them as variables for fiscal adjustment would be a madness. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] If we have been able to give or, at least, lend billions to the private sector, which is also without compensation, it is unthinkable that we will not give these operators and the ministry the millions they need to get their heads out of the water. When I presented this problem in committee, I felt that I had been heard by President Olivia Gregoire, who committed himself to studying it and dealing with it. I therefore hope that it will be taken seriously and that you will all be aware of the urgency for these operators, so also for us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u136	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u137	How many of you have decided to make good resolutions out of their confinement? I am not talking about using bicycles more often or consuming locally, but about our parliamentary mandate and how to give it a new impetus. If that is not yet done, I would like to propose three of them to you, which could well transform the exercise of this mandate. [["Oh! » and smiles on various benches]] Without any philosophy in the Chamber, let me quote La Philosophie in the boudoir and paraphrase its author, the Marquis de Sade.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u138	Interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u139	That's a good resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u140	I knew I could wake you up: my first goal has been achieved! He who spent twenty-seven years jammed, and therefore knew what it was like to be confined, exhorted the French, from his cell, in these terms: "French, another effort if you want to be Republicans! » Now that we have left our interiors and found the Chamber, it is time for us, too, to make an effort to finally be republican, and first of all by keeping the spirit of our Constitution alive and by applying the letter of its Article 24. For it is up to us, as deputies, to make a firm resolve to better evaluate our laws, and to give substance to this article, which makes it one of our three fundamental tasks alongside the passing of the law and the control of the Government. To do this, we must end some well-known parliamentary vices and virtues,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u141	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u142	...if you will allow me to continue my tribute. First, with the "prosperity of vice" that would consist of endless legislation: let us spend our parliamentary energy evaluating the laws already passed to adapt them rather than producing new ones with frenzy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u144	Secondly, with the "disadvantages of virtue" that would lead us to multiply the amendments calling for a report to the Government, which have no other virtue, admit it, but to import no one by not changing much. We can do better: let's go, one more effort to better evaluate! So here are three good resolutions that I propose to implement as soon as you leave the Chamber. The first is to finally refer you to Rule 145 of our Rules of Procedure, under which, within three years of the coming into force of a law, two Members, one of them from the opposition, present an impact assessment. Three years ago we entered the Chamber; Let us not leave without having assessed what we have voted on it. It is time to do so, not only because it is our constitutional role, but because evaluation makes it possible to act better and public action needs a little more reason, efficiency and agility. Secondly, in order to look to the future and, precisely, to evaluate in order to act better, support the motion for a resolution which the Group of the European People's Party will submit to you in a few weeks' time. It is intended to include a review clause in each enactment of the post-crisis recovery plan, so that the effect of the measures is rigorously assessed and reported to the assemblies by the Government. Third resolution: finally, to give us the means to evaluate. All of us here are convinced that our Parliament needs a genuine research and resource centre, like that of the European Parliament, to support our work in evaluating our ex ante and ex post laws. Without this armed arm, we will be condemned. There are already means and bodies: France strategy, the evaluation and monitoring mission – MEC –, the evaluation and monitoring mission of the social security financing laws – MECSS –, the evaluation and control committee of public policies – CEC –, the Court of Auditors; It is time to bring them together and pool them to finally equip Parliament with the means to carry out its evaluation mission. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] If we do not make these resolutions – which are simple, admit it – the evaluation of public policies will not pass through the summer and will remain confined. So, please, one more effort if you want to be Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u145	Mrs Olivia Gregoire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u146	The economic results of 2019 were good; They confirmed the positive effect of budgetary appropriations dedicated to economic development. Growth had increased by 1.3 percentage points; the unemployment rate had fallen to 8.1 per cent; France had attracted more foreign investment than any of its European partners; Finally, the number of business failures had decreased by 20% compared to the previous year. These indicators reflected the effectiveness of our government's economic and fiscal strategy. But the violence of the health and economic crisis is catching up with us. The economic situation has deteriorated considerably. In this context, the crisis has somehow served as a vast stress test for our administrations. Indeed, it has led to a considerable influx of demands and a very high level of responsiveness to meet the needs of businesses. My colleague Xavier Roseren and I began by assessing the impact of the crisis on the administrations interested in programme 134, "Business development and regulation", focusing on those placed on the front line: the DGE – Directorate-General for Enterprise – in several ways; Bpifrance, for the implementation of the State-guaranteed loan, or PGE; Finally, DGCCRF, the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention, leads the way in terms of payment deadlines. The Chief Electoral Officer is the first authority involved in the application of emergency measures. During the crisis, it was very much called upon to mobilize exceptional material production capacities, to draft orders issued during the period and to help companies take charge of emergency arrangements. For these reasons, we can warmly greet his staff on behalf of the national representation. Our various hearings have allowed us to trace the structural reform carried out in recent years, which has led the DGE to focus on missions with very high added value while significantly reducing its staff and significantly transforming its organisation. The crisis has highlighted its agility and responsiveness, and we should show as an example, in our collective reflection on the administration of tomorrow, this qualitative transformation which has allowed staff mobility, digitisation of procedures and increasing adaptation of skills. We will also question the tools of urgency that need to be sustained. In this respect, the financing conditions for the EMP were certainly attractive, but as rapporteurs for the 134 programme, we would like to see an early reflection on a crisis exit EMP, paying the banks better and, above all, extending the amortisation period for businesses. In addition to debt instruments, we believe that it is useful to reduce the corporate debt ratio rapidly by also strengthening public capital intervention. Thus, the State could take more time-limited equity interests in some enterprises. Bpifrance's intervention was essential. I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and to welcome the rare unanimity that brought us together, during the vote on the previous budget, to maintain the budget line of the public investment bank; I also thank the Government for listening to the recommendations of Parliament. Let us be clear: the appropriations now needed for Bpifrance's intervention are more important than the appropriations available. We will therefore be very attentive to the arbitrations that will be proposed to us, because we must allow these arrangements to continue. Finally, the recovery involves, and you know, a fierce fight against the longer payment deadlines observed during the crisis – and this may not be over. We welcome the establishment of the crisis committee, which meets on this subject, but we are warning: the means used may seem inadequate, and the sanctions still too little dissuasive. DGCCRF checks are carried out only after the end of the relevant accounting year: in other words, the deviations found during the health crisis will not be investigated until 2021. We therefore plead for the sustainability of the crisis committee, but also for new and perhaps more persuasive methods of intervention. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Frédéric Petit also applauds]] Beyond the adjustments and measures contained in the third PLFR, which we are going to discuss together, we must also think of a new economic model for tomorrow: the crisis has changed the rules of the global economic game by involving many players who were not only financial. The recovery must be an opportunity for a global reflection on public support for businesses. To do so, administrations must quickly take ownership of a more offensive reading of these issues, which is essential for an effective recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u147	Mr Patrick Hetzel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u148	I will focus on evaluating public policies in the area of justice. You know how much the Government has praised us for the merits of its multi-year programming law on this subject; In particular, he told us that chancery and judicial justice had taken a real digital turn. Taking a step backwards, however, one of the collateral effects of the covid-19 pandemic was to subject judicial justice to a real life-size crash test of its true level of computerization and digital performance. However, this test revealed where the faults in the system were located. Unfortunately, we were not disappointed, if I dare say: the result is not brilliant – it is a euphemism. The health crisis has highlighted various black spots. Thus, between 16 March and 11 May, assize trials were simply postponed, as was the majority of hearings in correctional or civil courts; the hearings held were mainly those of immediate appearance. However, the Minister of Justice, during her hearing before the fact-finding mission on the covid epidemic -19 in the National Assembly, told us that "the courts remain open to deal with emergency disputes"; In particular, she cited violence within the family, attacks on individuals or non-compliance with the rules of confinement. What we have seen is, above all, the great diversity in the way the courts operate, and the application of the Chancery's directives vary widely from one to another. This slowing down of court activity is unprecedented, and it is all the more worrying that it is in addition to the difficulties associated with the strike of lawyers, in the run-up to the pandemic, which has been particularly poorly managed. It is largely due to the lack of readability of business continuity plans; In some cases, they have even led to a quasi-total judgment of the courts. The same can be said for the judicial protection of young people. Our questions are simple. Was it necessary to reduce the functioning of the courts to this extent and, if so, why? Why were the computer systems not ready, contrary to what the Government had announced? [[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] My diagnosis is severe. When the containment decision is made, the chancellery finds that while the magistrates have laptops, which allows them to telework, the clerks do not have them. As a matter of urgency, 300 laptops are distributed – for 13,000 clerks!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u149	That's an interesting average!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u150	This is the most obvious black spot: for the clerks, a 2% rate of equipment is achieved. That's the big deal. But the crash test also reveals another black spot: if the magistrates, I said, are equipped, they also very quickly realized that the virtual private network – VPN – was largely undersized. By mid-March, only 2500 simultaneous connections were possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u151	It's really part-time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u152	You're so inconvenient. It took the month of May and the end of confinement to witness a rise in the power of the system. This problem is now solved, since the Chancery announces that 40,000 computers can be connected simultaneously. These assertions could not be verified, simply because the magistrates resumed their work very gradually. This is obviously far too late, and it has not been possible to deal with the issues at stake. Another problem remains: that of civil-chain computer applications. Unlike those used for the criminal chain, they operate only from computer posts in court: delays have therefore continued to accumulate massively. It is essential to tackle this project: civilian files must be able to be dealt with remotely. There is also a need for a plan to address the backlog. It is paradoxical that the Chancery is more concerned with artificial intelligence – even publishing a decree on this subject in the midst of a pandemic, which constitutes an absolute scandal – than with what constitutes the core of its missions: to do everything possible to ensure that information and communication technologies are at the service of justice close to our fellow citizens. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The margins of progression, you understand, are very real.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u153	It's not artificial intelligence, it's intelligence that we need!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u154	Mr Xavier Roseren has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u155	The 2020 edition of the evaluation is special: the Special Rapporteurs not only assessed the use of funds in 2019, but also, in part, those adopted in the last few months as a matter of urgency. The review of credits for business development enabled my colleague Olivia Gregoire and myself to make an initial, non-exhaustive, factual assessment of the support provided by the economic administrations in the context of the crisis. We wanted to know precisely how the very strong mobilisation of government services and operators has led them to adapt their support to businesses as a matter of urgency. Our first observation concerns working methods. Like many other confined sectors, administrations and operators have had to organise their work remotely; telework has led to a change in attitudes, but above all has accelerated the digital transformation of the administration. More broadly, services had to respond quickly to new needs, even though they were much more sought after than usual, and sometimes understaffed. The automated processing of requests for prior authorization for partial activity has greatly maximized the efficiency of services. We have also taken an interest in the role played by economic administrations in implementing the exceptional support provisions. Our report indicates this: when Bpifrance was given the responsibility of managing the EMP, he saw his role as an operator-pivot of the State's economic policy strengthened. At the beginning of the week, 85 billion euros were distributed to almost 500,000 companies. It's a real success. However, we must be vigilant about the State's failure to compensate for the allocation of the management of the EMP to Bpifrance: the scale of the public investment bank's action has led to a very significant additional cost and we believe that compensation is necessary. We are also looking at the coordination, by the CEO, of repayable advances, a support tool for SMEs whose application for EMPs has been refused. The CEO stresses the importance of such an instrument, which allows strategic companies to survive. It seems to me important to recall that a large majority of central services and deconcentrated services had been engaged since 2017 in a major reform, and were already under pressure long before the crisis. This reorganization involves significant abolitions of posts and missions, particularly within the CEO. Faced with the sharp increase in demands, the regional directorates of companies, competition, consumption, labour and employment – DIRECCTE – have reviewed the missions and the size of the teams. They have been able to meet the demands thanks to the cross-cutting nature of their organization and the staff made available at the central level. The gradual collaboration of deconcentrated services with consular networks has enabled the accompanying measures to be applied as closely as possible to the field. The establishment of a single point of contact for businesses, namely consular networks, seems to me a good measure, which must be sustained: the readability of the opportunities offered to economic actors is increased. Good management of public funds in 2019 has facilitated a coherent response to the crisis, even though we have found some shortcomings, and the evaluation is far from closed. The challenge now is to perpetuate some of the changes that have taken place during the crisis, with a view to economic recovery. The definition of a new industrial break-up model, based on reindustrialization and relocation, must also be consistent with our environmental objectives. State economic intervention in the territories must be consolidated; It should be more coherent, with the aim of efficient public expenditure, with the affirmation of the regions as central economic actors. [[Ms Olivia Gregoire applauds]] On the basis of the findings of the crisis, governments and communities need to reinvent enhanced and more efficient community collaboration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u156	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u157	Legislating, yes, but also monitoring the action of the Government and evaluating public policies: these are the raison d'être of any parliamentarian. Of course, the context of this spring's evaluation was special; But perhaps we have extracted the essentials! The budget for the "Government Directorate of Action" mission amounts to some €1.2 billion. If the expenditure seems to decrease by more than 148 million compared to 2018, this is an economy of façade, since the budgetary rents were not recorded in 2019. At constant scope, the appropriations consumed increase by EUR 20 million. As every year, many out-of-pocket transfers undermine the readability of implementation; The recurrent under-budgeting of the operating expenses of the Prime Minister's services is also a regrettable constant. I say it every year and will not stop saying it until it is clear. For example, the Head of Government's transportation costs are three times higher than forecast. The use of Transport Squadron 00.060 is still not included in the original Finance Act. Of course, I understand the difficulty of a fair forecast in this area, but a gap of one to three is not serious, minister. Finally, I am concerned about the deterioration in the processing times of the files of the independent administrative authorities for the protection of rights and freedoms. I am thinking in particular of the CNIL, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms, and the Defender of Rights. The annex budget "Official publications and administrative information" in 2019 has a surplus of €58.5 million, which is 8.6 million more than in 2018. The continuation of savings plans and higher-than-forecast revenues are the cause. However, I wonder, like the Court of Auditors and the fact-finding mission on the implementation of the Organic Law, whether this annex budget should be abolished. To conclude on the 2019 execution, the "Investments of the Future" mission consumed just over 1 billion euros in payment appropriations, in accordance with the forecast. However, the numerous redeployments of appropriations in the course of the year, amounting to a total of 1 billion, distort the initial budgetary authority; Nearly 300 million euros are dedicated to the creation of a battery industry, announced by the President of the Republic. If I do not prejudge the usefulness of this investment, the investment programmes of the future – PIA – are, once again, subject to the Prince's knowledge. The health crisis of 2020 has had marginal effects on the scope of my special report, with the exception of the annex budget, which is now weakened. Some services have been particularly mobilized but, overall, the slowdown in activity could lead to savings. In the "Direction de l'action du Gouvernement" mission, however, some additional costs appear to be difficult to justify, especially as the situation in our public finances deteriorates sharply. The government's information service – GIS – anticipates an additional expenditure of €20 million due to the crisis: 9 million for the creation of a telephone platform that I think is useful, and 11 million for activities that could have been stopped or slowed down. For example, IMIS has continued to organize opinion studies which I believe are of relative necessity. Not only are these surveys costly, but I am concerned that the Government's decisions have been guided more by the evolution of public opinion than by the pursuit of the public interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u158	Oh no, that's not possible, let's see...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u159	[["Yes! » on some benches of the LR group]] In addition to this, unfortunate initiatives include the creation of a website publishing press articles certified by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u160	A form of Pravda, of state truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u161	Last year, the major national debate had already resulted in an additional cost of €2 million for IMIS. Expenditure is now inverse proportion to the Government's popularity rating. The General Secretariat for National Defence and National Security was called upon to assess the opportunity to export masks at the heart of the crisis. The means mobilised to this end would have been more useful in strengthening the supply for the benefit of our caregivers. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, four IAP actions have been requested to respond to the crisis: 125 million euros have been set aside to support small businesses. I believe, however, that the IAP should not be a short-term instrument because its primary objective is to raise the growth potential of the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u162	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u163	The year 2019 was a year of application and deepening of the reforms carried out since the beginning of the quinquennium. In the fourth quarter of 2019, the unemployment rate was 8.1%, the lowest since the end of 2008. There was also a clear increase in the positive exit rates of the beneficiaries of a training or employment scheme, one of the best examples of which was the rate of integration into employment following the apprenticeship contract. However, the health crisis has called into question the progress we have made in terms of employment. However, we welcome the results of the past, which have helped to alleviate the economic crisis. We have been able to take unprecedented steps, no matter what the cost and no matter what the cost. I will mention only one of the measures related to the job mission of which I am special rapporteur: partial unemployment, or rather partial activity. The latter allowed one in two workers to keep their jobs, to preserve their employment contract, with, in most cases, a maintenance of the total wage. It was 31 billion euros that were invested to save jobs. It's not nothing, and it's not over: tomorrow, a new device, called "reduced activity for the maintenance of employment", will take over. But we must also provide for a plan to accompany jobseekers, because the latest figures reflect an unprecedented increase in the number of registered jobseekers: 22.6% in a single month. The crisis has weakened integration structures through economic activity; An under-consumption of the postal aid paid is expected both because of the partial active placement of the employees of these structures and because of the fewer recruitments compared to the forecast for 2019. At the same time, suitable undertakings using the partial activity are not eligible for the post aid. However, 93% of them declare themselves to be completely or partially closed. The observation is clear: the contraction of employment already affects, and will affect even more young people, the least qualified people or people with disabilities, in short, French people whose situation is already more difficult. However, no prosperous and sustainable society can tolerate such persistent exclusions. The recovery plan announced for young people's learning and employment is crucial, but the current arrangements must be maintained and amplified. This increases the legitimacy of the competency investment plan. In order to help everyone regain autonomy and dignity through work, it is time to move to a higher speed, while public action is separated between the injunction to control public spending and the imperative of social responses to the multiple fractures of French society. Adapted businesses, integration through economic activity, experimentation with "long-term zero-unemployed territories" or free jobs are useful investments for our nation. They contribute to building a society and economy in which every talent, every skill, every individual can find a place to make society together. This is not a slogan, but a profound will that requires us to mobilize, alongside the state, all the actors of inclusion, communities and businesses in a true spirit of co-construction. Our roadmap is simple given the social needs that the crisis will create. After liberating work and entrepreneurship, we must guarantee a State that protects. This is why, following the work carried out with my colleagues, Didier Baichère and Christine Cloarec - Le Nabour, the group of the presidential majority, aware of the need, increased by the crisis, to continue our action, will table a bill on the integration through economic activity and the extension of the "long-term unemployment zero-territories" scheme in order to simplify and strengthen these arrangements. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We must act in three directions: turning unconsumed credits due to the health crisis into exceptional support for adapted structures and businesses; to put in place and strengthen the initial ambition in the field of integration through economic activity and adapted enterprises by already providing, Mr Minister, for a budget for 2021 higher than that of 2020 in order to increase the opportunities offered to the most vulnerable; increase the envelopes dedicated to youth employment, beyond what will be voted in the third amending finance bill, which we welcome as a learning component.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u164	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u165	The pandemic obliges us all to leave our comfort zone: Government, public administrations and Parliament. The housing and housing policy does not escape. Since 15 March, we have been staying at home for several tens of millions, in accordance with health recommendations; 94% of French people lived in their homes and many of them found telework in dwellings that were often unsuitable for telework. Covid-19 will undoubtedly be the event of this early 21st century. The weeks of confinement were indicative of the French's perception of their housing, but also, for some of them, of their difficult habitat conditions. In working-class neighbourhoods, in particular, people have been victims of double punishment, poverty and hyperdensity. We can ask ourselves about tomorrow's model. I'm not sure that hyperdensity is the Eldorado for the French or the assurance of their happiness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u166	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u167	We listen to them, and it seems that rurality has an opportunity to seize for a while...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u168	Rurality is the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u169	...that we find the very high speed and a telephone cover.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u171	And doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u172	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] The Government was the only one who had really dealt with both issues, not in speeches but in actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u173	You don't believe it yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u174	Fraternity is a republican promise, ladies and gentlemen, a fortiori when human lives are threatened by a health crisis. As such, the Government has taken decisions – extension of the winter truce, establishment of accommodation centres, distribution of service cheques – which require 200 million euros – the third finance bill provides for this: thank you, Minister. The entry into force of the contemporaneity of personalized housing aid – APL – which was to save €1.6 billion, was postponed, for computer reasons too.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u175	It's no worse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u176	I would like to say to those who have challenged the principle of this reform that the French redistribution system has a virtue, that of protecting and amortizing crises. I refer to their conscience the prosecutors of one day. They were wrong because if the reform had been implemented, in the event of a reversal of economic conditions, it would not have resulted in savings but would have increased expenditure. That is why I hope that this reform will enter into force as soon as possible. So we had planned 1.6 billion savings, which will not be possible. With the additional 200 million I have mentioned, we have reached the sum of 1.8 billion to which other expenditure may be added if the contemporaneity of aid is introduced. I also want to draw your attention to a subject that I care about: construction. To build housing, it takes companies: more than 50,000 construction companies are now covered by the State-guaranteed loan; Unfortunately, the recovery is slow and gradual. In this context, we must guard against a danger that awaits us and would be in addition to the economic and social crisis that is announced and that we can all foresee: the business gangrene called the investor confidence crisis. Housing policy, and more generally construction, is based only on trust. So how can we absolve this inevitable crisis of confidence? In my view, three avenues need to be explored: first, to support the ANAH – National Habitat Agency – which was perfectly successful last year, by renovating 155,000 housing units and exceeding its objectives, although, as one colleague suggested earlier, this is insufficient. The ANAH's resources will therefore need to be increased. Then we have to imagine a replacement tool for the Pinel device. The most difficult confidence to gain is that of individuals, whose investments will cease, as in every crisis. Perhaps we have a unique opportunity to put a definitive end to a mechanism that has been strongly criticized, with a preference for investment in intermediate housing. This would ensure compliance with the resource ceilings, rent ceilings and PLHs – the local housing programme – of each territory. Finally, the State must set an example for its own investments. In my view, we must definitely break with the pastist vision that is based on the doctrine of the occupying owner and replace it with the modern doctrine that separates the occupant from the owner. Government assets could be purchased and maintained by publicly funded public corporations. I think that this solution should be preferred to that of public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u177	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u178	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The French are waiting for him from us, Minister. Let us not hesitate to provoke the crisis in order to deepen further the reform of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u179	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u180	We are gathered to carry out the evaluation of public policies conducted in 2019. This is a particular exercise, since we all have as our horizon the management of 2020, already very strongly affected by the coronavirus crisis, with a public deficit hypothesis of 9.9% according to the latest forecasts published by the European Commission, a gross domestic product in decline by 8.2% and a public debt that goes away, to 116.5% of GDP. That is why we need to react quickly and take strong action. In order to do so, the reports submitted to us in the context of this evaluation are very interesting. In the time allotted, it is obviously impossible to review the whole of it, some of which have not yet been made public or have been public a few moments ago – I am thinking in particular of the one dealing with security. It's too bad... I will therefore confine myself to the evaluation of two missions, which I think are quite emblematic. The 2019 budget implementation of the mission "Immigration, asylum and integration", consisting of programmes 104, "Integration and access to French nationality", and 303, "Immigration and asylum", stood at 1,948 billion euros in commitment authorisations and 1,78 billion in payment appropriations, amounts approximately 5 % higher than those opened by the finance law for 2019. The financial year 2019 is the eleventh consecutive year in which the initial appropriations were exceeded. And, once again, the imbalance is due to a significant over-implementation of Program 303, "Immigration and Asylum", for more than 150 million. Last year already, the appropriations for this mission had been significantly increased in the initial 2018 finance law, and that had not been enough. This is hardly surprising, since you base the cost estimates on a number of largely undervalued refugee claims. In 2019, the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons registered 132614 applications in total, 7.3% more than in 2018. The asylum application has thus reached a new record level in France, while, I would remind you, it is falling everywhere else in Europe. In short, you insist on underestimating the evolution of the asylum application and, of course, its effect on the appropriations allocated to it. One wonders why, especially since the health crisis should lead to a further increase in the expenditure of this mission of around 168 million euros, an increase of more than 9%. My second example will be state medical aid, the AME, and health care for foreigners in an irregular situation who have been residing in France for more than three months. If it should be stressed that this year – finally! – the AME's expenditure on the state budget has been implemented in accordance with the forecasts, although there has been a steady increase of 29 million in one year! In five years, the cost of all AME components increased by about 175 million, due to the increase in the number of beneficiaries – 326,000 at the end of 2019, compared to 318,000 at the end of December 2018 – and the increase in the average quarterly cost per beneficiary – 641 euros in 2017; €674 in 2018; 685 euros in 2019. In addition, the actual cost of AME is probably largely underestimated. According to the report recently prepared by the Inspectorate-General of Finance and the Inspectorate-General of Social Affairs, hospital expenditure for illegal aliens is undervalued by at least "8%, plus management costs of the order of 8%" as well. In conclusion, I would like to put this reflection into perspective by referring to another mined subject: that of social fraud. The work of the committee of inquiry chaired by our colleague Patrick Hetzel is promising. Perhaps we will finally manage to tackle this issue! According to Charles Prats, a magistrate and former member of the national delegation to the fight against fraud, 12.4 million people born abroad or in an overseas territory received social benefits last year, whereas according to INSEE there are expected to be a maximum of 9.9 million. There are therefore 2.5 million "phantoms", to use the term of Mr Prats, who receive every month money from the French state! Minister, I can only question the reasons for the lack of transparency on these issues. The taboo subjects do not have to be, much more so in budgetary matters: it is public money, the money of the French, and they have the right to know how it is used.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u182	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u183	[[Smile]] I left a meeting of the Finance Committee earlier, and we will be discussing the bill in a few moments. I used to meet you in June for a few nights; It's now for whole days. The exercise is, however, somewhat different from that of previous years: the Republic on the move and the Group of the Democratic and Related Movement wanted to organise the spring of the evaluation, but the parliamentary year was shaken, and you were not able to question the ministers during thematic meetings. You have produced many thematic reports. Your interventions also focused on specific themes: Mr Hetzel's on justice, Mr Le Fur's on development aid, Mr Jolivet's on housing. It is up to the competent ministers – this is the principle of evaluation – to answer you about these public policies. So you'll excuse me for not bringing these answers myself. I'm sure you'll get them when you review the budget appropriations soon, relying precisely on your evaluations. As for the bill, it will be introduced earlier by the Minister of Public Action and Accounts and the Secretary of State with him. Mr President of the Committee on Finance, Mr rapporteur-general, if I may think about the parliamentary debate, our discussion would benefit from having these thematic committees reorganised, where possible. They had contributed a great deal to the Minister of Action and Public Accounts to assess the appropriations with his colleagues. These discussions are obviously anything but mediocre. In the Committee on Finance earlier, time was running out, and I was unable to answer all the questions asked, since the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance had had the remaining few minutes, which was very logical, since I would then find you. I would therefore like to say a few words to respond to the speakers concerned, even if they are not all present. Moreover, some of you have just mentioned, in this rostrum, the year 2020, even though the debate was about the assessment of 2019 – note that, despite the name of the virus, the crisis of covid -19 did not affect the 2019 financial year. In short, I would be remiss if I did not elaborate on three issues: income tax, mentioned by Mr de Courson; the appropriations entered in PLFR 3, addressed inter alia by Ms Pires Beaune, Mr Roussel and Mr Coquerel; the exemptions from charges, on which you asked me, Mr President of the Committee on Finance. Ms Pires Beaune – with whom I discussed it just after the meeting – Mr Roussel and Mr Coquerel felt that the content of the PLFR was not entirely in line with the speeches. It is true that the text of the PLFR, which is several pages long, was provided to Parliament at the very moment when the committee was meeting, which does not make matters easier. In any event, the appropriations in question are well included in the third PLFR: in the budget of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, €75 million to help students, €30 million to improve the amount of scholarships and €45 million to compensate for the rents normally paid to the regional centres for academic and academic works; to the budget of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, 100 million for the French abroad; within the "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities" mission, the appropriations intended to finance the plan presented by Ms Schiappa to combat violence against women; within the "Cohesion of Territories" mission, more than 200 million for emergency accommodation, mentioned by Mr Jolivet. Mr de Courson asked me why the income tax proceeds had not been further reduced in this third PLFR. I'm sure he can hear us from where he is.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u184	[[Laughs]] He's not dead!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u185	Of course! I meant he's probably listening to us from his office. I have a little experience working as a parliamentarian... The income tax revenue does not fall as strongly as Mr de Courson mentioned, for two reasons. On the one hand, the wage bill decreases less rapidly than GDP; The effect on income tax revenues will therefore be delayed, and will only become significant next year. It takes time, if I may say so, to lay off, to put employees permanently out of work or to reduce their earnings structurally: all this is not clearly reflected in the growth forecasts of the Banque de France, the European Commission or the INSEE. On the other hand, things have changed with the sampling at source, mentioned by some of you. We found that between the presentation of PLFR 2 and the presentation of PLFR 3, the French had reduced their collection rate at source less than we expected, which is rather a good thing. On the other hand, the determination of the income tax base is not contemporary in its collection, a question which we have discussed at length in the introduction of the source levy. In any case, there is a decrease in income tax revenue, but the forecasts are less alarmous than expected, given what we have seen in the first six months of the year. I would also like to make a brief general reminder: there are only 24 hours left for taxpayers, especially Parisians, to declare their income. As for those who still make a paper statement because they have more trouble, they have until June 12. Don't forget... Mr President of the Committee on Finance, you have asked yourself about the usefulness of the measure on social security contributions – as far as employers' contributions are concerned, you have understood the Government's strategy, and we will have the opportunity to discuss it when presenting the measures envisaged in this area. It is true that an employer who places its employees in partial employment does not pay contributions. However, there are two topics to be addressed. First, some of those whose activities we interrupted from 15 March still paid their employees until 30 March. As a result, they paid a "surcharge" of social contributions, which may have had a negative effect on their cash flow, which we wanted to respond to. Secondly, some of them had to continue in part, and not all of their employees could be covered by the partial activity scheme. This has been the case, for example, of receptionists in hotels, security officers hired by companies to keep the premises or of employees of equestrian centres – you mentioned them in a previous discussion – who continued to work to feed the animals. In short, even if their total amount is reduced, social contributions have still been paid or will be paid. Since we did not want to deprive employees of the rights they open, we chose to make this credit equal to 20% of the wage bill – the rate actually results from the application of a simple rule of three, I will admit it. Thanks to this credit, in addition to not paying his employer's expenses, a hairdresser who remains closed during the two months of confinement will be able to pay the first or two months of social contributions from his employees. It's a social cash advance, you might say. In any case, this is the proposal made by the Government to national representation to deal with these few problems, which sometimes handicap French companies. I have finished with the answers to the members of the Finance Committee and to the speakers who referred to the 2020 financial year. I do not go back to the assessment of the appropriations not yet consumed for 2020, not only because they are indeed very changing, but also because this will probably be the subject of your commissions of inquiry and the next spring of the evaluation. With regard to 2019, I would like to thank the forty-seven special rapporteurs for their work, although a small number of them have not yet been handed over. They support the work of the Government, including the Minister of Public Affairs and Accounts, who will receive his colleagues from next week to build the 2021 budget. Parliamentary reports are always extremely valuable for discussing the evaluation of public policy appropriations. In this respect, I agree with Mr de Courson: in these special reports, Parliament proposes few savings measures. In other words, economies in general are often favoured, but rarely in particular. When one chooses to write a thematic report – I had the opportunity to do so when I was a Member of Parliament – it is because one is interested in a policy which one does not want to see reduced appropriations. On the contrary, it is regrettable that the appropriations entered are insufficient or under-implemented. However, it is important not to judge a public policy with the sole criterion of increasing appropriations: first it is not always relevant, then it would result in never reducing or controlling public expenditure. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have adjusted the public accounts; Several rapporteurs have mentioned this and I thank the rapporteur-general for highlighting it in his speech. On this occasion, I also salute Joël Giraud for the work we have done together in previous years; I pay tribute to him because this implementation is also his, as is sincerity in the budget entry. I agree with Mr.Daniel Labaronne, in particular, that we attacked this crisis with the best public accounts possible, even though they were actually less good than those of our German friends: the situation we inherited might have differed a little, it must be admitted – which was not done by all the members of the opposition who spoke. This is indeed a reality, as we have gone from a public deficit of 3.4% in 2017 to about 2% last year, as the Court of Auditors has shown. I believe that we have respected the principle of budgetary sincerity. I understand that this is not in itself an incredible success, since the minimum that a Government must do is to present to you the budget entries with sincerity – but perhaps this changes from the previous forecasts, according to the Court of Auditors' report, the new First President of the Court of Auditors may have mentioned this. You will have found that the Government has kept its promise: it has not submitted advance decrees; When the events proved to be extremely violent for the public accounts, as was the case recently, he even introduced amending financial laws, in a logic of complete acceptance of the game of parliamentary authorization and control. The fact that this Government was the first not to submit advance decrees probably shows that the Organic Law on Finance Laws – LOLF – was not fully respected. Our approach, however, respects the evaluation work of parliamentarians, since they are looking at budget appropriations that are truly recorded; It contributes to the effective implementation of public policies and empowers programme managers to do their work properly. Mr President of the Committee on Finance, like other speakers, referred to the under-executions and over-executions, which are quite ordinary things on such a budget, 340 billion euros in appropriations in this case. They are still the consequence, of course, of unforeseen events in the course of management – I do not believe that any of the speakers, including the opposition, have shown the opposite. One example is the postponement of the entry into force of the reform of the contemporaneization of personalized housing assistance. It is also regrettable: if it were to save the nation in economically favourable times, it would have increased spending in times of shortage; It therefore seems to me that she would have been welcome to accompany the social difficulties that some people will experience. However, this reform is not overturned, it is postponed. Its application, which the Minister of Housing referred to, is particularly complex, so that it should be postponed rather than implemented in a very unfair manner and contrary to the intention of the legislator. In particular, I thank Mr Jolivet for pointing out this. The expenditure for the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission was higher than planned, in particular the expenditure related to the financing of the activity premium. I would remind the national representative that in this area we have increased from 3 billion to almost 10 billion euros. The great debate was certainly unforeseen, as was the announcement by the President of the Republic that followed him and to which we therefore replied. And in the end, it was to the public that we responded, since the state assumed almost 10% of the salary increase for the people paid to the SMIC, by the payment of a social benefit, included in the budget presented today by Mr.Véran – and by Mrs.Buzyn yesterday. In addition, unemployment has decreased more than expected, which has led to an increase in the number of beneficiaries of the premium. No one – especially in the opposition – had anticipated that government policy would be as effective and bring down unemployment so rapidly; In other words, no one had anticipated such an increase, which should be welcomed, in the appropriations allocated to the activity premium. Emmanuelle Ménard referred to the mission "Immigration, asylum and integration". For its own reasons, she said that the Government's policy would not be as effective as that, since the flow of asylum-seekers would be greater. In reality, we have been faster than before in the execution; the increase in appropriations for this mission voted by Parliament is not only the result of an increase in the number of asylum seekers; It is the consequence of the speed with which we deal with their request. This seems to me to be the first major public policy for a State: to accept who it wishes to receive on its soil, in accordance with its great duty of asylum, and not to accept those who could be called, from this point of view, "smugglers". Thus, the increases in appropriations and the over-executions referred to are not simply linked to flows; Perhaps Ms. Ménard could have made that clear. On the issue of overseas credit consumption, President Woerth referred to under-executions. He stressed the role of exemptions from employer contributions, of the least economic dynamism, and the lower consumption than expected of the investment credits of the famous programme 123, "Conditions of living overseas". It is true that we can always improve things in this area; I'm working with the Minister of Overseas Affairs. As you know, the overseas budget is certainly small 'budgetary', but it is subject to a lot of exemptions; The minister does not have full control over budgetary expenditures, so he cannot be blamed for this. Mr President of the Committee on Finance remembers that we have repeatedly proposed in this House that this situation be improved by transforming tax expenditure, i.e. exemptions, into budgetary expenditure. We have often been criticized, including by the ultramarine parliamentarians themselves. Yet, in my view, such a policy is likely to improve the control of appropriations, thus improving aid to the ultramarine territories. Both President Woerth and the rapporteur-general referred to the issue of the remainders to be paid, continuing our discussions with Mrs Rabault and the rapporteur-general Giraud. The outstanding payments, which correspond to the differences between commitment authorisations and payment appropriations, increased by €8 billion in 2019. This is, of course, due to the multi-annual programming of certain expenditure, particularly that relating to the gendarmerie, which falls under the "Defence" mission. We have often referred to the "Heritage" program of the "Culture" mission during the review of finance bills. The restoration of historical monuments is a subject dear to Gilles Carrez...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u186	And Brigitte Kuster!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u187	That is correct, but it is Mr Carrez who was the Special Rapporteur of the "Heritage" programme: I give back to Caesar what is Caesar's, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u188	Excellent Gilles Carrez!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u189	In this area, the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris was quite unpredictable, as was the €20 million allocated to it from the funds of the mission "Culture". Many of you have mentioned the funds without legal personality, in response to the Court of Auditors' report, which cites in particular the innovation fund created by the Minister of Economy and Finance to promote investment and the break-up in the economy through innovation, a subject which we have had the opportunity to mention several times. The minister is preparing new criteria to sustain this fund in 2021, while taking into account your parliamentary reports as well as the criticisms of the Court of Auditors. The exceptional nature of the crisis has prompted your committee to anticipate the year 2020. Without insisting on it too much, figures have been quoted in the rostrum, but they are already false. The chairman of the committee and I have looked at this: there has been an increase in public debt to 115 % of GDP, whereas it is now estimated that it will reach 121 %. Everything is increasing, indeed, and the figures that have been mentioned do not mean much anymore, because we are already anticipating lower growth and higher unemployment, a very strong attrition of the wage bill and the commitment of expenditure to support the economy. I hear the arguments of those who also wish to consider a draft law on amending social security finances, but that would probably not be very reasonable given the instability of social income, as we have already mentioned in a joint meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Finance. I want to answer two more questions raised by the rapporteur-general and President Woerth. We have spoken several times in this House about the taxes affected. Personally, I agree with the rapporteur-general's high ambition to transform organic laws – at least to improve them: we can limit the taxes to the maximum, it is not the minister of action and public accounts who will oppose it. In fact, we have seen how difficult the economy is, sometimes this mechanism of affected taxes leads to the loss of revenue for the causes they support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u191	The budgetary authority, on the other hand, makes it possible to exercise control and to give back money when an accident occurs. When there's no accident, it's kind of a zero-sum game. Often, the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition, the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of Culture encourage affected taxes, on the pretext that sport must pay for sport, culture and, sometimes, ecology. However, it is clear that the results are not always as expected. The Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition offers an example in the field of transport. He was first confronted with the problem of yellow vests, with the breakage of radars that killed the special assignment account – CAS also, for the coup. Then the crisis of the covid occurred: for the second year in a row, the choice of a tax assigned to kill the public policy concerned. Each time, we come to ask the state to compensate, so parliamentarians to vote on budgetary appropriations, for what had been "dealed" – sorry to use this word here – in affected taxes. I am therefore in favour of re-budgeting everything that can be done, in accordance with the principle of submission to parliamentary authorisation. I also say to the opposition: the budget appropriations respect your vote and are proposed for your assessment, in contrast to the tax allocated only once and, in so doing, are much less suitable for the evaluation of the public policy to which it relates. It therefore seems to me normal to encourage the rapporteur-general in the way he has outlined; In any case, the Government was very supportive of that. In the face of the difficulties we are experiencing, MP Carrez proposed in his special report that large cultural establishments should be able to borrow from the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to refinance themselves, instead of using budgetary appropriations. That seems to us to be striking at the corner of common sense. The trail deserves to be studied; I know that this Minister of Culture will work on this and answer to Mr Carrez, whose proposals we always listen to, like all those of national representation. We will have the opportunity, in a few moments, to talk again about the 2019 appropriations and the very good budget execution of the Government: the figures of public finances have been so good that they have exceeded the expectations of the communist group. (Sighs. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups.)
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u192	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u193	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u194	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u195	The next item is the discussion of the 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill (No.2899, 3011).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u196	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u197	[[Smile]] This third speech, which immediately follows the debate in the spring of the evaluation and the consideration of the third amending finance bill – PLFR – for 2020 in the Finance Committee, seems somewhat redundant. But President Woerth wanted her... Despite my initial reluctance, so it is with undisclosed pleasure that I again address him and you. The year 2019 was once again marked by the sincerity of the Government's budgeting, under the supervision of the former rapporteur-general Joël Giraud, whose excellent work I would like to commend, and by better quality management still than in previous years. The credit goes first to the parliamentarians, who have controlled government action and budget entries, but also to the departments of my Ministry, whom I sincerely thank for the difficult work they have done, and finally to the members of the Government and the programme managers themselves, who have respected parliamentary authorities. This bill to regulate the budget and approve the accounts for the year 2019 is part of the upward trend in public accounts that we have followed since 2017, as soon as the President of the Republic comes to power. The deficit would have been 2.1% of GDP,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u198	"To have been"! ...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u199	[[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] ... or one of the lowest since 2001, without the effects, in particular, of the transformation of the CICE – a tax credit for competitiveness and employment – into a reduction of social security contributions. In other words, we have transformed a measure decided by the Government under the previous legislature into structural reform. This bill highlights the good quality of initial budgeting, first and foremost of compulsory spending. Wage bill forecasts have been broadly met, despite minimal and fully justifiable overruns. I am thinking in particular of the EUR 154 million in the "Security" mission, in connection with the financing of the memorandum of understanding with the trade unions of the national police signed on 19 December 2018 to pay for the commitment of the police, in particular during the yellow vest crisis, and the payment of part of the overtime accumulated in previous budgetary years. These overruns also concerned provisions for hazard coverage, with a view to improving budgetary sincerity. I am thinking, in particular, of the defence mission, of the annual increase of EUR 200 million for the famous OPEX – external operations – and, for the mission "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs", of the increase of EUR 200 million also in provisions to deal with the risks of agricultural disasters. I repeat, these provisions confirm the sincerity of the budget, in accordance with our commitments. In accordance with our commitments, and despite the economic and social emergency measures taken after the major debate, and announced by the President of the Republic in December 2018, we achieved 1 billion euros of savings in relation to the expenditure target set in the original finance bill. This objective has been met, even though very significant overruns have been noted – I am thinking in particular of the increase in the activity premium, by a cost of 800 million euros, of which we were talking earlier, and of the delay in the reform of personalized housing subsidies – APL – with a view to contemporaneizing them. The draft regulation also highlights the priority given by the Government to so-called investment expenditures, as they increase by 5% between 2018 and 2019, in recorded data, and by 12% since 2017. The Government's priorities are evident in the implementation of the 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u200	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u201	Support for purchasing power and incentives to work, with an increase in the activity premium; support for the areas of regalism, in particular the armed forces, with a military programming law applied in accordance with the guidelines adopted by Parliament; support for the ecological transition, which is increasing sharply to €1.7 billion, in order to help finance the ADEME – Environmental Transition Agency – or the fight against climate change; Research and higher education, with almost EUR 1 billion in increase, a budget which is up sharply from the last 20 years. In terms of budgetary sincerity, the 3% reduction in the level of the reserve – I would remind you that it was 8% before 2017 – corresponds to better quality management. This management has even been fine-tuned, since the 3% applied has not been homothetically applied, but on the real appropriations that we could have cancelled. It should therefore be pointed out that a very large majority of the cancellations, under the amending finance law, concerned the appropriations put in reserve. For the second time in more than 30 years, the Government has avoided opening and cancelling pre-appropriation decrees that deny parliamentary authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u203	The Government, whatever the differences between us, has respected parliamentary authorization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u204	He should do it more often!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u205	In 2019, management was also marked by a record: the level of carry-overs is at its lowest since 2006 and now stands at 1.9 billion in the general budget. This result confirms the breakdown since 2017 and the virtuous effects of the sincerity of budgeting, which has been noted by the Court of Auditors on several occasions. With regard to the budgetary timetable, the anticipation of the year-end amending finance law, which was passed on 26 November and promulgated on 2 December 2019, has made it possible to set the management end-of-year plan, i.e. the work we have done with my fellow ministers as early as the end of November, and to give greater visibility to all government managers. In accordance with the Government's doctrine, this amending finance law did not include, for the second time, any tax provisions. So there were no bad surprises for households or businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u206	No good ones!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u207	Yes, good ones, with the drop in income tax. And tax stability has been at the rendezvous. Significant efforts have also been made by my administration to introduce the regulatory bill for 2019 fifteen days in advance; This was welcomed by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and the rapporteur-general. I thank them for this, but we must especially thank the services that have been at the meeting: the Directorate General of Public Finance and the Directorate of Budget. It was thus tabled on 2 May, against 15 May 2019 for the 2018 PLFR, which gives us a little more time, rapporteur-general, to study it. The objective remains to be able to table the next April 15, 2021, in conjunction with the stability programme. The Government is committed to this. In conclusion, I would like to come back to two issues raised during our committee discussions, which are reflected in some of the few amendments tabled in public session: the insufficient reduction of the structural deficit in 2019, and the need to better assess tax expenditure. The opposition, by the voice of several of you, including Mr de Courson, was able to regret the insufficient reduction in the structural share of the deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u208	The non-reduction.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u209	It is a recurring criticism, one of not doing enough. At the risk of repetition – but it sets the concept it seems – the public deficit in 2019, without the double effect of the CICE linked to its conversion into a contribution exemption, would have been 2.1%, with a structural balance of -2.2%, after -2.3% in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u210	That was 2.2% in 2018, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u211	These are the lowest levels since the early 2000s. Our public spending had fallen by almost one point of GDP between 2017 and 2019, from 55 per cent to 54.1 per cent, representing 20 billion savings made by the Government. Did we have to go any further? No doubt, but I note that, whatever the savings made – the reform of housing subsidies, the differentiated revalorisation of social benefits, the end of the aided contracts, the Cahors contract... – the opposition, in particular you, Mr Courson, criticises the level of the structural deficit without ever supporting us with regard to the cuts in public expenditure. It even happens to vote for revenue cuts for the state, while calling for more. I would also like to point out the consistency of the Chairman of the Finance Committee, who alone in his group, courageously, wished not to give in to demagogy and not to vote for the reduction of income tax, considering that government policy was not consistent with the objectives set by the Government in public finances. [[Smile]] The period that begins, with a debt that is expected to reach 121% of GDP – hopefully that stops there – will be an opportunity for oppositions to say where, how and when – I wouldn't say "with whom," because for now, I'm here – to cut public spending. With regard to tax expenditure, I share with the authors of the amendments, in particular those of the Group of the European People's Party, the objective of assessing – you know my many views on this – and of reducing tax expenditure. These objectives are sometimes defended by other parliamentarians: I am thinking of Benjamin Dirx, among others, on the issue of tax expenditure, and of Émilie Cariou. We are determined to simplify the tax landscape in order to avoid looking like either the Camember sapper or the Shadok system, which would be to increase taxes very strongly and make holes inside. Since 2017, we have adapted certain tax expenditures, such as the CICE, which has been transformed into a reduction in long-term expenses; the energy transition tax credit, transformed into budget support; the reduced tariff for non-road diesel, which we have abolished in several years, with relative support from oppositions; the research tax credit, whose base we streamlined in 2020; the philanthropic tax reduction, which we have adjusted. As a result, we have made these tax expenditures much simpler and will continue to do so. Since the initial Finance Act – LFI – for 2018, an article on inefficient tax expenditures has been systematically studied in Parliament. We need to think in particular about rental investment, if only because it is sometimes in contradiction with our ecological objectives and in the fight against the artificialisation of the soil. We must also look at things in a multi-year way, and why not, in the 2021 Finance Act, continue to limit spending. Parliament's information on tax expenditures is not thin. Each year, at least since 2017, the figures for the number of beneficiaries and the cost of tax expenditures are presented in the Ways and Means Evaluation, annexed to the FLP. We will accept Mrs Cariou's amendment on the explanations for the public concerned by certain tax expenditure. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the MODEM group]] An update of these figures is attached to the proposed Regulations. The number of tax expenditures whose cost is not quantifiable is now limited to less than 10%. This percentage may need to be further reduced: we will strive to reduce it by making every effort to ensure that these devices are fully costed. Let us hope, however, that after generally wanting to reduce tax expenditure, Parliament does not propose other niches in a debate where some might bark.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u212	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u213	We spend this afternoon together juggling between the years: after talking about the next amending finance bill, then the Spring of Evaluation regarding the implementation of the 2019 accounts in the light of the crisis of the covid -19 that manifests itself in 2020, we return to the 2019 law of regulation. It's a little back to the future! Let's try and find ourselves there. The regulation bill is all the more interesting given that 2019 was exceptional in many respects. It deserves to be stopped. This year was exceptional, first of all, in the maintenance of public accounts. I insist: the public deficit stands at 2.1% of GDP if we isolate the combination – exceptional too, this famous "one off" – of the cost of the CICE and the relief of expenses in 2019. The government deficit is therefore at the lowest level since 2001, one off apart, in a particular economic context: the INSEE confirmed at the end of May that the growth of 2019 had been significantly better than expected, at 1.5% instead of 1.3%. In a few moments I will present an amendment on the introductory article, which draws the consequences: we were in 2019 in a cyclical surplus. This result is all the more remarkable as the year 2019 began in a degraded economic climate, due to the yellow vest crisis. The restoration of the confidence of economic actors, which has resulted in a frank improvement in the business climate and household consumption, shows that the budgetary responses we have provided were the right ones. Another direct effect of this good economic climate is the dynamism of tax revenues, which have been much better than expected. Compared to the original finance law, almost 8 billion euros were raised. Finally, French sovereign bonds have negotiated at a particularly low, sometimes negative, rate. As a result, the debt burden was significantly reduced in 2019 – but it has been true for several years now – creating so many fiscal room for manoeuvre. I would point out, since we are also talking about social debt at the moment, that good debt management directly generates budgetary resources to carry out public policies: it is always good to remember that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u214	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u215	The Government has not made the choice to become more indebted to take advantage of this situation. In 2019, after many years of growth, the debt-to-GDP ratio stabilized at 98.1% of GDP. Of course, after discussing the last PLFR for 2020, we know that it now amounts to 121%: this makes it possible to compare! We also see the importance of budgetary effort in the current context. It would have been a bad policy to let the debt go while a serious crisis was waiting for us, although we did not know at the time. With regard to expenditure, the 2019 financial year reflects the priorities set by the Government. State expenditure increased by €6 billion, or 1.8% at constant scope, excluding funds for assistance and product allocations, particularly as a result of the increase of €4 billion in the cost of the activity premium, as a result of its upgrading, the financing of priority public policies and the increase in the appropriations of the Defence Mission by €1.6 billion. Management analysis confirms sound budgetary planning and implementation, thereby strengthening the scope of parliamentary spending authority. First, the expenditure standards set in the original 2019 Finance Act were met. In particular, the standard of pilotable expenditure was under-executed by EUR 1 billion, and the reserve rate for non-staff expenditure appropriations was maintained at historically low levels of 3%. We often talk about the fact that there has been no advance order-in-council: it is very good and I thank you, minister. But compliance with this historically low level of 3% of the appropriations put in reserve is at least as important to me for the smooth running of the accounts. For the second consecutive year, therefore, no advance order was issued. The cancellation decrees were of a very low level and concerned only movements with purely technical scope. I therefore conclude that Parliament was properly informed at the stage of the examination of the finance law and that the execution was in accordance with what we had wished. The committee has passed the bill that is before us for the benefit of the adoption on my initiative of two provisions of precision and coordination, respectively, to clarify the introductory section and to correct a duplicate existing in our legislation. With regard to the cross-cutting policy documents submitted to Parliament, as I was telling you earlier, since the accounts of the nation were published by INSEE after the meeting of our committee, I will propose that you draw the consequences by means of a new amendment at the sitting. I propose, as our Finance Committee has done, to pass this bill for the 2019 accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u216	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u217	To discuss the economic and financial results achieved in 2019 is almost an anachronistic exercise, out of time. They are bubbles of the past that go up to the surface, as the Prime Minister would say, the situation has deteriorated, even collapsed. Moreover, I will begin by moving away from the 2019 exercise alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u218	So you're going to talk about 2018, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u219	France faces a recession of unprecedented violence, with a brutal halt to supply and demand. In reality, even before the crisis of the covid-19 hit the world economy and paralyzed France, our country was one of the poor students of the euro area in terms of unemployment and public finances. The 2019 fiscal year, Minister, is not a good fiscal year. I agree with you that this is an exercise of senancerisation: you have made great progress from this point of view, and I welcome it. Nevertheless, we were already in a fragile situation relative to others – because looking in a mirror is not enough, we still have to compare ourselves, in a context of international competition. However, the state of public finances was deteriorating and the situation of the labour market was very poor. I want to point out that last year, for the second year in a row, the government's deficit has grown to the point that it has had the worst performance since 2010. State spending has increased. France recorded a government deficit of 3%, taking into account the reform of the CICE, or 2% or 2.1%, excluding it, i.e. 80% of the euro area deficit. In addition, the deficit did not decrease between 2018 and the following year. The unemployment rate was 8.6 per cent. In this regard, the majority gave the debate organized yesterday a title for the baroque least: "How can sincerity and the restoration of public finances since 2017 promote support for the economy in the crisis of the covid -19? »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u220	It was even surreal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u221	Certainly this title was tailor-made... Anyway, a trait of humor in this gloomy period, that's already it. What recovery are we talking about? No one could predict the crisis we are experiencing, and there was nothing to predict such a collapse. However, France has entered the health and economic and social storm in a situation of relative weakness. But we kept reminding you that every growth point must be used to reform and move forward. If efforts had been made on time, during a period of continuous growth of several years, we would not have been more affected than our European neighbours, as is the case. The figures speak for themselves: 11 per cent of the recession, 11 per cent of the deficit and 11 per cent of the unemployment. This triptych is all the more frightening given that other countries are doing better than France, particularly with regard to debt and unemployment. While the covid-19 epidemic hit all European countries symmetrically, why did it further destabilise the French economy? Basically, why are we more vulnerable than others? Unlike many other countries, France has never embarked on a comprehensive reform plan that would have significantly reduced the burden of public spending, making it more effective, and reducing the use of debt. We thus found ourselves in the face of the crisis without protective mattresses, in a situation of mass deficit, mass debt and mass unemployment. In recent years, the majority was willing to forget about the 2008 crisis. Now you see what a crisis is – even though the crisis of 2008 was less profound than the current crisis. So agree that economic history and history must always be read carefully. You have fully recognized the impact of the crisis and we have voted in favour of most of the measures you have taken to combat it. Everyone agrees that health constraints take precedence over economic constraints, but they cannot kill the economy, otherwise there are still other problems. Today, we would dream of a budget like the one for 2019, and this bill of regulations, despite it, becomes a reference – which is not lacking in salt. The only question is this: when and how will France catch up with lost time and fill the open abyss under its feet? Beyond the weekly accumulation of sectoral stimulus plans, we need to be clear about this. Accelerating the natural recovery of the economy, as well as its ecological and digital transformation, is the key to a successful recovery. I certainly hope, Mr Minister, that the Government will rise to this challenge, because it is the future of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u222	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u223	Mr Joël Giraud spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u224	As a former general rapporteur for the budget and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party The Republic is working, I welcome the fact that the 2019 cru of the regulatory bills is in keeping with the previous one. Since 2018, thanks to the efforts of the Government and the initiative, the most ecumenical of all, of the Finance Committee, the regulation of the budget is the subject of a real sequence of parliamentary prior evaluation. It was no longer the text that emerged from nowhere, the examination of which made it necessary to look with the greatest difficulty for permanent members to sit. For the third year in a row, the Spring of Evaluation allowed parliamentarians to capture the delivery of the previous budget and provide rigorous evaluation work. The number of special reports reached forty-five, which gave rise this week to two major days – and evenings – of debate. Also for the third year in a row, the proposed Regulations were introduced. The Council of Ministers adopted it on 2 May, much earlier than the previous two years – in mid-May – and I note that its general statement of reasons has been improved, particularly with regard to the description of the findings on revenue collection. I had to send the administration a questionnaire to obtain this information, which this year is accessible to all, which is in the honor of the cabinets and ministerial services. In substance, I will simply mention the major reforms adopted in the 2019 Finance Act, on which we can now take an objective look. First of all, 2019 was the year of the successful introduction, in all respects, of the withholding of income tax, let us not forget. The debates had been fierce: we were running for technical disaster, we were told. Were the French going to pay much more taxes as a result of contemporaneization? The results are there: the success of the operation is indisputable, the reform has been implemented smoothly and, moreover, the levy at source has increased the efficiency of the tax – the tax collection rate is now 99.1%, compared with an initial forecast of 97% – while allowing households to adjust their tax rates upwards or downwards, which they have not deprived themselves of. I say this by looking on the right side of the House, awaiting an act of contrition by Mr Le Fur, who has sinned by tabling no less than 2947 amendments. I have no doubt that the message will be sent to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u225	Transmitted, modified, amplified!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u226	The second significant development, which had stirred much of the debate in the new reading of the finance bill, was the measures adopted in favour of the purchasing power of households. The yellow vest crisis generated an effort of more than 10 billion euros in 2019. The upgrading of the business premium by EUR 90 and its extension to an additional 53% of households cost EUR 4 billion. Overtime was exempt from income tax under a certain limit, at a cost of $1 billion. These effective measures supported household purchasing power, which increased by 2.1% in 2019 compared to 1.2% in 2018 – the largest increase since 2007. The good results of 2019 have enabled France to find itself in a better position to cope with the current crisis, as demonstrated by previous debates. The government deficit had reached its lowest point in 20 years; consumption and investment of households and enterprises were at the highest level. We must therefore welcome the implementation of 2019, which is fiscally sincere, effective in terms of reforms and a source of good economic results. It is indeed this control over public spending and the renewed growth of the French economy that enable households and businesses to be massively supported in the period of crisis that we are experiencing without, however, degrading the quality of France's signature on the banking markets. Yesterday's debate, "How can the sincerity and restoration of public finances since 2017 promote support for the economy in the crisis of the covid-19? This has been widely demonstrated. The international press itself praised France's responsiveness. The New York Times, rarely laudative, devoted its one to French exemplarity by surprise that it was only in France that some did not notice it. However, public support for an economy under artificial respiration cannot be unlimited. There is an urgent need for recovery and, while accompanying the recovery, we will have to continue our structural efforts to recover public finances by completing the reforms at the end of the quinquennium. I said it yesterday and repeat it today: it is our ability to revive the economy within the framework of a tax pact agreed and to deal with crises, whether they are called covid or not. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, it is essential to ensure that the European response does not deploy at different speeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u227	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u228	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u229	The health crisis that has been shaking the world for many months has not spared France. As the epidemic slowly declines, its consequences, particularly economic ones, remain of great concern. The Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill for 2019 gives us an overview of the economic situation in France before the crisis. It shows that it did not approach it under the best possible conditions, particularly in comparison with other countries in less indebted Europe, whose finances were healthier. Again, the comparison between France and Germany is cruel. At a time when Germany was able to balance its accounts and end its debt, the French Government continued to increase government spending and to increase deficits between 2017 and 2019, while growth was on the rise. In truth, your inability to control public accounts and engage in indispensable efforts during the years of fat cows has considerably reduced the country's margin of manoeuvre during the years of lean cows, when the crisis requires massive support for the economy. Anticipation is one of the main qualities of a political leader. But you have not been able to anticipate enough, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u230	That's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u231	I will begin my remarks on the bill by thanking the Government for presenting these accounts to us in the spring, even earlier than last year. With regard to revenue, the Government stressed the improvement in the budgetary balance and attributed those good results to the dynamism of revenue. However, this dynamism is mainly due to tax revenues, up almost €8 billion from the original finance law. This increase cannot be regarded as good news, as it is mainly the result of the dynamism of levies, which weigh too heavily on households and businesses. Indeed, France's levy rate is among the highest in OECD countries. In the light of the crisis that strikes us, this remark cannot be taken lightly. The French, hard-pressed by the slowdown in our economy for almost two months, will not be able to bear such a high rate of taxes and taxes for a long time. Secondly, we cannot look at this bill without addressing the issue of the deficit, which remains too high. Rising to 3 points of GDP, it exceeds the level provided for in the programming law of January 2018 by 0.1 points. I would also point out that the expenditure effort remains once again lower than the Government's provision in the Public Finance Programming Act in early 2018. On the basis of the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance, I would like to point out that while the structural balance is improving, it has to take into account factors outside the scope of government action. Indeed, it is the reduction in the interest burden, due to the low rate level, that makes it possible to reduce expenditure. Apart from this decline, the structural effort made remains zero in 2019. If the results are apparently satisfactory, then it is not for the Government's action that we owe it, but for the effects of the economic situation. I think it is time for the public authorities to realize that we need to make efforts. It is regrettable that we need to go through a crisis of this magnitude in order for awareness to come at last. Finally, the level of the French State's emission premiums has increased considerably, from EUR 10.8 billion in 2018 to EUR 19.9 billion in 2019. However, these emission premiums significantly reduce the burden of debt: if it seems reasonable, this is not due to a real consolidation of public finances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u232	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u233	All these figures and results must be put into perspective with the crisis that has shaken us so violently and continues to do so. They show us that the situation in France was already fragile before the outbreak came: our country was not economically sound enough or well prepared to cope with a crisis of this magnitude, and we can fear that it will be severely affected. This is probably one of the reasons why the OFCE – the French Economic Observatory – announced last week that France would be one of the countries, together with Spain and Italy, the most economically affected by the crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Thus, we cannot but deplore the fact that decisions that better prepare our country to cope with the effects of an acute economic crisis have not been taken. As you can see, Members of the Republicans Group will vote against the 2019 Budget Settlement Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u234	Mrs Sarah El Haïry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u235	As we begin to examine this bill, we realize, if it were necessary, that tomorrow's world will be very different from yesterday's. The very severe shock suffered by the public finances must lead us to exercise even more demanding control over the spending of the year 2019. The crisis cannot be an excuse to free us from the democratic duty of accountability. This Spring of Evaluation was an opportunity to fulfil our public policy evaluation function at a historic moment, with a view to learning from it for the post-crisis period. I would also like to pay tribute to all my fellow special rapporteurs for their work, which has been carried out under very difficult conditions. The settlement law is the last link in the budgetary sequence, that of control and evaluation. The MODEM and related groups would like to express their satisfaction. The 2019 fiscal year has been successful in many ways. It respects, among other things, the fundamental principle of budgetary sincerity to which we have always been very attached. Fiscal sensitivity first because, for the second year in a row, and back from a constant bad habit for more than thirty years, the Government has not resorted to the decrees in advance. While this year, in view of the exceptional circumstances, the Government has been forced to issue such decrees, I hope that, as of next year, we will return to the good habits taken since the beginning of the legislature. Budgetary sensitivity also because budget implementation has proved to be better than expected. The government deficit is EUR 15 billion lower than the one we voted in autumn 2018, thanks in particular to the greater dynamism of tax revenues. This better execution is to be emphasized because, as a general rule, governments introduce a very optimistic initial finance bill and then are forced, within the year, to review their assumptions, when their expectations meet the real. For the second consecutive year, the opposite is the case: the October 2018 forecast was too pessimistic. As a result, it cannot be considered that those voted in the BIA were insinuating. In the area of public finances, Parliament is beginning to find its own place: it gives informed authorisation, carries out alert monitoring and carries out a demanding evaluation. We can only rejoice in that. This regulatory bill also marks the increased funding, in 2019, of policies that the majority considers to be priorities. First of all, there is support for human capital, with the rise in the skills investment plan, which aims to train 1 million job seekers and 1 million young people away from the labour market. This policy, which must be amplified, will allow us to resume more quickly tomorrow. Other sectors have benefited from priority support, such as the State's sovereign missions and the energy transition. I must also mention the action for vulnerable people, such as the upgrading of the allowance for adults with disabilities, which has made life easier for a number of our fellow citizens. Finally, the MODEM and related groups welcome the continuation of the effort to restore public finances. By withdrawing the double counting of temporary measures, such as the transformation of the CICE into a reduction in long-term expenses, the government deficit continues to fall in 2019, reaching 2.1% of GDP. This seriousness and budgetary sincerity have a special value in this period of crisis. Indeed, it was thanks to this improvement in public accounts that we were able to respond so quickly and effectively to the economic consequences of the health crisis. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and some benches of the LaREM group]] Strictness, seriousness and evaluation must continue to guide us in the preparation and implementation of future financial laws. For all these reasons, the MODEM Group will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u236	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u237	Today we are considering the second bill to regulate a fiscal year under your full responsibility. You welcome the budgetary implementation of 2019, but the budget deficit is increasing, for the second year in a row, to 3% of GDP, even though it had fallen steadily between 2010 and 2017. The 2019 budget continued the drastic decline in the number of assisted jobs, which went below 83000, to the detriment of social cohesion. It has also reduced, for the first time since 2012, the staff of the Ministry of National Education. This decrease was higher than the employment pattern, as 3816 full-time equivalents – FTEs – were removed when the scheme only provided for 1800. The same movement is evident in the Ministry of Public Action and Accounts: with you, Minister, there are always fewer customs officers...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u238	There's more!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u239	...and cash. Budget 2019 highlights the fiasco of the Innovation and Industry Fund – IIF – that you created in 2018. In its report on the implementation of the 2019 budget, the Court of Auditors points out that this fund "is maintained while it has only financed companies up to 20 % of its objectives for the period 2018-2019". In addition, the main projects financed were already financed by the general budget and the investment programme for the future, proof that the fund did not bring any added value to the traditional budget circuit. Finally, the Court of Auditors notes that the announcement, on 11 March 2020, of the postponement of the privatisation of the ADP group – formerly Aéroports de Paris – makes it highly unlikely that there would be any substitution of cash for the securities provisionally provided to the IIF. So you've been about to privatize ADP, a highly strategic company, to abound a fund that is useless. Without the joint initiative referendum initiated by the Socialist parliamentarians, the Court of Auditors' report would have come too late. It is time to stop the fiasco of the IIF and to announce the definitive abandonment of the privatization of ADP. The 2019 budget also reduced the resources of the National Public Health Agency: its funding was transferred to health insurance in 2020, and it was the latter who had to grant it an exceptional allocation of €4 billion on 30 March last. The 2019 budget has undervalued many social benefits. It has also re-aligned the premium of activity under the pressure of the yellow vest movement, a measure that we have supported, but the state will not be able to replace companies forever for the upgrading of small wages. Finally, the 2019 budget has transformed the CICE into a permanent drop in employers' social contributions. The annual cost to public finances of all general social contribution relief schemes is now approaching EUR 60 billion, and you have chosen not to compensate social security for social contribution exemptions. This dynamic is not sustainable. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote against the 2019 Budget Settlement Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u240	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u241	Even if our minds are very mobilized by the health crisis and the economic and social shock it brings in our country as in many others around the world, we need to take stock of the implementation of the 2019 budget. The last PLFR and the crisis make certain figures derisory, and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance has even spoken of anachronism. However, implementation allows lessons to be learned for future years. The implementation of the budget for 2019 was a continuation of the 2018 financial year. The improvement in the sincerity of the budget has been confirmed, particularly in the expenditure section, in which implementation has been found to be largely in line with the voted budget. The lack of advance decrees in the course of the year is a testament to this mastery, which we welcome. Nevertheless, France's public deficit increased in 2019 to 3% of GDP, up from 2.2% in 2018. This rise is mainly due, as has been said, to the temporary cost of the CICE's shift to expense relief, at a value of 0.9 percentage points of GDP. But without the increase in revenue in 2019, which does not guarantee sustainability, the deficit would have been significantly higher. Expenditure continued to grow at a faster pace than in the previous year by 2.2%, compared with 0.4%. Efforts to restore public finances are therefore insufficient. In its opinion, the High Council for Public Finance notes that the improvement in the structural balance is due to factors that are not the result of government action, such as the reduction in the burden of interest on debt. In 2019, for the second consecutive year, the government's budget deficit is on the rise. You are further away from the level of deficit that would have stabilized the debt rate relative to GDP. Finally, the apparent stabilization of the general government debt, which amounts to 98.1% of GDP, is misleading because, in 2019, the debt increased by more than 65 billion euros, to reach the sum we consider to be an astronomical amount of 2380 billion – the amounts we will know from 2020 will unfortunately have nothing to do with it. All this while net issue premiums reached a record level of almost EUR 20 billion, which, according to the Court of Auditors, certainly reduces the face value of the debt by 6 billion, but postpones its weight in the future, with higher interest rates. The State's net position, i.e. the difference between its assets and liabilities, worsened by €74 billion in 2019 compared to the previous year. When a generation resorts massively to borrowing, it must never forget that it spends the money of future generations, which does not belong to it. In conclusion, the implementation of the 2019 budget is in line with the 2018 budget: it is sincere and reflects an improvement in management, but the state's financial situation has continued to deteriorate. Expenditure efforts have proved insufficient to effectively and sustainably restore our country's public finances. We have therefore addressed the financial, economic and social crisis in which our country is now plunged into unoptimal conditions, which deprive us of the room for manoeuvre to face this new context. However, since the beginning of the quinquennium, the IDU and independent group has called on the Government and the majority, on the occasion of each financial instrument, to make a clearer recovery of public finances, an essential condition for responding calmly to a forthcoming economic crisis. We entered a radically different financial cycle in 2020. We must support the economy with all our strength. That is what the Government proposes to do, through measures that we support. Our group will vote for the adoption of this bill of regulations, more because of the improvement in budgetary sincerity than because of the effort to control spending, which we continue to call for, beyond the current context so particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u242	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u243	If we look at the broad directions of the third amending finance bill for 2020, introduced this morning, and those of the regulatory bill for 2019, which we are debating this afternoon, we are faced with a strange sense of world change. For example, the government deficit, which stood at 3% of GDP at the end of 2019, was 9.1% at the beginning of May and 11.4% this morning. Public debt, which amounted to 98.1% of GDP in 2019, was estimated at 115% for May and 120% for June, not including almost 4% related to stock of premium securities. As for tax revenues, if they were higher than the initial forecast in 2019, we have already forecast for this year that they will be lower, 43 billion euros according to the second draft of the amending finance law, and finally about 65 billion euros according to the third... As everyone can see, it's open bar!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u244	Very nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u245	What are we drinking, Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u246	However, it would be wrong to put everything on the back of the covid-19 crisis. The 2019 Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill is an opportunity for us to take stock of the state of public finances and their management by the Government during the three years preceding the current economic crisis. The first point is that the process of budgetary consolidation continued in 2019, with a healthier implementation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u247	Ah, finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u248	The proof of this is that no advance order was required during the year – even if, Minister, advance orders are not really the central problem of our public finances, provided that we keep in the overall budget envelope – while previous managements had experienced two or even three. However, some management difficulties remain, including the under-budgeting of OPEX: even if you improve it by 200 million euros per year, still remain 406 million – the lowest level since 2012, I grant it to you. One could also refer, as has traditionally been the case, to state medical aid. However, I do not forget that the 2019 budget enshrines a break in the republican pact established by the Veil Act of 1994, since it does not compensate social security agencies for the loss of revenue resulting from the economic and social emergency measures taken. Furthermore, I note that you have changed your position on this point again in the third amending finance bill for 2020, Minister. I congratulate you! However, past mistakes should also be rectified. This choice put social security under stress, even though it was no longer very distant from the return to equilibrium. It is all the more unjustifiable that social accounts have been heavily mobilized to respond to the current crisis. You yourself have indicated that the social security deficit is likely to reach €52.2 billion in 2020. Let us also look at the structural deficit, which is more revealing. The original text of this bill provided for a budgetary effort in this area to be reduced to 0.1 percentage points of GDP. However, since the publication of the nation's accounts by INSEE on May 29, 2020, and in the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance on the third amending finance bill for 2020, this morning, we know that no budgetary effort has been made on this point in 2019: the structural deficit stood at 2.2% in 2018 – and not 2.3%, Minister, according to the correction made by INSEE on May 29th – the same as in 2019, according to the opening article of the text we are debating. The gap with the law on public finance programming now stands at 0.4 percentage points of GDP. We are very far from the effort announced in July 2017. Conclusion: Even before the collapse of the public accounts in 2020, you were unable to achieve your goals. Why have we not achieved the objectives set? The answer to this question is simple, minister: you have not sufficiently reduced expenses. Of course, you pretty much kept the expenses against the forecast of the original 2019 Finance Act. We are even a little below, of 1 billion, thanks in particular to 1.8 billion euros of savings of finding – as we say to the budget management – on the interest of the debt, which fell to us from the sky. However, the analysis of the general government accounts shows that their expenditure rose from EUR 1314 billion in 2018 to EUR 1_348.5 billion in 2019; In other words, they increased in value by EUR 34.5 billion, even though GDP grew by only EUR 65 billion. The increase in public expenditure is therefore in the order of 2.5%. It even stands at 2.6% excluding interest on debt, which explains why debt remained virtually stable in relation to GDP, amounting to 55.7% of GDP in 2018 and 55.6% in 2019. In addition, by applying tax measures to respond to the movement of yellow vests, you have lowered the level of budgetary revenues. For example, compulsory levies have decreased by 0.4% of GDP, or about 10 billion euros, for savings in the public sector barely exceeding 0.2% of GDP. As a result, you are reducing your revenue on credit because of a lack of competitive budget savings. Lastly, the Government had supported, during the examination of the text in committee, that the public debt had been stabilized. The Maastrichtian debt, apparently! But if we take into account the emission premiums, we are no longer 98.1% of GDP, but 100.8% in 2018 and 101.2% in 2019. As a result, the debt continues to rise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u249	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u250	Moreover, how could it stabilize with a global deficit that, according to the nation's latest accounts, increased by 73 billion euros in 2019, even though GDP grew by only 65 billion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u251	Thank you, Mr. de Courson...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u252	Given these analyses and the state of the public accounts, the 2019 regulatory bill confirms one thing: we were absolutely not ready to tackle a new crisis!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u253	Mr de Courson, one more minute is a minute too much, all the more so since I have given nothing of this kind to the other speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u254	It was so interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u255	Then we can admit that a favor is granted... Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u256	She's gonna talk for seven minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u257	Don't worry, dear colleague, I'll be synthetic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u258	Promises, promises!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u259	Year after year, from a finance bill to a regulation bill, I feel like I'm living an endless day – or the eternal return, since one of our colleagues mentioned the Zarathustra of Nietzsche just now! Minister, as your selective austerity policy unfolds, I hear voices rising from school, hospital, rail, employment agencies, EHPADs: all say, in unison, "we are drinking the cup! » Of course, nothing like this appears on your tables of indicators, so much so that you mentioned a virtuous circle in the Committee on Finance a few weeks ago, and that yesterday in this House we were given a large self-satisfaction session that was rather baroque indeed, during which you sought to know how the restoration of public finances favoured support for the economy in the context of the crisis of the Covid-19. In the end, faithful to the rhetoric of your predecessors more than liberals, you reduce any contestation to an exercise of bad faith. Let me tell you that, for 30 years, in the Chamber and before my television screen or by reading the newspapers, I know by heart the content of your vulgate: reduction of public spending, flexibility, race for growth, competitiveness, the famous world before and its eternal return – except for the interest that you, Minister, have shown in a finer analysis of tax expenditure. Based on these precepts, you are delivering a 2019 exercise very similar to the previous ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u260	2020 will be much more interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u261	For example, you are continuing to reduce the corporate tax rate, thanks to which companies will have saved 30 billion euros during this quinquennium – competitiveness obliges, you will tell me! What they will not pay will be compensated by unfair levies, first and foremost VAT. You will have to make up for it, because when it comes to gifts to the most affluent, you do not sneeze! That is why I referred earlier to selective austerity. Thus, the tax credits offered by the approximately 47 polluting tax niches – linked to the budget of the Ministry of Ecological and Solidarity Transition – increase by 30% this year; Everyone knows that they will mainly benefit large companies. For the most modest, there are 7 billion economic and social emergency measures, of course, but they will still end up in the same boxes, since these are defied overtime and other hypocrisy. For 2020, you are already planning €8 billion for the top 20% of households, with the removal of the housing tax – half of its total cost. As a result, despite the nearly 4000 posts abolished in national education, the billion saved on the backs of hospitals and the big deal of common goods, from La Française des Jeux to Aéroports de Paris, the budget rose by 0.7% in real terms. What's the matter? Here it is: your policy consists of a vast misappropriation of funds, consisting of taking from the public services to abound an immense sprinkle of corporatist oboles, according to the needs of revival at the bottom of the cycle. The virtuous circle you evoke is a dubious syncretism between German ordoliberalism and countercyclical clientelism practised by the United States. In short, you abdicate, delegating the decision to the financial markets, to two billionaires and three ennarques. We do not dispute the sincerity of the budget you are presenting: we condemn your model, to which we oppose an alternative solution since 2017. That is why the La France insoumée group will vote against the draft law on the regulation of the budget and the approval of accounts for 2019. As in An Endless Day, therefore,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u262	Without bottom?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u263	This is a film, minister, since you don't seem to know it. I am already anticipating the little music that we will be playing: "Venezia! Venezuela! Don't take it away, as you did yesterday in replying to our colleague Éric Coquerel: this is a very nice country, to which, it seems, those who fled are coming back running, while the epidemic of covid -19 is raging!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u264	Oh, here! Interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u265	Don't take it away! Between Insoumis, in the absence of more serious objections, we race to who will have the most "Venezia! Venezuela! »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u266	Lets you think about it...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u267	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u268	The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group welcomes this draft regulation and will give it its constructive support. We have noted the balance between revenue and expenditure that it achieves. In 2019, the deficit remains under control, and complies with the 3 points of GDP rule. If our public accounts degrade in this year 2020, before, a course has been taken. Thanks to a lot of work we have done, we have transferred concrete purchasing power to the assets of the modest middle class. This relative balance is allowed in particular by the policy to improve the performance of certain tax and non-tax resources. The levy at source is proving to be fiscally productive, thanks to the generalisation of the monthly payment of the tax. However, it will be necessary to be very vigilant with regard to the proper collection of payments and the repeated fulfilment by employers of their payment obligations, particularly in times of crisis. Corporate tax revenues have increased, even though we have reduced the facial rate. We have remedied the optimisation part of tax integration. Much remains to be done, as I keep pointing out, with regard to the minimum taxation of the results and the taxation of intra-group dividends, which are, for the time being, agreed by all specialists, which are excessively zero-rated in view of the levies made in low-tax countries, where the subsidiaries which distribute them are very often established. Outside the field of taxation, public agreements of judicial interest reached the unprecedented amount of 1 billion euros, including 500 million public fines paid by one of the GAFAMs – Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft – for infringements of the anti-fraud law. This is good news, even before Airbus's record fine of over EUR 2 billion is paid. Five hundred million euros is more than the return on the new digital services tax, which I welcome, which amounts to 277 million, even though it is only in its infancy, before any renegotiation of our tax treaties. These tax and non-tax revenues have made it possible to incur solidarity expenditure and social transfers. At the end of 2018, the activity premium was put on the table, to resolute our country socially in emergency. At an unrivalled level, it has made it possible throughout our country to increase the purchasing power of all working citizens. For example, EUR 9.5 billion has been transferred to the assets and is being monitored, as the Court of Auditors pointed out. Since then, many amending finance bills have been passed; They are perfectly necessary. Since the beginning of the year, we have been accumulating them. This steady pace may pose a follow-up problem, particularly for national representation. We believe that new solutions will need to be developed. I now turn to tax expenditures. I stress three recommendations made by the Court of Auditors in its analysis note on budgetary implementation – Mr Minister, you have guessed what the heart of my speech was going to be. First, provide a reporting obligation for each new income tax expenditure – IR – and corporate tax – IS. Next, conduct the program to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of tax expenditures over the remaining period by 2022. Finally, complete the budget documents by specifying the objectives of tax expenditure with performance indicators. In the language of the Court of Auditors, this clearly means, in my view, that it is not yet sufficiently clear where these tax expenditures are going. Hence the need to add declarative constraints for everything we are going to create. Moreover, it is not clear to what extent the objectives of these tax measures are being achieved, particularly in the absence of effective inter-ministerial follow-up. All the more reason to have indicators. With 100 billion euros in tax niches, I think the alarm bell is fired. As for under-executions and over-executions of appropriations and commitment authorizations, they are all the more significant as we are on the eve of a major debate on the multi-annual research programming law in the academic scientific community. Thus, the under-executions on the "Research and Higher Education" mission are worrying when it comes to spending on the future. The under-consumption rate for budgeted jobs is three times the average for all departments. At a time when, for our young workers, higher education must have an inclusive, social and professional function, such signals are worrying. Finally, with regard to justice, it is found that it remains below the average of all ministries in the consumption of jobs. At the beginning of the implementation of a law of programming intended to replenish our judicial and prison system, this point must particularly alert us: justice must be bailed out and urgently transformed in all territories. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that the EDS Group thus recalls its intention to build with the Government, and that it will vote on this bill of regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u269	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u270	Today we are looking at the 2019 budget settlement bill, which aims to report to the national representation and to the French as a whole on the proper implementation of the initial budget. In this respect, the implementation of the 2019 budget is in line with that of the 2018 budget. Indeed, reading the report of the Court of Auditors and the opinion of the High Council for Public Finance make it possible to describe it as sincere, both in its planning of expenditure and in its execution, better controlled. Singing, I said, because the expenses were very much in line with what had been voted on. Thus, for the second time in thirty years, the Government has not made any appropriation or cancellation of appropriations by advance decree. In addition, sub-budgeting amounted to €1.44 billion, which is very close to 2018 and much lower than in previous years. Finally, appropriations under management have been opened or cancelled only in the year-end amending finance law and remain significantly lower than the average observed over the last ten years. These various indicators demonstrate a genuine seriousness, and indeed welcomed by the Court of Auditors, in the budgetary machinery of the State. But let's go back to the numbers. The implementation of the State budget was marked by a deceleration in activity, with growth estimated at 1.3%, after 1.7% for 2018. The government deficit stood at 3 points of GDP, after 2.3 points in 2018, which is mainly justified by the temporary cost of the CICE's shift to burden relief – 0.9 points of GDP – without which the deficit would have been 2.1% of GDP in 2019. Thus, the cost of the CICE, estimated at EUR 19.6 billion in the PLF for 2019, is expected to be reduced to 9 billion in 2020. Note also the implementation of the source levy with a one-month lag – the December levy was only made in January. In addition to these exceptional measures, mention should be made of the measures to support purchasing power voted at the end of 2018, the long-term cost of which for the state budget amounted to €7 billion in 2019. The structural balance, for its part, is reduced by 0.1 percentage points of GDP, due in particular to the decrease in interest charges, as a result of the lower rates, which contributed 0.3 percentage points to the expenditure effort. While the budgetary deficit reached $92.7 billion in 2019, an increase of 22%, other measures contributed positively to the budgetary balance. Revenues from the general budget thus increased by €9.3 billion, including €7.8 billion in tax revenue. General budget spending is down $2.4 billion from the BIA, of which $1.8 billion is on the debt burden. Finally, the special accounts recorded an improvement in their total balance of 3.1 billion euros, of which 1.8 billion were for the partial disposal by the State of its stake in the capital of the French gaming company. In this context, the need for state funding has increased further by €28.6 billion, reaching a total of €220 billion, which is at a much higher level than in the period 2010-2018, where it averaged 188 billion. This need for financing was mainly covered by medium- and long-term debt issues, amounting to €200 billion in LFIs. In this regard, it should be noted that the amount of premiums received, net of haircuts, was significantly higher than the amount shown in the BIA funding table, which was worth $3 billion. After reprocessing by INSEE, the public debt ratio stood at 98.1% of GDP, or EUR 2380 billion at the end of 2019, an increase of 65 billion compared to the previous year, when most of our major European partners had already started a decline. This trajectory is of course worrying, but the health crisis has completely broken the cards and certainly upset the relationship we will have to public deficits in the future. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In conclusion, I would like to stress that the implementation of this budget has been a reflection of genuine efforts to ensure that there is a genuine desire to improve day-to-day management. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u271	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u272	At the beginning of the evening, we are led to take a decision on the implementation of the 2019 budget. This examination is part of an amazing timetable: yesterday afternoon, Members of Parliament On the move, we were organising a debate here to self-congratulate and to welcome yesterday's economic policy, which has been in place since 2017, and today we are hearing in the Committee on Finance the ministers of the economy and public accounts for the presentation of a PLFR to launch tomorrow's policy. It must be said that this bill of regulations is a mixture of both: a budget that may both seem far behind us, but ultimately, and unfortunately, is so in line with the "after world" that you are preparing, minister. Indeed, it seems far away, as it now seems disconnected from the stakes we face and the reality we are living in. Like the previous ones voted by this majority, the budget for 2019 set priorities that are far removed from the great challenges of solidarity so necessary today. With a standard of manageable expenditure falling by 0.7 per cent and a structural effort in positive expenditure on the last two budgets, the Government's action, with the support of its majority, has been limited to pressing public expenditure, in indifference to the country's real needs in terms of investment and public service. The country suffered greatly, despite the fact that public intervention proved its full effectiveness and necessity during the crisis. Moreover, even if these decisions had been taken earlier, it should be noted that the 2019 budget has again deprived itself of several billion euros of tax revenue by maintaining the abolition of the tax on capital – ISF – as well as the flat tax. Like the 2018 budget, he tried to reduce tax revenues so that he could reduce public spending better, a widely identified scheme. One might have thought, and even wish, that this bill of regulations would be the last of its kind, relegated far behind us, after the words of the President of the Republic on the "after days" and the need to "reinvent". And yet, the logic behind it still seems so close to us! It must be noted that the Government does not appear to have altered the harmful economic principles it has defended since the beginning of the quinquennium. I want two examples as proof. The first relates to tax revenues: as in the last two PLFRs, and even though the financing needs are immense, the third PLFR will not include any tax measures to tap into the most affluent – an economic nonsense and a worrying stubbornness when the financing needs have never been so large. The second example relates to public spending and aid to the most modest, this "financial gulf" that costs "a crazy money." As usual, the Government has shown considerable reluctance to assist the most modest ones: if it has derailed in less than a week the business support schemes, which the GDR group does not dispute the need for, it took more than two months to finally set up a meagre envelope for the poorest families. The Communist Group will therefore not vote on this draft regulation, nor did it vote on the 2019 budget. We sincerely believe that the economic policy pursued over the past three years has been particularly harmful to the most fragile since the beginning of this crisis. We only hoped that the hopes raised by the President of the Republic's speeches and the lessons of the crisis we are going through would not remain in vain. But the various rhetorical and financial laws that have since been passed or presented give us little hope. [[Christine Pires Beaune applauds]] However, it is not completely extinguished: in a week's time, I will present here on behalf of my group a proposal for a law aimed at drawing on high incomes and high wealth in the effort of national solidarity. To the majority to show that she was really able to reinvent herself and put her old dusty conservatism in the closet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u273	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u274	To debate the approval of the 2019 accounts has, it must be admitted, something out of date in the context of the health crisis. This may seem anachronistic, purely formal, but it is, in the end, enlightening that our country has approached this crisis in a budgetary situation of weakness compared to other European countries, which the Chairman of the Committee on Finance recalled. The review of this bill provides a photograph of the state budget before the health crisis, allowing us to see that the absence of a return to public finances in 2019 deprives us today of room for manoeuvre that would have been essential to support business and household activity. The majority is trying to distil the idea that budget implementation has been sound, which would make it possible to fund business support plans today. That is incorrect. France is Europe's bad pupil: its deficit of €92.7 billion is twice as high as the euro area average, down sharply from €16.7 billion in 2018, and the debt situation is even worse. In February, the Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, admitted that the black spot remained that of debt: it now stood at 115 per cent of GDP. Since 2011, it has increased by more than 30 points. Yet it was one of your many commitments... The pace of growth in government spending has even increased, and the situation would be even more catastrophic if the interest rates on the loan were not so low. The decline in inflation and the liquidity injected by the Central Bank have a significant part in this decline in borrowing costs. Indeed, the only reason for satisfaction is ultimately the improvement of the budgetary sincerity, which owes much to the providential savings of €1.8 billion on the interest of the debt. Thus, the majority would like to take stock of this 2019 budget by presenting it as a controlled budget. On the contrary, it is an umpteenth budget under stress, which does not comply with the forecasts adopted by the law of 22 January 2018 on public finance programming for the years 2018 to 2022. No structural efforts to reduce the deficit have been made and structural deficits remain significantly higher than expected. In 2017, candidate Macron promised to reduce the burden of public spending to the euro area average. In 2019, the gap from the European average was 8.2 points: you sold us a discipline, competence and control of public finances that do not exist. Now, the margin of manoeuvre is reduced to the strictest size. Mandatory levies remain among the highest in the OECD, with a tax burden of 45% of GDP. Of course, it is not possible to increase such a heavy tax burden. If we follow your logic, how can we consider eliminating the public deficit by controlling expenditure alone, except by a further increase in public debt? In fact, public debt makes it possible to dress up many renunciations. With you, in the world of tomorrow as in yesterday's, it will allow to justify shots of planing, often blind, to the detriment of essential public spending: hospitals, the army, the justice system, the police. Some have even, in their time, tried to put on the yellow vests alone the responsibility for widening the public deficit. What an indignity! So, where's the money going? Where is the money of the French going, taken from their efforts? In poor public spending, which will continue to progress without any control: immigration and its exorbitant costs, state medical aid, tax fraud, social fraud, regional health agencies... Some would like to present the 2019 budget as a controlled budget, allowing for the development of room for manoeuvre to develop business and household support plans. However, the facts are stubborn: in 2019, despite an austerity budget marked by savings plans such as those that led to the breakdown of the public hospital, the public deficit increased further. Debt is still not under control. Unfortunately, the foreseeable consequences will be heavy. Despite these billions coming from the future, France has addressed the present historical crisis under particularly degraded budgetary conditions, which constitutes and will constitute a significant comparative disadvantage compared to our European neighbours. "Make me a good policy, and I'll make you good finances," explained a French Minister of Public Finance in the 19th century.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u275	His name?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u276	[[Nicolas Meizonnet applauds]] From this advice, you should be inspired, because there has been no good policy or finance since you arrived. As a result, some non-attached Members will refuse to support this draft regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u277	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u278	I now call the clauses of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the text is the subject of seventeen amendments. All the groups and speakers were able to speak very broadly – I see Mr de Courson, who has, moreover, expressed more than the others, approved of the head. I therefore propose that the amendments be considered in a dynamic manner, especially since they have already been discussed in the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u279	The rapporteur-general has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u280	As I said earlier in the rostrum, INSEE, having updated growth prospects between the tabling of the text and today's public meeting, from 1.3% to 1.5%, the aim of this amendment is to update the introductory article. Indeed, the cyclical balance is now in surplus by 0.2 percentage points of GDP, which further degrades the structural balance to -2.2 percentage points. The deviation from the Public Finance Programming Act is 0.3 percentage points, which does not involve the correction mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u281	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u282	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No 8, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u283	This is a reflection amendment, which is actually addressed to the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u284	He'll be happy, the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u285	[[Smile]] It's not about the legislator...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u286	It addresses the issue of various central government agencies – ODAC. There is a lot going on in the ODACs and a good part of the committee, following the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, would like to rebudget some of them. This amendment, Mr Minister, is therefore intended only for the sake of knowing what you think of this idea, which is widely shared among the various political families in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u288	Even if the question has not been addressed to me, I would like to tell you that our colleague Michel Lauzzana has enriched the yellow budget as regards the operators on the ODAC list. We will therefore approach the re-budgeting of ODACs in the same way as that of operators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u290	The vast majority of ODACs and the most expensive of them are already included in the accounts, and these are already consolidated by INSEE. Like the rapporteur-general, I do not think that this measure would bring anything. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u291	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u292	We said we were dynamic!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u293	If, Minister: that would mean that Parliament would have control over revenues and expenditures, made in the form of grants. There is indeed an evolution of the ODACs in national accounts: they represent, in consolidated figures, almost EUR 100 billion. So if they were included in the state budget, in the form of tax revenues and subsidies, we would have more control. I withdraw this amendment, but regretting your closure, Minister. This would increase Parliament's power – but that may be why you are not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u294	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 6. Amendment No 2 by the rapporteur-general is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u295	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 10. Perhaps you, Mrs Rubin, would like to support Amendment No 12 at the same time?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u296	As you said, minister, it is important to evaluate public policies, not necessarily to ask for more money, but sometimes to know what the impact and effectiveness of tax expenditures are. This amendment, in line with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, therefore requires real information on the beneficiaries and the objectives of the various tax niches. You mentioned earlier your interest in this type of amendment, Minister, and that is quite normal. I would point out that, apart from CICE, these 474 niches represent 80 billion euros in 2019, and that for 254 of them, we have no estimate of the number of beneficiaries. Given these figures and the urgency caused by the crisis, it is necessary to be able to have serious studies on niches whose number of beneficiaries is unknown and whose objective is unknown. I will come back later to the effectiveness of these niches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u297	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u298	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Court of Auditors, together with its budget implementation notes – NEB – is already doing this work, which I invite you to refer to in order to obtain the answers you are asking about the effectiveness of tax expenditure. You can also consult Joël Giraud's excellent tax enforcement report last summer, which goes much further, given the lack of information on many of these niches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u299	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u300	Unfavorable opinion, too. I am not opposed in principle to what you are proposing, honourable Member, but we are looking at the settlement law here. To satisfy your request, we would have to ask French taxpayers to file returns, which may not be reasonable. On the other hand, perhaps for the future we could discuss together a provision to this effect within the framework of the finance law. It seems to me, however, that this amendment is not of common sense in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u301	I shall now put Amendment No. 12 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u302	But I didn't defend him, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u303	I understood that I did, dear colleague. But as you wish, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u304	Defending this amendment allows me to point out elements that should be analysed. In your opinion, the rapporteur-general, the Court of Auditors has this information. Nevertheless, it demands them, which means that it does not have them, or that it is not very consistent. This amendment No 12, which is also in line with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, tends to have more precise information on tax revenues at the time of the regulation. In fact, when we look at the settlement legislation, we do have the evolution of tax revenues, but they can change differently depending on a number of factors that are important to our knowledge. If, for example, we want to pursue a fairer fiscal policy, we need to know the origin and factors of these developments. Indeed, a tax revenue can change spontaneously with the general level of income, but the evolution can also be linked to the impact of the measures you have taken – I am thinking in particular of flat tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u306	It is also unfavourable. It is not because the Court of Auditors asks for information that the NBS does not bring it. I therefore refer you again to last year's report on the application of the tax law. The work you're asking for was started 18 months ago. I invite you to associate yourself with everything that has already been done. This cleaning work has been done for a large number of small inefficient and inefficient tax niches. We are pursuing it together, but the regulation law is not the right vehicle. We will take this issue up again when we look at the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u307	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u308	This is another information report. Each of these amendments allows me to mention something that should be assessed. If you consider that this data exists, tell me exactly where, in this case, interdepartmental policies are. The documents do not reflect interdepartmental efforts on a given policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u309	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u310	Madam Member, this amendment is very different from the previous ones because it aims to produce cross-cutting policy documents – TPD – for the Spring Evaluation. You are asking to double the work of the administration, which is already writing such documents in the fall for budgetary authorities. I don't think it's reasonable to ask him to do it too for control. Let us begin by making good use of the remarkable budget documentation produced by the Budget Directorate, which is of excellent quality. I am not sure that everyone will do so wisely, otherwise the amendments would be much less numerous. TPDs are available in the fall: once a year should be enough, we can use them widely for the Spring Evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u311	I have before me several amendments, Nos 3, 4, 5, 15, 18, 19, 6 and 7, which can be presented together. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, whose sense of synthesis I know, has the floor to support these eight amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u312	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr. President, I didn't know that quality! These are several requests for reports on problematic budget items. Amendment No 3 concerns the innovation and industry fund, which does not seem to be very effective. Only 20% of its objectives have been achieved, through aid to companies already benefiting from the future investment programme. No. 4 is a request for a report on an important subject that I have already addressed in the general discussion: the decrease in the number of students under the "School education" mission. We would like to understand why this fall, which was supposed to be 1800 full-time jobs, finally reached 3815. The report would provide clarification and analysis of the situation. With Amendment No 5, we are asking for a report on the increase of the rate of tax reduction on the so-called Madelin income in favour of investment in SMEs from 18 to 25 %. This provision has indeed been renewed year after year in the framework of the original financial laws but has never entered into force due to the lack of validation by the European Commission. Amendment No 15 is a request for a report detailing the reasons why the Government chose to cancel EUR 146.1 million of commitment authorisations and EUR 30 million of unconsumed payment appropriations on the "Justice" mission. The two questions that arise are as follows. First, why are commitment capabilities limited on real estate, and how are the difficulties in acquiring land explained? Secondly, why is the employment pattern down, and the difficulty in recruiting supervisors due to their low level of pay? These are real problems that affect justice. Amendment No 15 is a request for a report N° 18 is a request for a report justifying the cancellation of commitment authorizations and payment appropriations not consumed in 2019 in the mission of the general budget of the State "Security", i.e. the gendarmerie and the police. Again, these are important topics. No. 19 is a request for a report justifying the cancellation of payment appropriations not consumed in 2019 of the mission of the "Defence" budget. The cancelled payment appropriations amount to EUR 157.7 million, this cancellation being based almost exclusively on the 212 "Support for Defence Policy" programme. Amendment No 6 is a request for a report detailing the reasons why the share of projects supported by the provision of equipment for rural areas – DETR – and the allocation of support for local investment – DSIL – to contribute to the energy transition was only 25%, not 35% as planned – this failure being more particularly attributed to DETR. In order to decline environmental policies in the territories, an analysis of this situation is necessary. Finally, point 7 is a request for a report on the decrease in appropriations of the National Public Health Agency, which would allow to analyse in particular the consequences of its lack of resources on the management of the crisis of the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u313	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u314	[[Smile]] Well done, Mr. Bricout. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u315	I will respond quickly, but on each of these amendments. With regard to No 3, I agree with your questions about the Innovation and Industry Fund, especially in view of the current uncertainties surrounding the privatization of ADP. I do not deny that there is a question about a contribution of securities to the IIF rather than a budgetary allocation, as is the case at present. I believe that Xavier Roseren and Olivia Gregoire also mentioned this issue in the Spring of the Evaluation. I have no doubt that the Government will deal with it, rather in the autumn, within the framework of the PLF, by referring to the new authorization of these appropriations and therefore the future of the IIF. The question will also likely arise in a somewhat wider context of recovery. In any case, it is a relevant amendment on the substance. Amendment No 4 refers to the implementation gap concerning school education staff. The figure may seem high but in proportion to the number of public officials in national education, the gap remains minimal. I would also like to point out that, although the number of FTEs may have decreased slightly, the overall staff costs have increased by EUR 1.2 billion, and above all that this budget was over-implemented in 2018, which explains why it is slightly under-implemented in 2019. With Amendment No 5, you are asking for a report which, if you read your explanatory statement, could be called 'In the meantime Madelin', which I find quite friendly. Most of all, I'm totally joining you on the bottom. I do not understand why the IR-SME scheme – the reduction in income tax on cash subscriptions to the capital of unlisted SMEs – has still not gone up to the rate we voted on since the PLF for 2018, and I hope the Government will give us an explanation on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u316	This follows the removal of the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u317	It is a European dossier that we have been dealing with in each exercise for three years, and yet this mechanism is not being applied. I regret this because it was an important attractive factor, one of the conditions for productive reinvestment linked to taxation that we had set at the beginning of the mandate. So, like you, I'm waiting for Madelin, and above all an answer! With regard to Amendment No 15, which deals with justice, you are right in substance: there have been difficulties in recruiting. However, I would like to remind you that the creation of a loyalty bonus of 8000 euros for a six-year commitment to Île-de-France has been announced by the Government in order to remedy the problem of the attractiveness of certain professions in the ministry. I do not fully agree with you on the "Security" mission. The gap seems to me extremely small, with appropriations being reopened in the financial law amending for 2019. The Government cancels a little of this, which makes the very good management of this mission no less sincere. I come to your question about jobs, which will lead me to enter into a very technical debate that will not necessarily interest everyone. As you know, MP, the difference between FTEs and FTEs – working full-time equivalents – is that the former are expressed in stocks while the latter represent flows. However, to judge the sincerity of the execution, it is preferable to think in FTEs, even if the lag with the programming law is made in relation to the FTEs. The difference from what was planned is 0.8%, which is less than the usual 1%, so we are perfectly in the nails. With regard to DSIL and DETR, the annual performance report of the Mission "Relations with local and regional authorities" stresses the need to take the results carefully. This was the first time we had set a target of 35% of projects contributing to the energy transition. Next year we will see how to adapt these performance indicators to bring them closer to reality. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 7 and Public Health France, I would like to refer you to Mrs Louwagie's excellent work, and in particular to her research on the establishment of preparedness and response to health emergencies, carried out in the framework of the Spring of the Evaluation, and, of course, to the committee of inquiry on the management of the crisis of the Covid-19. I call for all these amendments to be withdrawn, since they are requests for reports.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u318	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u319	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u320	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout, do you maintain your amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u321	[[Smile]] I take them off, it'll save time...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u322	Thank you, Mr. Bricout. The rapporteur-general has referred to ways to change some of the issues that you have addressed and which seem to be the subject of consensus.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u323	Except for Amendment No 15!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u324	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u325	This is a request for a report on tax niches. We do not want to know the number of beneficiaries but to have a document that would present a method and a timetable for implementing a program to assess the effectiveness of these niches, which is not known.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u326	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u327	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u328	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u329	There is some proximity between Mr Bricout's amendments and this one. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u330	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u331	With this amendment, we are asking for a study that would be somewhat the opposite of the exercise of self-satisfaction that you carried out yesterday around your budget. This document would study the impact of the austerity that characterizes the budget for 2019 on the failure of public services, which was a major obstacle to the proper management of the crisis of the covid-19. With this report, which would offer another look at the budget, we could look with sincerity at what has been dysfunctional, which I think would be instructive.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u332	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u333	You're talking about austerity as we spend 20% of our GDP on saving our economy... I've seen more austere!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u334	Hyper austere, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u335	I was talking about the 2019 budget, you know that very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u336	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u337	We all know that 2020 is an annus horribilis for public finances. Regarding 2019, the problem is that your amendment cannot be accepted in a piece of legislation such as a settlement law. Unfavourable notice or request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u338	No request for explanation of vote was made.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u339	Mr. de Courson, perhaps?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u340	I put to the vote the whole of the Budget Regulation and Account Approval Bill for 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-10-O1232.u341	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion of the proposal for a law to reduce corporate social security contributions; Discussion of the proposal for a law to introduce a "zero burden" scheme for the employment of young people under 25 years of age; Discussion of the proposal for a law to introduce a reduced VAT rate in the tourist accommodation sector, cafes and restaurants; Discussion of the proposal for a law to cancel social and tax charges during the state of emergency; Discussion of the draft law allowing the departmental councils to grant subsidies to SMEs, PMI and artisans weakened by the Covid-19 crisis; Discussion of the proposal for a law to exempt VAT on masks, gels and disinfectants. The meeting is adjourned.
