ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on the conditions for the placing on the market of certain plant protection products in the event of a health hazard for sugar beet (No 3483, 3489).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u2	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u3	This reminder under article 58, paragraph 2, is based on rule 48, paragraph 11, of the Rules of Procedure, which allows the Government, in exceptional circumstances, to change the agenda of the work of the National Assembly. [["Not too much! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] This morning, the Government did not request the postponement of the review of the law on rehabilitating neonicotinoids. France is facing a pandemic; France faces Islamist terrorism; the Vigipirate plan is raised to the level "emergency attack". It is shameful that, in circumstances where we need national unity, the debate on the rehabilitation of neonicotinoids continues discreetly, as if nothing had happened. National unity is national unity; It is not, by cynicism, to attack ecology at the same time and to challenge a law that constitutes a step forward for the protection of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u4	Everyone will have noted, Mrs Batho, that your speech was more about the substance of the text than about a lack of knowledge of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u5	Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u6	I am pleased that we can meet today, in a particularly difficult context, to complete the discussion of this bill. As we have said and repeated, the text in no way opposes ecology and economy. On the contrary, it is the guarantee that the exit of NNI will not leave the sugar beet sector in the rut. This text is proof that ecology can rinse with pragmatism and agroecological advances. The impasse in the sugar beet sector, due to the ravages of jaundice and a past lack of legislative logic, required strong and courageous action. The Government has done so. I welcome the commitment and courage of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has spared neither his time nor his energy. The text originally proposed by the Government offered many guarantees. He proposed the possibility of derogation from the ban on neonicotinoids – NNI – under conditions strictly regulated at the French and European level. This possibility was also limited in time until 1 July 2023, which was necessary for the completion of long-standing scientific work. The National Assembly and the Senate have strengthened these guarantees. The National Assembly has explicitly limited the scope of the text in Article 2 to sugar beet seed only; In addition, it decided in committee and improved in session the creation of a supervisory board with broad prerogatives and balanced composition including parliamentarians. The Council's task will be to deliver an opinion on the exemption orders and to ensure the effective follow-up of research on the replacement of neonicotinoids. I welcome the work of the Senate in the same constructive spirit, and I would like in particular to thank the rapporteur and chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mrs Sophie Primas, for the quality of our discussions throughout the discussion of the text. The Senate advanced the date of entry into force of the bill no later than December 15th and ensured that the advice of the Supervisory Board would be given within a time limit determined by order-in-council. He also added two additional items. The first, which provided for the submission of an impact assessment prior to the abolition of any plant protection product, met a legitimate concern but presented operational difficulties; The Senate therefore agreed in the Joint Joint Committee that it was preferable to delete it. The second article explicitly recalls in the Rural Code a possibility provided for by European law: the Minister of Agriculture may, in certain specific cases and in the absence of European measures, suspend imports of foodstuffs which do not comply with European standards if they pose problems for health or the environment, in particular because of the use of banned pesticides. I welcome this article, which seems to be an excellent signal sent to the European Union. The Joint Joint Committee, whose work was carried out yesterday in record time, adopted six minor amendments to the text adopted by the Senate. In addition to the deletion of Article 3, which I recalled, we decided to reduce and improve the composition of the Supervisory Board in order to avoid making it a plethora committee, necessarily ineffective. In this spirit, we considered it preferable to mention in the law only the presence of the actors concerned with the problems of neonicotinoids at the stage of cultivation, and not that of the actors concerned with the finished product. In the same vein, the derogation order will, as foreseen in the original text, be co-signed only by the Ministries of Agriculture and the Environment. The adopted drafting also clarified, after lengthy discussions, how parliamentarians will be appointed to the Supervisory Board; they will be appointed by the presidents of the two assemblies, not by the presidents of the committees. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my conviction that this difficult but necessary text required genuine political courage. The ecology of "greener than green in me, and worse for others" will never be the leitmotif of this assembly. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the parliamentarians of all the benches who have sought, without caricature or dogmatism, to reconcile the imperative of food health with that of environmental protection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u7	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u8	I am again before you to defend the sustainability and the accompaniment, during the transition, of the French sugar beet industry. As I have said on several occasions, my commitment to the agro-ecological transition is resolved and focused on the goal of agriculture fully rooted in its environment. However, we are currently at an impasse. We must respond to the exceptional situation in the sugar beet sector, which employs nearly 46,000 people in our country. I say this clearly, as I have always done throughout these debates: it is not a question of opposing economics and ecology, but of asking a question of sovereignty. Do we want to make the agroecological transition, which is absolutely necessary, with the French sugar beet industry, or do we accept its disappearance? That's the point. If the sector were to disappear, our sugar consumption would not decline and imports would replace domestic production. Yes, the sugar beet industry is in danger; The blame is on this aphid of which we know little yet. The first harvests made since the first reading of the text by the National Assembly have confirmed our fears by showing that the plots are sometimes very heavily affected. Whatever our political background, we are all in favour of stopping neonicotinoids. Yes, we are all in favour of the agro-ecological transition, which farmers are the first to wish for. But, as I say clearly and firmly, this transition does not consist in killing a French sector and then imposing sugar from countries that are often less so than ours on an environmental level. This text is in no way a renunciation, it is a text of sovereignty to carry out the agro-ecological transition with the French sector. More specifically, the draft law aims to restore – as far as possible until 2023 – the possibility of using, as many Member States already do, Article 53 of the European Regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market, which allows derogations to be sought if the situation so requires. I repeat that section 53 provides the executive with the possibility of requesting an exemption only if it is impossible to resort to "other reasonable means". The bill is part of a more comprehensive plan that we have already discussed at length. I would like to thank you for the quality of these substantive discussions, as the many arguments exchanged have made it possible to advance several elements. The plan includes the mobilisation of an additional €7 million for a public and private research programme aimed at accelerating the identification of effective alternatives and enabling their use in real-life conditions. These solutions do not yet exist at the production level; They will most likely arise from a mixture of agronomic solutions, biosecurity measures and seed research. The plan also contains a number of commitments made as part of a prevention plan that we also discussed in the session. This comprehensive plan, which will have to be implemented with strength and determination, will require strong collegial follow-up including national representation. This is the task assigned to the supervisory board proposed by the National Assembly during the committee work by the Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The oversight board, which will include parliamentarians, will have to ensure that the plan is implemented so that 100% of neonicotinoid use can be replaced as quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, by amendment, when you adopted the text in the National Assembly, you included the term sugar beet, not only in the title, but also in the body of the bill. At the time, I had issued an opinion of wisdom, because I wanted to deepen the legal implications of this mention: the choice of limiting derogations from sugar beet could raise difficulties with regard to the principle of equality dear to the Constitutional Council. I can now say, after multiplying the legal work with my services and those of the Government, that strong arguments justify the difference in treatment introduced in favour of the sugar beet sector. First, compared to other crops, the use of neonicotinoid-coated seeds for sugar beet has a more limited effect on pollinators.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u9	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u10	I say "more limited", I do not say that it does not exist – I speak only in relation to other cultures. Secondly and above all, the economic impact of the ban on neonicotinoids is particularly serious for the sugar beet sector. Indeed, it is one of the singularities of this sector that to be dependent downstream of the sweets, which depend in return on the amount of beet arriving at their doors. For one or two seasons, the planters would have to give up planting so that the sugar beet stock would collapse and the sugar plants would be condemned to shut down, causing the whole sector to stop. Indeed, it is simply not possible to import sugar beets to run these plants. In the event of a ban on neonicotinoids, in the absence of a reasonable alternative to these in this particular field, the yield losses would be very large and would cause the planters to abandon this culture, leading to the infernal circle that I have just described. This bill has been the subject of many exchanges, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate. Thank you for the quality of our work over the last few weeks. Senators passed this bill on Tuesday, with three amendments that made it more operational. The rapporteur has already mentioned them. This includes the extension of the Supervisory Board to the Institute of Organic Agriculture and Food (ITAB), the framework of the time limit for the Supervisory Board to deliver its opinion, and the advance from the date of entry into force to 15 December. The Joint Joint Committee met yesterday. I very much welcome his work, which has benefited from the involvement of many parliamentarians: Mr Roland Lescure, Ms Sophie Primat, Mr Grégory Besson-Moreau, Ms Claire O'Petit and several others. This involvement made it possible to conclude the work on this text quickly, in record time, and to reconcile the positions of the two assemblies, in order to propose developments which further clarify its implementing rules. I agree with the clarifications on the composition of the Supervisory Board – by making it more explicit, they will help secure appointments. I also take note of the addition of an article recalling that the Ministers responsible for agriculture and consumption have the right to "take precautionary measures in order to suspend or lay down special conditions for the introduction, importation and placing on the market in France of foodstuffs or agricultural products", in compliance with the European Regulation. It is obviously a difficult, important text on which we have worked a great deal. Again, it is not intended to oppose economics and ecology. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It's a piece of sovereignty. We choose the agroecological transition, as long as it integrates the French sector. So today and tomorrow, our citizens will be able to live in a country where French sugar is produced and sugar beet is grown. We will continue to make progress on this issue, which is of great importance to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u11	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. On this motion of rejection, I am seized by the La France group, which has not submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u12	Whether or not we lose a political battle, we must, whenever possible, continue to fight for cultural change. This is what the Socialist and related group has done in civility, respect, without excess, based on the principle that our interlocutors were sincere. We have been, on the left, the force of proposal, entering into the substance of the subject, without prejudice, by studying the data of the problem from a scientific and economic point of view. Although this motion of rejection was unfortunately not adopted, I will have the opportunity to present our plan B – B as a beet – which provides for an alternative solution that takes into account both social, economic, commercial, scientific and technical issues – because there is one, contrary to the famous formula attributed to Margaret Thatcher. Finding an alternative means making an effort, and above all denying the good conscience that some of them, in the majority and the Government, seem to be adorning themselves. Without accusing anyone, I would like to restore some truths. The first concerns the relationship between Parliament and the executive. Minister, I come back to a point that I pointed out to you; You had announced that you would take it into account, that you would make it a personal matter, as Minister of Agriculture and Farmers. We debated here, in a socialist parliamentary niche, a bill adopted by the Senate, creating a fund to compensate the victims of plant protection products. Consideration of this proposal, which introduced the compensation fund for phyto-victims, a real innovation, as well as the compensation fund for victims of asbestos in its time, could not be completed due to lack of time. However, at the time, Agnès Buzyn had agreed to initiate a process, almost exactly taking up our proposals in an article of the bill to finance social security for 2020 creating a fund to compensate the victims of pesticides. In December 2019, the text was adopted. Last week, while I was planning to propose that the funds for this fund be increased as part of the review of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2021, I was surprised to learn that the Order-in-Council establishing the fund was still not published. I hope, Minister, that you will find time to publish this decree, together with your colleague the Minister of Solidarity and Health, who is certainly very busy. This would be the mark of your respect not only for Parliament, unanimously in favour of this measure, but also and above all for the victims – whose number and situation you know – who are waiting for compensation for the damage caused by the misuse of pesticides. We have the feeling that you have shown the same contempt of Parliament in considering the bill for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and for a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all," says EGALIM. This is the meaning of the appeal that I filed before the Council of State, with the support of the Socialist and Related Group, on Order No. 2019-361, concerning certificates of conservation of plant protection products – CEPP. The scheme had been adopted under a bill of February 2017, of which I was rapporteur, drawn up in consultation with the then Minister of Agriculture, Stéphane Le Foll: the proposal for a law on the fight against the grabbing of agricultural land and the development of biocontrol. But our vote was flouted: several times, when we examined the EGALIM bill, the members of the Government assured us that they would maintain these certificates, even though they did not actually do so. The said order is not yet discharged from my appeal, which is aimed at denouncing an excess of power of the Government. On these issues, as on so many others, when Parliament is not respected, when the progress achieved through the patient work of the oppositions and the majority is not applied, or are flouted by subsequent laws and regulations, it is an attack on what brings us together and which is more precious than ever: democracy, the Republic. I do not mention these subjects as a farmer converted to organic farming before it was fashionable, almost a quarter of a century ago, but in the continuity of my parliamentary work. In 2014, he led me to support amendments on biocontrol, continuing the momentum launched by my colleague Antoine Herth under the previous legislature. That same year, and I am very proud of it, I made possible the creation of a phytopharmacovigilance device, led by the ANSES – National Agency for the Safety of Food, the Environment and the Work – which allows, once the products are authorised, to control their toxicity and to study their removal in the event of epidemiological or environmental damage not provided for in the previous studies. In 2014, I also submitted to the Prime Minister the report "Pesticides and Agroecology: The Fields of the Possible". In February 2017, I tabled the proposed law on combating agricultural land grabbing and developing biocontrol, which introduced the CEPP and initiated land reform. That same year, at the request of Nicolas Hulot and Stéphane Travert, then ministers, I participated in the animation of the general states of food. All these political actions draw continuity; They converge and rise in power. Beyond partisan systems, they are building a prevention solution, to get out of the excessive dependence – which you yourself denounced this morning, Minister – on phytopharmacy in agricultural production techniques. It seems to me that a breakdown took place from November or December 2017: the policy of prevention has been abandoned. Even in the majority, the most informed Members admit that the Ecophyto plan – in other words, France's instrument, in accordance with European directives, to control the use of plant protection products – has failed. Let's be honest to look at the chronology. In 2016, when we passed the law for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, which prohibits the use of neonicotinoids on 28 million hectares of useful agricultural land in France – a use that you now want to restore on the 400,000 hectares of sugar beet – we had four years to act. I am comfortable talking about it, because I had not voted on the timetable proposed by Barbara Pompili, then Secretary of State for Biodiversity, who, in my view, provided for a ban too fast. I had voted in favour of an alternative solution, defended by the then Minister of Agriculture, Stéphane Le Foll, which provided a smoother transition towards the same objective, that of a total ban in 2020. For those four years, what have you done? What funds have been allocated for the preparation of this ban? Of course, the minister has drawn up a list of them, but they are not up to the challenge, as we know. Neither the profession nor the state have been on the rendezvous. I will not have the cruelty to ask you to take stock of the technical meetings organized at the initiative of the Ministry with the National Institute for Agricultural Research – INRA – and the other institutes concerned, to deal with sugar beet, an issue already identified in 2016. Where are the supporting documents, the minutes of the meetings organized by successive ministers to address this very sensitive nodal point? There are none, or almost any, and I deeply regret it. Neither on sugar beet nor on any other issue, you have applied the prevention policy. You did not use one of its main instruments, the DEPHY farms – demonstration, experimentation and production of references on plant protection efficiency systems – which I was discussing today with the president of the APCA – the permanent assembly of the chambers of agriculture. He does not, he says, have the slightest means to deploy this policy; we would need additional funding that we are asking for year after year. You also did not use the tremendous lever of B to B – business to business progress – certificates of plant protection product savings, which combine the sectors and territories. These devices have been forgotten and we have missed historical opportunities. I'll give the rapeseed culture as evidence. Do you know that we can achieve an eighth of the goal of reducing NODUs by 50% – the number of doses per unit –, targeted by the Ecophyto II plan, simply by mixing varieties – which allows us to fight against predators such as meligeths and big altitis – and by using companion plants, which also bring 40 units of nitrogen, replacing as many mineral fertilizers? Through such measurements, the treatment frequency index – IFT is divided by 1.5. Thus, for rapeseed, simple agronomic practices enable us to achieve one eighth of our objectives! Similarly, a policy of prevention, innovation – not only in terms of molecules, but also of chemical ecology – would have been possible for sugar beet, if we had worked from 2016 onwards. You are now asking for a three-year delay, because in four years you have not taken on your responsibilities and have not established a prevention plan. This would have prevented us not only from the impasse in which we find ourselves today – since the reintroduction of neonicotinoids poses a danger to biodiversity, due in particular to the phenomena of remanence – but also a discredit for public speech. Take our responsibilities; that is the meaning of this motion of prior rejection. We could do otherwise, and the state, the profession and the industry are responsible for the situation. We propose as an alternative solution a plan for sharing value and innovations; These measures would be deployed within three years and their costs can be offset. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne also applauds]] Above all, with this motion of rejection, I would like to warn you and, with you, all our fellow citizens about the cost of public insurrection: the lack of prevention is paid ten times more on arrival, because it is about the health of men and the health of the earth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u13	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u14	Since we have already discussed these issues a lot, I will be brief. I made a commitment to issue the decree establishing the compensation fund for pesticide victims very quickly. That will be the case. I will not let anyone imply that the state, or the administration of my department, does not respect the will of the legislator. We are sometimes too slow – I accept this criticism, but the whole ministry is obviously republican and aligns itself with the laws adopted by Parliament. I uphold this republican principle, like all members of the public service, of which I have been a member. Then I cannot let it be said that nothing has been done. You said it yourself in 2016, agricultural research takes time. The whole question now is how to go faster. That is what this €7 million action plan will enable us to do, which is more substantial than anything that has been put on the table so far, which does not mean, I insist, that some would have sat down on the decisions and would not have sought solutions. We will talk about DEPHY farms in the context of the budget discussion. They have 13 million euros and the real challenge lies in the generalisation of what has been experienced at their level. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] To take up Frédéric Descrozaille's remarks, we could probably have done better and found a solution, but is it because we do not have a solution that we should not extend our hand to a field on land? On the contrary, it is better to assume our responsibilities in the face of this situation, by improving what can be improved and by maintaining pressure where necessary, without however abandoning the principle of agro-ecological transition of the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u15	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr. Stéphane Travert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u16	One could argue with the envi, multiply, as some do, the sentiny and definitive sentences, but this is not the time, this is not in the air of time. True to the style that characterizes me, I prefer to try to find the lasting compromises that will allow us to move forward to draw the track from the rut in which it is located. The Members of the House of Representatives of the Republic on the move will not vote on the motion to reject beforehand because, despite the questions that may have arisen within the group, we consider that solutions have been found and that clear commitments have been made, and not only in the last few weeks – I also refuse to hear that nothing has been done in the last four years, knowing that at the time of the debate on the 2016 law, the warnings had not failed: the removal of neonicotinoids could lead some lines into impasses, which proved to be true for sugar beets. The Government has therefore proposed measures that we adopted at first reading and which have been validated by the CMP. I welcome the agreement that has been reached with the senators who are providing the sugar beet industry alone with a well-structured solution that will enable it to undertake the necessary transition work for the future. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why we want this CMP to come to an end, which is what the entire industry is waiting for in order to get to work with the technical institutes quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u17	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u18	Some of the texts we are considering in this House are intended to include in the law a number of major principles, such as the law on the prohibition of neonicotinoids; Others, on the other hand, focus on an infinity of particular cases, to the point of looking like inventories at the Prévert. I remember a recent text that mentioned honey as well as Die's cleavage... But the balance is at the middle of the way. The main principles must be put into practice. It is the whole purpose of this bill that intends to address the insurmountable difficulties faced by betteraviers for whom the ban on neonicotinoids has probably been too premature. It thus reflects the sense of responsibility of the Government and that of our two assemblies that have worked on the bill. Our Group welcomes the work of the CMP and will therefore oppose this motion to reject it beforehand. However, in the midst of dissonant voices, we draw your attention to certain points. Firstly, three years is very short, so we will have to act very quickly and not let the industry believe that, at the end of this period, it will be able to call for a new derogation. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Secondly, it seems to me that beyond the beet sector, the real question is rather that of pollinators and bees, and of the ecological poverty of our cereal plains. I hope that the future CAP – the common agricultural policy – will allow us to provide some answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u19	[[Smile]] I believe, Mr. Potier, that you wish to give us an explanation of vote on your own motion of rejection...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u20	He's taking it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u21	What happens to the bettership industry is not a fatality; It was predictable and, indeed, the responsibilities are both public and private. I wanted to say that, which does not prevent us from accompanying the industry today and finding solutions. I then object to the idea that there is no alternative. We will demonstrate that other avenues exist, which involve sharing values and financing losses. Finally, you set up a supervisory board, even though in 2017 you decided to remove the parliamentarians who participated in the oversight board of the Ecophyto plan, which has hardly met since that date. What is the point of creating committees by molecule and culture, even though the overall control mechanism for prevention and agronomic solutions has been abandoned by your majority? It is a governance problem, just as important as the rest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u22	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u23	I am surprised at the tone of this so-called rejection motion. This was more of an overview of the work of the National Assembly on the implementation of the European Plant Protection Products Directive, which provides for each Member State to present a plan to reduce its dependence on pesticides. It also provides that, in the event of a health emergency, Member States may decide on derogations, which is exactly the subject of the draft law. The situation should therefore satisfy you, Mr Potier, who are very attentive to the articulation between our texts and the European texts. We are restoring here a possibility of derogation but a minimum, only for sugar beet. Similarly, you, like me, are committed to biodiversity and agroecology, and you know that, for them to progress and for agriculture to make its ecological transition, we need all the energies, on the ground, in farms and in centres for agricultural technical studies – CETA. [[Applause on several benches of the groups Acte ens and Dem]] The rejection of this text would be seen as a punitive measure by the 25,000 farmers involved in the beet sector. Let me conclude by saying that I am surprised that a member of the Socialist Group is deaf to these 25,000 farmers and to the 41,000 employees in the sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u24	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u25	The urgency of the situation leads me to oppose the motion to reject it beforehand. That being said, I am not following you, Minister, on the path you have chosen to allow farmers to reuse neonicotinoids within the next three years. I would have preferred Parliament to allow you to sign an order, for the first time, a second time or even a third. Indeed, it will be up to us, Members, in our constituencies, to be accountable not only to farmers but also to all environmentalists and, in particular, to beekeepers. The ban on neonicotinoids was taken four years ago and, if we want to change the practice, Parliament must put pressure on you, Minister, and put it mainly on the beet industry, and in particular on the beet technical institute – ITB. I am not against producers or farmers who will organise the sector under the conditions they are asked for or who will turn to other crops, but our responsibility is to put pressure on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u26	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u27	We have taken note of your arguments in defence of this regressive law, which reintroduces neonicotinoids into beet cultivation: you fear job destruction and a collapse of the industry, you know no doubt right; you fear the use of substitutes that are more harmful than neonics, you are probably right; you feel that the impact on pollinators would be limited, it is not certain; you argue that the ban on attractive plantings for bees near these fields would be sufficient to limit the impact on these fields, it is not certain either. Members of the Freedom and Territories Group share concerns. For my part, like the majority of the group, I believe that the risks associated with the use of these substances are too great and justify maintaining a total ban; The protection of pollinators and bees must be absolute. We fear that with this exception, the Pandora's box will be opened from which other similar derogations will arise – some channels have already requested them. The August 2016 law placed the principle of non-regression at the top of the environmental code, committing us to a dynamic of progress. I know, minister, that you are progressive in environmental matters, but with this bill, that is not the case. France will lose its leading position in the field ecology game. However, elected in a constituency in Medoc, I hope that we will remain a leader in these matters. That is why I would prefer – but it is not permitted by the Constitution – that such measures should be the subject of regional laws rather than pollute Parliament. For all these reasons, the majority of the Libertés et territoires group will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u28	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u29	In 2017, sugar production quotas and the minimum regulatory price for beet were abandoned. This has led in particular to the explosion in the production of large sugar-producing countries and the collapse of world prices. To save the industry, the solution lies mainly in the return to quotas, the setting up of floor prices and the exit of overproduction logics, certainly not in the reintroduction of pesticides, under the pretext of the presence of an aphid. We all know that neonicotinoids do not cause anything less than soil and water pollution, and scientific studies have demonstrated their responsibility for the immense loss of all kinds of living beings. The use of coated seeds does not solve the problem. Indeed, only 2 to 20% of the active substance is actually absorbed by the plant; The remaining 80% are spreading quietly into the environment and are responsible for insidious pollution, since it is invisible and extremely destructive. We have largely demonstrated these facts in the debates, and no one here can ignore them. [[Protest by the rapporteur and the chairman of the Joint Joint Committee]] On Monday evening, the Senate had rejected article 1 of that text before, unfortunately, revoking at the request of the Government, proof that the reintroduction of seeds and pesticides polluters and killers of biodiversity is not self-evident. In 2016, the current minister of ecological transition was at the forefront of denouncing the danger of neonicotinoids; In 2020, she was strangely absent from all the debates on the subject. It is voluntary that the sector has not prepared itself to grow without neonicotinoids: Members do not have to cover this deliberate choice, accompanied by an unbearable blackmail which can quickly be summed up by "either you authorise pesticides or the industry disappears and with it thousands of jobs". [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] I fully believe that, in the general interest for which we have been elected, we must all vote on the motion to reject our colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u30	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u31	I will try to explain to you why our group will vote on the motion to reject this text beforehand. In assessing this bill, we can all be humble. Certainties are displayed, but we know very well what is happening. We ourselves, by voting against this text, know the reality that producers face in the territories. Since last year, 5000 hectares of sugar beet cultivation have disappeared in the department of Jean-Paul Dufrègne and in mine, because Cristal Union has abandoned the producers; Fortunately, the Limagrain cooperative took over to try crops other than sugar beet. We know the difficulties of producers and we do not deny the existence of a real economic problem. Members of our group are confronted in their departments with producers facing these difficulties. However, even if it is not easy, we choose to oppose this text, because we believe that some of its provisions are causing serious damage to the environment. The bill has an extremely symbolic dimension, as it responds to a real economic emergency and to a great social suffering among producers through a return to environmental progress. Moreover, it does not take into account the real problems: have you analysed the strategy of the three major sugar groups, Tereos, Cristal Union and German Südzucker? Have we asked ourselves the question of the economic impact, territory by territory, based on the practices and loss of yield found? Has the deployment of tools and means of economic compensation been studied, in order to avoid this catastrophic drift for the environment? I will have the opportunity to return, with humility once again, to the general discussion. You understand the reasons for our vote in favour of the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u32	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u33	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 128 Number of votes cast 126 Absolute majority 64 For adoption 28 Against 98
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u34	We come to the general discussion. The time allowed for each speaker to speak is five minutes. Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u35	The Joint Joint Committee met yesterday morning to reach agreement on the version of the text on the conditions for placing certain plant protection products on the market in the event of a health hazard for sugar beet. This has been a successful conclusion, which we can welcome. This reflects the consensus of parliamentarians on the importance of this bill and this derogation for the sugar beet sector. This shows the importance of action to save the industry and of taking measures to safeguard our national food sovereignty. The choice we made in this House on 7 October on the authorisation of derogations met two imperatives: the preservation of our food sovereignty, the necessary and imperative agro-ecological transition. No, it's not a reintroduction of neonicotinoids! As a reminder, 90% of pre-uses will remain prohibited. No, neither is it an open door to more derogations, since the text limits them to sugar beet alone. The spirit of the text that we defended here a few weeks ago has been preserved, which we can rejoice at. As in the version voted by the Assembly, exemptions from the use of plant protection products will only be possible by joint decision of the Ministries of Agriculture and Environmental Transition. The Committee for the Evaluation of Progress in the Sector has also been retained. As we have voted here, the derogation will be limited to sugar beet alone, without any other possible derogation, and limited in time, until 2023. Only seed coating will be possible, excluding any spraying. Seeding, planting and replanting of attractive plants of pollinating insects will be temporarily prohibited after the use of these seeds. In recent days, we have heard statements that minimize the impact of yellowish on beet crops and lightly take the loss of farmers. Who can be pleased, or at least feel "reassuring", with the loss of "only 10% to 20%" of yields? How can we decide to remain motionless in the face of the distress of a sector? What we won't produce, we'll import! Is that really what we want? As France recovers, the preservation of our wealth and national champions is essential. By 20 October, for example, and according to figures from the interministerial delegate of the sugar beet sector, certain losses could range from 70% to 80%. I already hear the voices of those who would contest these figures: of course, the situation is not homogeneous throughout the territory, but do we have to take the question from the "less serious" side? For example, in Seine-et-Marne, the average production gap of the last five years and 2020 reflects a loss of 62% for unirrigated plots and 37% for irrigated plots. In order to preserve our producers in countries outside the European Union and the standards applicable thereto, the Joint Joint Committee has retained the article proposed by the Senate authorizing the Executive to suspend or lay down special conditions for the introduction, importation and placing on the market in France of foodstuffs or agricultural products containing prohibited substances on our soil. This article is in line with what I had voted, as rapporteur, in Article 44 of the Act of 30 October 2018 known as EGALIM. This section prohibits the import, circulation and sale of products that do not meet our production standards. Our citizens, who are also consumers, have new demands on farmers and products they want to consume. Farmers use plant protection products not for their pleasure, but to protect their production, the cost of which must enable them to compete. If new standards are imposed on farmers, there can be no free and undistorted competition without prohibiting the marketing of products that do not comply scrupulously with these standards. That is what we are going to propose shortly in a European motion for a resolution, which has been worked out in the majority and with representatives of the Republican Group, in particular Julien Dive and Fabrice Brun. Article 44 must really apply at European level and become the inescapable rule of all our international trade negotiations, thanks to the very strict controls that will be put in place. This guarantee is essential for farmers. We need to harmonise our production standards at European level: the recent agreement you have reached, Minister, in the negotiation of the common agricultural policy is fully in line with this requirement. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is in order to ensure the necessary preservation of our agricultural and food sovereignty, and to accompany farmers in the ecological transition without remaining at the stage of incantation that leads nowhere, that the La République en marche group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u36	A speech of truth, Mr. Moreau!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u37	Mrs Sylvie Bouchet Bellecourt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u38	We are about to vote on the draft law on the conditions for placing certain plant protection products on the market in the event of a health hazard to sugar beet, thanks to the success of the Joint Joint Committee, which has resulted in an agreement between the two chambers. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague Julien Dive for his remarkable work on the subject. Of course, the concessions are still too numerous and too important for those who do, but I believe that this agreement is good, because it is reasonable and demanding. Reasonable, because it reminds everyone that, in order to ensure an agro-ecological transition, we must not forget the word "transition". Today, French beetlands account for only 2% of cultivated agricultural land, which means that the bill will not sign the general return of neonicotinoids to our country. It's a fact. Let it be clear, we all agree here to put an end to the use of NNI. We have heard this strong demand from the French. However, putting an end overnight to the use of a product on which a whole part of the better ship industry depends seems to me dangerous. Farmers, who have made this a bitter experience this year as a result of the political decision taken in 2016, know that. The ecology of distrust, which aims to ban everything without worrying about the direct repercussions in the territories, is not the one that the Republicans group intends to defend. We prefer to him the ecology of trust with the professionals concerned. This is necessary, because the trauma of jaundice must not lead our farmers to stop this crop. Yes, the loss of yield is not homogeneous in the French territory. It ranges from 15% to 20%, including unaffected areas, and reaches as much as 60% in some Franciscan territories, in both conventional and biological plots. The risk is great, as more than 45,000 direct jobs, outside of planters, are at risk. I am thinking of the independent sugar factory of Souppes-sur-Loeng, Nangis and so many others in France. Not to hear the present distress of the peasant world would be to sign one of the greatest social plans of agriculture. Let us not be mistaken: to accuse farmers, already in great economic and social difficulty, of knowingly destroying biodiversity is in no way to recognize the agricultural world. Because their profession is also their passion, farmers are the first to be concerned with the preservation of biodiversity in the territories. Unfortunately, political time passes faster than that available to professionals to prepare the soil and reap its dues: I regret it. I had the opportunity to say this during the debates: those who feed us are dying. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to alert you to the social risks that farmers will face in the coming months. The omerta around the agricultural environment remains too important when it comes to dealing with cash flow difficulties. We need to be vigilant in order to quickly identify situations that could become dramatic. In the face of permanent agribashing, the solution found in the bill shows the demand that national representation is making for the sector. Indeed, there is no question of giving him a white-seing: the transition will end in 2023. We expect a powerful and determined acceleration of research and the development of alternatives, so as to offer the better ship industry weapons to carry out its transition. Every effort must be made to ensure that we do not import sugar produced, we do not know where and without respecting the environmental standards that French farmers are asked to comply with. The pressure is now on the shoulders of the farmers: it is up to them alone to step up their efforts to keep the French sugar sector among the most successful in Europe. Requires that the bill establish a supervisory board to advise on possible exemptions. These will be effective by December at the latest, to allow industry time to produce the seeds needed for mass seeding. They will be granted under strict conditions and within a short period of time. You can count on our vigilance: we will follow closely the progress on this subject. [[The rapporteur and the President of the CMP applaud]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u39	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u40	In my turn, I would like to acknowledge the important work that has been done, despite the very limited time available, to enrich the bill and to reach agreement with our fellow senators on a joint committee. I am pleased that the House and the Senate quickly agreed on a common text, proof, if necessary, that the subject is closer than it opposes. In view of the urgency, partisan differences have been overcome. This is a good sign for agriculture, although – I repeat – no one here is in favour of neonicotinoids. We are all sensitive to the collapse of bee colonies, as well as the disastrous effects of these products on water, soil and human health. But I would have hoped that we would all be sensitive to the risk of the betteravier industry disappearing, to the impasse in which betteraviers find themselves because of a political decision they have not taken, and to the risk of replacing French sugar with sugar produced abroad under less so-called environmental and sanitary conditions. It is for these specific reasons that we are asking for the extension of a three-year derogation, permitted by European law, which has recently ended for France. This is the most responsible choice in the current situation: because this decision is accompanied by guarantees aimed at minimizing its impact on biodiversity, because we consider that replacing sugar produced in France from sugar produced in Europe with more toxic products is an ecological nonsense, because this will put an end to an even more catastrophic practice for biodiversity, the use of pyrethroids, these insecticides that destroy all insects present at the time of spraying – especially ladybirds. [[Frédéric Descrozaille and Eric Alauzet applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you would prefer to stay with the ban decided in 2016. But we are already pleased that our country has banned 95% of the use of neonicotinoids in four years, which no other European country has done! Let us rejoice in France's role in this matter since 2016! Especially since, as we have been saying for several weeks, this is only a short-term solution. In the long term, we call on the Government to promote agroecology wherever possible. The real problem is the ecological poverty of the grain plains. At certain times of the year, wild bees and domestic bees no longer have food, as crops are not sufficiently diversified. For domestic bees, this goes still thanks to transhumances, but imagine for wild bees! What we need to work with the Government, whatever group we belong to, is to define solutions to feed bees, because by feeding them, we feed many other insects and restore all biodiversity. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats has always proposed the establishment of boceries and weed bands: they are reservoirs of biodiversity, especially predators of aphids, but also of various flowers for bees. There are many other solutions, such as strengthened support for the beekeeping sector. On all these issues, we have a window of opportunity with the ongoing reform of the CAP. In this capacity, I thank you, Minister, for the work you have done in the European Union. We are moving forward on the environmental dimension of agriculture, and it is up to you. We must work on the diversity of the countryside, on the diversity of the honeycomb resources for bees, on the enhancement of biodiversity, especially since when a bee has nothing to eat, it is much more sensitive to treatments and parasites. Let us therefore consider these three additional years as three years to change the practices of an entire sector, but also as an opportunity to engage farmers in new types of crops. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] As you will understand, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and related democrats will vote on the bill, because we reject the caricatural opposition between good environmentalists and bad polluter farmers, because we have always tried to promote dialogue and mutual understanding and because we are in favour of the evolution of agricultural practices, which, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is more at work than you think!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u41	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u42	Again? He keeps talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u43	He doesn't share!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u44	This morning, we started the discussions by pointing out that this particular day required a little depth and height of view. I admit to being a little hurt by binary oppositions between ecology and production, ecology and economy. We could avoid this kind of trial, especially today. Dear Antoine Herth, we come from the same region; We used our underpants on the benches of the same agricultural high school. How can you imagine for a second that I am not inhabited, as much as you, by the fate of the 25,000 beet growers and the 15,000 workers in the transport and sugar industries? How can you imagine that, Mr. President of the CMP? Let's not detract from the political debate, please: we're not here. Mr Bruno Millienne said, there are not the good and the bad: there are different ways. Allow us to have a debate, with respect for each of the workers of the earth, respecting our common interest – our life capital of biodiversity – instead of anathema. Let's hear what they have to say to each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u45	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u46	Listen to me, for the three minutes I have to convince you; Listen to me tell you that there is a B plan for beet, which does not involve the reintroduction of neonicotinoids. This is an opportunity for a transition to commercially rewarding mentions that distinguish us in the global sugar market. This can be an opportunity to organise this sector according to three levels of solidarity: horizontal solidarity first, thanks to the creation of a producer organisation – there is no such organisation today – in the main producing regions, with a compulsory voluntary contribution – CVO – and the mobilisation of the FNGRA – National Fund for Risk Management in Agriculture – and the FMSE – National Agricultural Fund for Health and Environmental Sharing. Without going into the details, we had all the necessary mechanics and all the time to organize horizontal solidarity between the producers, who did not all suffer in the same way or at the same time. Above all, we had the extraordinary opportunity to recreate vertical solidarity in the sector. Do we have to call the numbers back? The agri-food industry is the major beneficiary of the collapse of sugar prices after the liberalization movement. Let us take one example, that of sodas; industry bought their sugar when the price of beet rose from €40 to €20 per tonne and sugar from €600 to €300 per tonne. Out of 2 million tonnes, this represents a gain of 600 million euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u47	They're sweet!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u48	By simply recovering half, for one, two or three years, thanks to an exceptional tax, we would have had enough to finance the losses estimated at 100 million for producers, 100 million for the agri-food industry and for all stakeholders. We had estimated the losses in the dark years at 300 million; We could finance them only with half the added value of the agri-food industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u49	That was smart!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u50	When we say that, do we despise the workers of the land and the economy of the industry? Mr Minister, are you going to plead for sugar to be included in the reform of the common organisation of the market, which allows us to protect ourselves from the bad winds of global liberalism and at least so-called? Do you accept that with 300 million from an exceptional tax in the sector, a CVO, a producer organisation and a reform of the CMO – a common organisation of the market – we have ample means to initiate the agro-ecological reform that we know and share? It's the passion that talks. If we had time, we could talk about chemical ecology, plant engineering, new generation aphicides, etc. We could speak above all of landscape mosaics, in short, of all the systemic instruments that allow beet, as well as other crops, to enter the 21st century and the markets of the future, and to bring about the prosperity of the social and environmental values and norms of France and Europe. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches]] There was a plan B, we worked on it. You can't despise him and throw him away with a back of your hand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u51	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u52	It is in a very particular context that we conclude our examination of this text, which is the result of the agreement reached by the Joint Joint Committee. It will allow derogations from the use of neonicotinoids for sugar beet. In the face of the many emails that have invaded our emails, containing too many counter-truths, I want to say things again clearly: yes, this text re-authorizes the use of neonicotinoids in seed wrapping for sugar beet for the next three years. Yes, neonicotinoids will only be reauthorized for sugar beet.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u53	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u54	Not on corn or fruit trees, but only for the cultivation of sugar beet and only in seed coating. We welcome that. No, we are absolutely not endangering the health of consumers: it is absolutely false that food sugar would contain neonicotinoids! No, the sacrifice of our sugar sector will not cause the French to stop consuming sugar. And no, by allowing this derogation, neither parliamentarians nor the minister become serial killers of bees and pollinators. Moreover, none of us question the danger of neonicotinoids to biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u55	Yes, that's what you do!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u56	That is why the derogation concerns only one sector, that of a non-melliferous plant. But for the Members of the Group of the European People's Party to act together, one thing is clear: our role will never be to put an economic sector, whatever it may be, in a technical impasse; It will always be necessary to set limits, while introducing the necessary accompaniment. And that's exactly what we're doing here: we're giving a short-term solution to the technical impasse that betteraviers are in, with strong reciprocal commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u57	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u58	And then, let's be honest, what would be the consequences of maintaining the ban on neonicotinoids for sugar beet? A spread of jaundice virus in the fields, planters turning to another production, a dizzying drop in production. Simply put, we would leave the world sugar market to other producers. Which ones? Our European neighbours, which maintain this derogation for beet, or worse, India or South America. Do I need to explain how their production methods and their use of plant protection products are totally unreasonable and significantly more harmful to the environment and the planet? We cannot make ecology and the preservation of biodiversity by being blind to what is happening in the world! What would be the other consequences? The closure of sugar plants, the loss of thousands of jobs in rural areas, a sharp fall in the production of biofuels, the risk of the alfalfa industry, which is so beneficial to the environment and biodiversity. The environmental impact would ultimately be much more harmful! We must fight for ecology and the preservation of biodiversity and water resources in a smart way. But above all, these struggles, we must lead them with farmers and certainly not against them. I see this every day in my department of the Marne: farmers innovate and commit themselves to improving their practices and preserving biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u60	Without biodiversity, there is no agriculture. It is a solution to the emerging climate, environmental, energy and food challenges. Evidence of this, farmers hold and allow us to stand up to the major crisis that we are going through; We owe them so much. Before concluding, I would like to welcome the work of the rapporteur as well as the work of the CMP, which has led to a clear and precise definition of the Supervisory Board responsible for the monitoring and control of research and the development of alternatives to neonicotinoids. With this advice, we will benefit from quarterly monitoring and evaluation of the situation, and will be aware of the progress of the prevention plan proposed by the sector concerned. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thank you once again, Minister, for making courageous decisions for the beavers. With this text, the industry can prepare for the future and regain hope, looking more calmly at the future and preparing the seedlings for the next spring. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes this and will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u61	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u62	Mr Minister, you have found in the Assembly a majority to vote on the provision you are proposing, allowing the Government to derogate for three years from the ban on neonicotinoids; You also found that majority in the Senate, quite easily. That is why in the Joint Joint Committee, Members and Senators have reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u64	I humbly confess to you, minister, as you know. I appreciate your skill; You are in your place at the Ministry of Agriculture. There are no environmental advocates on the one hand and those who would be insensitive to the issue on the other. However, what do you want, over the years I am among the Members who have some principles. As I stated in my explanation of vote on the motion to reject tabled by Mr Potier on behalf of the Socialist and related Group, I am embarrassed by the method. I was scalded by the glyphosate file. Our dear President of the Republic, who does what he can, decreed that by 2021 the glyphosate would be over. I supported him, and supported the then Minister of Agriculture and Food, Stéphane Travert, in the plan to take the path that would lead to a ban on the use of glyphosate in 2021. It's very difficult and it doesn't come down like that, with a slam of fingers. Nevertheless, on the ground, we have to report on our votes. You are asking Members of Parliament and Senators to authorize the Government to derogate from the prohibition by order. I understand that the sugar beet industry and farmers are in a stalemate. However, I would have liked the decision to be taken by parliamentarians. After having learned, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, of the various works carried out by the technical beet institute, by the industrialists and by the professionals of the sector in general, we would have decided each year, in 2020, in 2021, perhaps in 2022 and if necessary in 2023, to allow an additional year to be waived from the ban on the use of these products. Indeed, they are harmful, even if they are coated seeds, and even if the beet only blooms every two years. Why do I mention these questions? Some objections have not been raised, in particular concerning the persistence, i.e. the persistence of residues of neonicotinoids in the soil, which may affect crops after sugar beet, and the persistence of traces in groundwater. When we are sensitive to the environment, which is the case of 99.99% of the Members who are here, we are naturally thinking of beekeeping, which offers a good indicator of the health of biodiversity. I'm referring to domestic bees, because we pay less attention to wild bees, which are solitary. Beekeepers raise bees to produce honey; they explain to us that neonicotinoids are 7,000 times more dangerous than DDT – dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane – that each year bee mortality reaches 30% and honey production has been halved in 25 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u65	Three!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u66	The honey offered to French consumers is 80% imported from Asia and Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u67	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u68	Three or four weeks ago, I called it a not very pretty word in the Chamber, to insist on its poor quality – I still think so. There is a mortality rate of 300,000 hives per year. Minister, because you are an agronomist, because you are an intelligent person, we trust you: I want you to also work on the beekeeping industry to develop a vigorous beekeeper support plan – there is an urgent need. [[Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group. – Minister smiles]] This afternoon, we are two representatives of the IDU and independent group. I will vote against the text, but I understand that MP Grégory Labelle will vote with you to allow the Government to derogate from the ban. It is new, he thinks it is good that the deputies support the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u69	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Thirteen years of parliamentary experience lead me to believe that it is necessary to be more demanding than that with the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u71	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u72	It's going to be hard to do as well as Mr. Benoît! I am a beekeeper's son: the ethics officer of this institution may say that I am in a conflict of interest on the subject. I love bees and what they produce; in my family, we take care of bees. Everything is said, I could stop there and go back to my constituency of the Medoc, but I have too much respect for our democratic debates and for biodiversity to stay there. I do not understand that this House is proposing to go back to a major step forward from the previous quinquennium, I would even say on one of the fundamental advances of the last five years in agroecology. Non-regression is a legal principle, which is at the top of the environmental code. By reintroducing the authorization for the use of neonicotinoids, and hence plant protection products, the Government violates this principle. From the point of view of the legislator, this is not acceptable. Finally, what are we asked to discuss? Undoubtedly, in the lifetime. What is the living? What is life? We decide to protect her or destroy her, but why would we do that? It is established by more than 1000 scientific studies that neonicotinoids cause long-term poisoning; it is proven that they are present in runoff waters and that they pollute our groundwaters; they are shown to have serious effects on wildlife, by multiplying by six the mortality of bee colonies, decimating pollinator populations and being harmful to granivorous birds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that to vote for the reintroduction is to vote against the living. What is the living? It's you, it's me, your parents, your children, your grandchildren, it's the air we breathe – although sometimes it's difficult with a mask – the water we drink, the food we eat. So you would vote against your family, or against yourself. In 2016, during the review of the bill for the reconquest of biodiversity, nature and landscapes, prohibiting the use of neonicotinoids, at the time Secretary of State for Biodiversity, Barbara Pompili, had said well that "biodiversity is essential not only to our quality of life, but now, quite simply, to the very survival of humanity. I think she was right: her sentence always sounds very right. I guess today she wouldn't feel betrayed that we were quoting her here. Then there is the question of why, as a matter of responsibility, make such decisions whose consequences, as we know, will be harmful to life, and for a long time to come. I heard your arguments: the sugar sector would be driven by the size of the losses and many jobs would be at stake. I do not minimise the difficulties or the stakes for the sector. I have discussed this with some colleagues. The cooperative Tereos estimates that the returns of its co-operators have decreased by 12% compared to the 2019-2020 marketing year. We are far from the 50 to 70 per cent that the Government has put forward to justify the reintroduction of neonicotinoids. I also find that you rejected the solution of compensation for farmers a little too quickly. We have already talked about it: funds exist, which could support the industry until research finds substitutes. This is also the proposal defended by our former minister Nicolas Hulot. Reauthorizing neonicotinoids will not protect farmers; I think it is much more important to guarantee them decent remuneration. This was the fight of Stéphane Travert, present here, when he was Minister of Agriculture and Food. And then, let's say frankly: the imbroglio around the glyphosate as it was said earlier, does not leave a good memory. Its prohibition was included in the law, then lifted, postponed to ten years, and then three years. Finally, there is no binding text to stop the use of this herbicide. In this empirical context, who can imagine that the reintroduction of neonicotinoids is only a derogation for a sector? Not a big world, since other sectors are rushing to benefit from derogations too – they are coming, they are there, they are at the door. Finally, and in my view it is very serious, you are presenting us with a text whose Article 2 is very likely to be censored by the Constitutional Council, since it contains a derogation for one sector and therefore creates a breach of equality with respect to the other sectors. If this article, because of its unconstitutionality, disappears, the candidates will no longer even need to push themselves to the portillon, it is enough for them to thank all the defenders of this text for having reintroduced the neonicotinoids for all. I do not like to oppose ecology and economy in the terms of the rapporteur. Nevertheless, we must consider that if we vote on this text, it will make a point for finance, and zero pointed for the living. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] Colleagues, a majority of the Libertés et territoires group, convinced of the need to commit themselves to environmentally friendly practices, will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u73	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u74	We knew, you knew, they knew – as for asbestos. The dangers of asbestos were discovered in 1927, but it was only in 1997 that asbestos was banned in France, seventy years later. They can still be found in schools and in housing. Asbestos is responsible each year for 3000 to 4000 occupational diseases, 100,000 people die every year in the world, between 50,000 and 100,000 deaths will be attributed to asbestos in France by 2025.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u75	A scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u76	We knew, you knew, they knew, but they gave companies licences to kill – like for chlordecone. It was banned in the United States for its dangerousness in 1976. Authorised in France in 1972, it was used until 1992. In the West Indies, a derogation allowed it to be used until 1993. As a result, 90% of the population in Guadeloupe is contaminated with Chlordecone, the soil and water are poisoned for 700 years, and in the West Indies, the prostate cancer rate is the highest in the world. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We knew, you knew, they knew, but they gave companies licences to kill – as for glyphosate. Exposure to glyphosate increases the risk of cancer by 40%. Paul François, a poisoned farmer, has finally won his trial against Monsanto, at the end of a struggle that lasted for years. Emmanuel Macron had promised that he would ban glyphosate three years after his arrival at the Elysée. We had tabled amendments to prohibit it: rejected. You still haven't banned glyphosate. We know, you know, but you give companies licences to kill. For neonicotinoids, even rengain. Already in 2016, Barbara Pompili knew, she knew perfectly the dangers of these pesticides on biodiversity, on the quality of soil, water, on human health and the development of young children's brains. We know, and you know, the persistence of these pesticides in the soil, in the groundwaters, their dispersion on all crops, including on wild plants and flora. We know, and you know, that 80% of European insects have disappeared in 30 years and that our agro-industrial practices are the main cause of this decline. We know, and you know,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u77	You know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u78	... that bee colonies have been decimated – they have decreased by 37% in the European Union in a few years – and that resistance to neonicotinoids is growing more and more. We know, and you know,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u79	You know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u80	...that 85% of our crops are in danger without pollinators, and with them all our food sovereignty. We know, and you know,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u81	You know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u82	...that this re-authorisation will not solve the problem, which it all started in 2017, at the time of the end of sugar quotas in the European Union – sugar prices then fell by 50%. This pesticide will not in any way prevent the closure of sweets, but will mean the worst for beekeepers. As Barbara Pompili said four years ago, we will not be able to say that we did not know. Yes, you know the consequences of passing such a bill, but you support it beak and nails. During his examination, you have constantly insulted the opposition, repainted it with irresponsibleness, made us accept your unconsciousness in the face of the challenges that such reauthorization covers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u83	We never said that! That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u84	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups.– Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We solemnly affirm that if this text is voted on, we will report to the High Court of Justice for deliberate danger to the lives of others. Indeed, to vote in favour of this text is to vote for the widespread poisoning of the population and our ecosystems. For years, we have witnessed the same tragedies, asbestos, glyphosate, chlordecone, and now neonicotinoids. The same reasons are given: more growth, more profits, more margin. This ideology kills; We must put an end to the threat that capitalism poses to our lives. We know, and you know, that we have 400,000 cancers a year. How many cancers will it take to ban these pesticides, how many human tragedies? [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] With this bill, not only are you playing with our lives, but you are giving a suspension to a dead agricultural model that leads us to disaster. The crisis of the Covid-19 revealed the dangers of food globalization and the increased dependence of our agriculture on the world market. A farmer commits suicide every day...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u85	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u86	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u87	[[The rapporteur and Mr Bruno Millienne protested]] ...and a quarter of the farms are likely to disappear in the next five years. However, alternative solutions exist. It is sufficient political will to decide on a bifurcation of our agricultural model. We could create 300,000 jobs in peasant and ecological agriculture. We need to improve the farming profession, which is not limited to machinery or the use of pesticides. Let us impose a moratorium on the artificialization of soil. Let us limit the margins of large-scale distribution to the detriment of small farmers. Let's stop the free trade agreements at all times. In short, let us guarantee our agricultural and food sovereignty, no matter what the cost, even if we have to get out of the European treaties. There are alternatives, we know, you know. But as with asbestos, chlordecone, glyphosate, you prefer to give companies permits to kill by allowing neonicotinoids.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u88	German sugar, Belgian sugar, that's the alternative!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u89	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Elsa Faucillon also applauds]] This is the deadly rhyme of your policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u90	Thank you for your demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u91	You're hatemakers!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u92	On the bill as a whole, in view of the text of the Joint Joint Committee, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u93	The CMP has not changed anything in substance; Only Article 4 comes timidly to point out the absolute need to put an end to unfair competition and imbalances in environmental and health production conditions, and remind some of the content of Article 44 of the EQUALIM Act. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Delphine Batho also applauds]] Our opposition to this text is certainly based on the environmental and health impact of neonicotinoids, but also on the real omerta which prevails over the economic situation of the sugar sector. Environmentally, the harmfulness of neonicotinoids to the environment, pollinators, auxiliary insects and soil life is proven. Hundreds of scientific studies converge and there is no way to seriously challenge them – you do not do it yourself, minister. But with regard to the ecotoxicity of these products, the new knowledge is even more alarming than yesterday: I invite you to read the excellent article by Stéphane Foucart published yesterday in the newspaper Le Monde: it reveals the worrying results of a study to be published in January in the scientific journal Agriculture, Ecosystems &am p; Environment – Agriculture, ecosystems and environment – conducted on the basis of 180 soil samples in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u94	Especially in the Deux-Sèvres!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u95	[[Ms. Delphine Batho applauds]] The imidaclopride, the main used neonicotinoid we are talking about today, is found in the vast majority of soils, not only on conventional cultivated plots, but also on meadows, hedges, and even close plots cultivated in organic farming. These researchers state: "the levels of imidacloprid found in earthworms are staggering," adding: "the concentrations recovered are spectacular." This calls into question the position of the European Food Safety Authority, which considered imidacloprid to be at low risk of bioaccumulation. These researchers add that the level of exposure of earthworms, as well as other organisms essential to the good health of the soil, frequently leads to "high chronic toxicity risk". They find the situation "very worrying, not only for the Lombards themselves, but for the integrity of food chains and for environmental health in general." They added that "for some birds that feed almost exclusively on earthworms at certain times of the year, the concentrations of imidacloprid we find suggest near lethal effects." [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Delphine Batho also applauds]] Dispersion, bioaccumulation, chronic toxicity, cross-contamination by several molecules: these are increasingly alarming knowledge. And we should hide them?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u96	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u97	In these circumstances, do you think it reasonable, Minister, to justify your willingness to reauthorise these products by the sole argument of the general economy of the sugar sector? I would add that the tasks of the Supervisory Board would be limited to research into agronomic alternatives. It is a supervisory board for the strategic and financial policy of the three major sugar groups – Tereos, Cristal Union and German Südzucker – that we need, because we would like to have had, as legislator, an objective assessment of the economic situation of these players – their debt, their strategy, their willingness to maintain employment and support the remuneration of producers. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group – Ms Delphine Batho also applauds]] We would have liked transparency on the choices that have led in the last two years to the abolition of four of the twenty-five sweets in the national territory. We would have liked to have been able to discuss here the precise economic impact, territory by territory and according to the practices, the losses of yield observed. We would have liked to discuss the tools and means of economic compensation by the prices paid to producers to maintain the cultivated areas. We would have liked to know the amount of profits made by the agri-food industry by taking advantage of the fall in sugar prices. We would have liked to discuss a public risk and hazard management regime for producers, as we propose. We would have liked to discuss the desirability of restoring European regulation of production volumes. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Delphine Batho and Mr Philippe Naillet also applaud]] We would have liked all this, but of these structural problems which are the heart of the subject, you do not speak. I tell you again, Minister: there is no worse ecological and health signal than the one you are going to give today. There is no worse economic policy than that which does not want to face the real problems faced by the sugar sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u98	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u99	Alea jacta is!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u100	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 151 Number of votes cast 148 Absolute majority 75 For adoption 103 Against 45
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u101	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u102	This morning, the Assembly began its examination of appropriations relating to agriculture, food, forestry and rural affairs (No 3399, Annexes 4 and 5; No 3100, Volume III), concluding Amendment No 1450.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u103	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1450.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u104	The debate was widely opened this morning on the centres of forest ownership; It was initiated on the issue of the National Forestry Board – NFB. The observation is widely shared: in order to solve the challenges faced by the wood industry, faced with distortions of competition as a result of globalisation, to restore the biodiversity capital of the French forest, for so many other reasons, we need planning, research, innovation and cooperation. A tool has been created for this: the National Forestry Board. It can and must, I think deeply, reform itself to try to be more efficient in its missions. But it is certain that this reform cannot go through its weakening, neither through the prospect of a cut-off sale of a public forest estate, nor through the prospect of an intellectual renunciation of the state. We need a powerful NFB to organize, at the time of the anthropocene, the place of the tree in society, the place of the forest in our territory, and the place of the wood in our economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u105	Mrs Anne-Laure Cattelot, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u106	I will defend my Amendment No 1665, which is in the same spirit. I would like to point out at the outset that I am against Amendments Nos 1450, 1708 and 1703, all of which concern the NFB. To refer to the NFB's agents is first and foremost to our territories, our land. I myself have been entrusted by the Government with a mission on adaptation of forests to climate change; So I met our NFB agents in Haute-Marne, in the Vosges, in the Landes de Gascogne or in my region, the Hauts-de-France. These territorial forest technicians, these heads of territorial units, are extremely dedicated to the cause of the forest, the preservation of the environment, the reception of the public and of course the production of wood. While they are the first to intervene in the communal and state forests affected by climate change, the health crises that affect the spruce, the ash and so many others we talked about this morning, we must make sure that they are able to manage the unprecedented increase in activity that they will have to deal with. Mr Minister, you have made an extraordinary effort on this subject, which I believe we have mentioned at length this morning for the first time in a long time. You are the first to propose a real Marshall plan for forest and wood, with unprecedented means, especially on the forest upstream, with 200 million euros invested. But to implement it, there is a need for humans. Ten years ago, in the forest I love, Mormal's, the numbers were almost twice as high as they are today. I am not here to say whether the evolution over the decade is appropriate or not; But I am telling you that by the end of 2020, and when we know the challenges the NFB faces, it seems to me appropriate to remove the decrease of ninety-five full-time equivalents proposed in the finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u108	In addition, the citizen climate convention has been affected by the great qualities of forest and wood, as a tool and as a material capable of storing carbon. They asked us to sustain the NFB, and even increase its workforce. Defending the NFB is not just a forest business; Wood processors, first and foremost sawmills, need a strong NFB. While it manages 25% of the forests, 40% of the total wood is placed on the market and 92% of this volume is transformed by our wood manufacturers in France. If you needed a final argument to feel the crucial link between the health of our forests, our public foresters and the wood industry, know that 70% of the wood contracting in France is carried out with the NFB; and when a sawmill wants to invest in its production tool, which we want and which we defended this morning with the minister, it is well seen by its bank to present a balance sheet with 50% of contractualized wood. The NFB is therefore the number one partner in our wood industry, which needs to be revived in order to create twice as many jobs in order to reach the level of Germany in this field. That is why, at this first reading, I invite all of you to support my Amendment No. 1665, which seeks to cancel the abolition of ninety-five positions within the NFB. I highly respect the Minister's commitment, held by government solidarity and a serious management of public accounts, and I know his constraints; But with this vote we would send a signal to the Government, to all those who deal with our finances: we are affected, concerned, by these abolitions of posts. In my opinion, the savings made are a straw in the nation's budget – 3.7 million euros. Minister, let me simply and humbly, as a Member of Parliament, with those who will vote for this amendment, set foot in the door and open the dialogue with a view to perhaps a second reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u110	On Amendment No 1703 I have received a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. On Amendment No 1665, I am seized by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left of France and by the Group of the European People's Party of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of a request for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture and Food has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u111	I will give the same opinion on the four amendments concerning the NFB: request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice. The NFB, we all agree, is a very valuable asset for our country; he faces many challenges, human challenges, the meaning challenges of his mission, the challenges of means of execution. Madam Special Rapporteur, thank you for insisting on the increase in the NFB's resources in this budget. The recovery plan, in an absolutely new way, puts a very strong emphasis on the forest, with 150 million euros for restocking and 22 million for the LiDAR technology – light detection and ranking – which the NFB calls for, like the entire profession. Beyond these measures, the question of human resources raises, I hear, many questions on your part. We referred this morning to the decision on the employment ceiling, and I will not go back to that. The difficulty is that the NFB's objective and performance contract is under discussion and that it is this COP, which is obviously developed with the union organizations, that must give visibility to the means for the period 2021 to 2025. It is in this context that all the issues you have mentioned must be taken into account. I strongly reiterate that France has a huge chance of having an operator such as the NFB, with its expertise, its agents and its expertise. The minister I am is a great supporter of the entire profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u112	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1708.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u113	Once it is not customary, I fully agree with the remarks just made by the Special Rapporteur, and I in turn stress the importance of the NFB. Minister, you are still not answering the question: how can an ambitious forestry policy be pursued without the corresponding human resources, without the know-how and expertise of the men and women working in the forest? The NFB has lost one in two positions since the 1960s, and it would be irresponsible to continue this bleed in the workforce. The Finance Bill for 2020 provided for the abolition of 175 FTEs; However, 365 FTEs have been removed. The question of the NFB's ability to act is raised. I give you a single indicator, in my opinion significant, when, more than ever, we have to observe the forest and need the very fine expertise of these agents of the state. Today, each agent has an average of 1,700 hectares, compared to 800 hectares 20 years ago. According to the departments, this figure ranges from 900 to 4000 hectares per agent.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u115	Take note of what this means, very concretely, for the knowledge of the agents, for the observation of the forest, for the development of the islands of experimentation, for the fight against decay or the scolytes, in short, for all the stakes we have mentioned concerning the forest. Today there is enormous suffering at the NFB. Let's stop planing the force. On the contrary, we need a public forestry service that is much stronger than it is today. A minimum of 95 FTEs in the finance bill must be removed. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] As the Special Rapporteur pointed out, the citizens' climate convention called for a strengthening of the public forestry service. Ms Pompili, Minister of Environmental Transition, visited the Fontainebleau State Forest for her first visit. A decision must now be made that shows NFB officers that they are recognized for their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u116	The committee and the Government gave an unfavorable opinion on the amendment. Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u117	Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President. I agreed not to intervene this morning so I could do it this afternoon. The crisis that we are going through has shown that the lack of human resources leads to disaster. We see it for the health squads and for the hospital. Of course, human means are not enough, as we know; There is also the question of material means and the conduct of change. We have often talked about trust, but we still need to have the means to build it. In this case, the NFB must be able to do prevention and control. This is done not with words and speeches, or with the operation of the Holy Spirit, but with human means, on the ground. The NFB should be given the means to achieve its objectives in a concrete way, not in a theoretical and off-ground manner. The Liberties and Territories Group therefore also stresses the importance of the amendments tabled to this effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u118	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u119	I, in turn, stress the need to strengthen the NFB's resources. Contrary to what you said, Minister, the NFB is weakening year after year, not only since 2017: as draftsman of the Economic Affairs Committee's opinion on forest credits, I have pointed every year, for five years, to the depletion of the NFB's resources, which is very serious. Those living in forested areas know how useful NFB officers are in managing our federal and sectional forests. Let's put an end to the continuing abolition of posts. The result is that one out of every two forest houses is now empty; There is no longer the same proximity. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] A long-term vision of forest management is essential. If we persist in obsession with profitability, short-term, immediate performance, we will have a terrible blow to the forest and to what it represents for our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u120	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 1703.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u121	It is part of the continuity of the previous one; It is also an amendment by my colleague, Mr Panot. I would also like to congratulate her on her work, in which, of course, the whole of our group recognizes itself. There are the words – the fine words about defending the forest, the commitments made to the citizen climate convention – and there are the facts. I repeat, the citizens' convention for the climate has deemed it imperative to perpetuate the existence of the NFB and to increase its number, with which the President of the Republic has fully agreed. Similarly, Ms. Cattelot stated in her report that there was a need for "a consolidated budget and staffing" for the NFB; That's his recommendation number 10. After all these words, you propose to delete 95 FTEs at the NFB, knowing that 335 FTEs have been removed in recent years. Our proposal is clear: it is about creating the conditions for the recruitment of 160 FTEs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u122	That's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u123	In order to comply with the conditions for the financial admissibility of the amendments laid down in Article 40 of the Constitution, we propose to transfer EUR 6.3 million from one programme to another. The objective is to create concrete conditions for the preservation of the NFB. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I would point out that this request corresponds to the demands of the public/private trade union of NFB staff. Let's listen to these people, listen to the forest, defend it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u124	The committee and the Government gave an unfavorable opinion on the amendment. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u125	Through these various amendments, Minister, all the territories are addressed to you. You have felt it well, there is a convergence of views between Members who sit on different benches in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u126	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u127	...to defend the forest heritage. For this, admit it, it takes men and means. It is time to put the terms of the problem in this budgetary debate, which deals precisely with appropriations and means. Through Mrs Cattelot's report, which is a stone to a building we need to build, we feel that we are approaching a positive turn for the forestry issue in our country. We all feel that, convergingly, we can nurture a new ambition for our forests. We generally agree that the forest will contribute to the transitions, including the reduction of the carbon footprint. The forest will produce the wood we need for the industry, both upstream and downstream. The core of the reactor is our forest heritage. However, it is abused, by the attacks of insects – the scolytes –, by global warming, by drought. Our forest is in great difficulty. To be able to save her, I said, it takes men and means. That is the sine qua non, minister. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, LT, FI and GDR groups]] Forest communes work in great intelligence with the NFB. Private foresters recognize the qualities of the NFB, whose agents are in love with their profession. It is up to you to appreciate whether Mrs Panot's amendment or Mrs Cattelot's amendment should be retained. For our part, we support the approach that has been taken and we will vote for Mrs Cattelot's amendment. We believe that a positive signal should be given in this budgetary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u128	These are strong arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u129	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u130	I want to get out of this debate, a little too "black or white" to my liking. The NFB is indeed experiencing a very serious crisis, but the problem is not just a lack of staff, although it is part of the equation. For more than ten years, the social climate has been very degraded. At the beginning of the year, a new Director General, on whose appointment we voted, took up his duties.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u131	And this one's a good one!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u132	We have voted for an additional 200 million credits for the forest, part of which will go back, by definition, to the NFB, to which the corresponding missions will be entrusted. I don't remember any other measure of this magnitude! And it seems to me very reductive to oppose one aspect of the debate to another. I would like to draw attention to the NFB's difficulties. If one digs a bit, one realizes that the NFB is in a phase of questioning its missions. These have evolved: we have moved from an NFB that was to produce wood to an NFB that has to work on biodiversity and carbon storage, by engaging in a dialogue with communities – which is not as good as Mr.Viry just said. These missions need to be developed and a different approach to personnel management should be taken. Personally, I will not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u133	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1703.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u134	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 105 Number of votes cast 104 Absolute majority 53 For adoption 20 Against 84
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u135	Amendment No 1665 was defended by the Special Rapporteur. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u136	I'm asking for it to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u137	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u138	She's already spoken!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u139	I am responding to what Mr Turquois said. With the current workforce, the NFB is not in a position to carry out its statutory tasks. We must assume that the forest is not only a field of wood, although, of course, there is a recovery of wood. I have worked a lot on the issue of eco-construction, and we have considerable progress to make in the construction of wood, earth and straw. On the other hand, when softwood lumber is used, carbon continues to be stored, which is interesting from a carbon balance point of view. In any case, if we do not guarantee the necessary number of agents, we will not have a multifunctional forest, given the expertise required. Previously, officers took classes to the forest to show the children what was going on there. Now they don't have time to do it anymore. There are many issues at stake: public acceptance, the question of biodiversity, the huge challenge of diseases – it's the same in agriculture: if you raise 5000 pigs in a small building, diseases are necessarily spreading – the diversification of forests, their ageing, the choice of species, the implantation of the islets of experimentation. We absolutely need all of this!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u140	But why is she yelling?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u141	We must decide the forestry we want, the future we want for the French forests. If we want forests to be a common good, which the Government has repeatedly stated, and which I share, then we need a strong public forestry service. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We are told that the problems faced by many sectors, such as the hospital, are, in fact, linked to their management and management. But that's not true! It takes a sufficient number of people to make them work. If this were the case at the NFB, forest officers would look after smaller areas and could better know and accompany the forest. We would emerge from an approach where, for budgetary reasons, we are constantly reducing their numbers, while at the time of the ecological emergency the stakes are immense.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u142	Panot-Cattelot, same fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u143	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u144	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group. – Mr. Jean-Charles Larsonneur also applauds]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for the amendment by our colleague Anne-Laure Cattelot. I would like to commend the work she has done: if, like her, we had met with the relevant actors, particularly the NFB agents, I am sure that we would all have reached the same conclusions and that we would all have proposed that the Agency's resources be retained as it stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u146	Much has been said about the importance of the NFB. The purpose of this amendment is not to strengthen its resources, but to stop weakening them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u147	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u148	Good forest management requires expertise; NFB officers own it and it's a valuable thing. This expertise is acquired over time. You can't just hand over a piece of forest to anyone, thinking they'll be able to do everything right away. The forest is alive. If you love him as you say – and I know you are sincere – stop cutting off branches or roots. We need well-managed forests, where trees are cut at the right time and not under the pressure of short-term profitability, which sometimes leads to the cutting of 80-year-old oaks instead of waiting for them to be 100 or 120 years old.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u149	Please conclude, Mr. Dufrègne.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u150	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] So let's take a good look at the choice we're about to make.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u151	Mr. Stéphane Travert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u152	Everyone here agrees that Anne-Laure Cattelot has done an excellent job on the wood industry. It allows us to anticipate a number of challenges that the sector and the NFB will face over the coming months and years. However, the issues related to the NFB are not limited to a staffing issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u153	It ends up counting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u154	In this respect, the arguments raised earlier by Nicolas Turquois are entirely admissible. It is worth recalling the serious crisis the Office has experienced with regard to social dialogue. I will also stress the commitments made by the Minister under the recovery plan: EUR 200 million will be dedicated to reforestation of forests, to the endowment fund to protect forests, to the support of the timber and seed and plant sectors, and to the development, by IGN – the National Institute for Geographic and Forest Information – of the coverage of the territory by LIDAR technology. And to these funds is added the increase, which we are currently discussing in the framework of the PLF for 2021, of appropriations relating to forestry policy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u155	With less staff?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u156	... which takes into account the NFB's objective and performance contract. We therefore respond, in a way, to the requirement that the NFB work in a better spirit. And we are giving ourselves the means to develop the policies that we want to pursue. On this amendment, we will therefore follow the opinion of the Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u157	It costs only 3.7 million euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u158	It's not very pretty...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u159	Mr Benoit Simian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u160	I would also like to welcome Anne-Laure Cattelot's excellent report. For having shared with her for more than two years the function of Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance on transport issues, I know her seriousness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u161	We don't care!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u162	In this regard, I am surprised by the Minister's response. Indeed, in the internal publication of her organization, the president of the South West Forestry Union wrote: "We can only congratulate ourselves on the quality of the exchanges with MP Cattelot and very much hope that her report will take on the shared findings. This is excellent: the Government is sending the deputy Cattelot to the field, who then defends her recommendations and nails, but it is not followed! This morning, when it requested more funding for forest research, it was not followed either.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u163	No, but stop with that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u164	[[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] I will not enter a battle of figures with respect to FTEs, but the NFB is in abeyance in this matter: it has grown from 15,000 agents in the 1980s to 7,700 today. The amendment merely calls for the maintenance of its staff. It's not the sea to drink!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u165	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1665.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u166	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 97 Number of votes cast 97 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 52 Against 45
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u167	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1451.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u168	It aims to create an agro-ecological transition fund that would be entrusted to the cooperative world – the proposal emanates from the Coop de France trade union. The cooperative world accounts for 40% of the agri-food sector. It is more than one in two farmers who have now decided to join the social economy movement, which operates on the principle of "one man, one voice". The cooperative tool is an element of power for our territories, which could be described as civic or moral. And while it obviously remains perfectable and unfinished, this tool is also a fundamental asset for us in the economy of tomorrow, in the ecological transition and in our international relations. Thus, while the cooperative movement suffers from food and agricultural crises and is experiencing loss of revenue and tensions with the rest of the agri-food sector, it is strong to be a craftsman of the agro-ecological transition. The creation of a fund for which he would be responsible and intended to carry out this transition therefore seems to me to be an excellent idea and a much more effective lever than any other mechanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u169	Mr Hervé Pellois, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u170	We have spoken enough this morning about the exceptional credits that agriculture will receive this year under the recovery plan. Nearly EUR 250 million will be spent on the agro-ecological transition, which is much more than the 150 million foreseen by the amendment. It is therefore fully satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u172	I'll have the same opinion, Mr. President. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I am struck by the obvious absence, in these debates and on social networks, of a middle class. For example, your colleague Simian, before leaving the Chamber, just claimed that the Government had opposed any investment in the forest this morning. But, in memory of a parliamentarian, has there been, for twenty-five or thirty years, a minister of agriculture who has fought for him to be invested so much money – 200 million euros – in the French forest? I make this point because following the rejection this morning of Mr. Potier's amendments, foundations and NGOs tweeted that the Government and the presidential majority were refusing any assistance to communities for collective restoration. It's not you that I'm targeting, Mr. Potier, but the actions of some organizations on networks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u173	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's kind of like when you're lying about...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u174	...or those of Members like you, Mr. Corbière, who will never agree to recognize the work already done. I tell you sincerely, this is not my conception of democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u175	But who do you think you are?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u176	With regard to food aid, which government has already allocated EUR 50 million to canteens, EUR 80 million to territorial food projects, EUR 30 million to support solidarity grocery stores, in addition to everything the Ministry of Solidarity and Health is doing in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u177	And 10 billion for Amazon!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u178	And yet we find ourselves again and again faced with people who, like you, called...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u179	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u180	He lost! He lost!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u181	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] ... and claim that all this is insufficient, when they do not accuse us, like some on social networks, of abandoning the sector! It's not worthy! Let's recognize what's done and let's stop vilifying each other!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u182	He has lost and cannot hide his disappointment...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u183	Mr. Corbière, please calm down.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u184	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] No! He said we're not worthy! He's a bad loser!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u185	We lose every day, and we don't make so many stories!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u186	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 1707. And you will see, Mr Corbière, that your colleague will appreciate being able to express himself calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u187	That wasn't the case earlier!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u188	The amendment seeks to challenge the Government on a subject which it is well aware of and which we consider very serious, that of pollution related to phosphate and nitrogen fertilizers. In September 2015, despite numerous warnings, France was condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to comply with the Nitrates Directive, which accounts for 70% of manure application and the massive use of nitrogen fertilizers by farmers. While this situation is known, it remains alarming. Due to the low closure of the phosphorus cycle and its dispersion in the aquatic environment, it causes eutrophication, with the development of green algae and cyanobacteria, i.e. these blue algae sometimes lethal to animals and dangerous to humans. In addition, the exploitation of phosphorus, which is essentially a mining resource, is a serious problem. It is a major source of pollution of the water tables and of all the rivers in France; 70% of the national territory is now affected. It is therefore appropriate, in the name of the polluter pays principle, to introduce a tax on phosphate and nitrogen fertilizers intended for farmers. Our proposal is realistic given the available data: thanks to the work of technicians who carry out soil studies conscientiously, we know precisely the quantities of nitrogen and phosphorus found there. We believe it is urgent to tackle this pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u190	I do not think you are in the truth when you say that the public authorities are doing nothing against excessive use of fertilizer. I also believe, whatever you think, that farmers are doing what is necessary to limit their consumption in this area. The MAECs – agri-environmental and climate measures –, aid for organic farming and support for the purchase of innovative equipment all contribute to making fertilizer application more environmentally friendly. On the other hand, your suggestion to introduce a tax on nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers would indeed merit a real debate. The time is not right to hold it, but perhaps it can take place when the bill to translate the work of the civic climate convention comes into discussion? With this in mind, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u191	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u192	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u193	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u194	I did not say that nothing was being done against these pollutions, Mr Special Rapporteur, but that their absolutely catastrophic level required much more. I recently went to the Poitevin Marais, where I was told that a cow was mysteriously dead for drinking water that is highly suspected of being polluted by cyanobacteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u195	You really say anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u196	The stakes are therefore very important and, for having discussed them with Republican colleagues, I can tell you that France is not the only group that is concerned with this issue. I would add, Mr Special Rapporteur – I am speaking to you, because you are the only one who answered me – that countries have preceded us in the way I propose. We have tabled such an amendment for several years now and we are always told that this is not the time to introduce a tax on phosphate and nitrogen fertilizers. It already exists in Denmark and the Netherlands, where it amounts respectively to 70 and 35 cents of euro per kilogram. It is therefore possible to create it in France. It is imperative that we do so if we are to protect our water resources, whose sustainability, as you know, is at great risk. We need this protection based on the principle of the polluter pays principle in our law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u197	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 1696.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u198	This morning we referred to the health and environmental risks associated with neonicotinoids. We need to accelerate research and foster innovation if we are to enable farmers to make a successful transition to a new mode of production. This will be very difficult without additional appropriations. That is why the amendment seeks to increase the appropriations under programme 149 "Competitiveness and sustainability of agriculture, agri-food and forestry, fisheries and aquaculture".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u199	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u200	ACTA – Association for Agricultural Technical Coordination –, APCA – Permanent Assembly of Chambers of Agriculture – and INRAE – National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment – are focused on these issues, to which an important part of our research is therefore already devoted. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u201	I have before me two amendments, Nos 424 and 425, which can be presented together. Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u202	We need to speed up the search to be able to turn our backs on plant protection products. You say that the appropriations exist, Mr Special Rapporteur; It's true, but everyone can admit that they're insufficient. Amendment No 424 by my colleague Julien Dive proposes to mobilise an additional EUR 10 million – a very small amount in relation to the state budget – to enable our farms to adopt new production models. Mr Special Rapporteur, Mr Minister, show your willingness to promote the ecological transition in a practical and pragmatic way!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u203	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u204	Glyphosate is not the only plant protection product that poses a problem, but it is certainly the most media--which is why it is mentioned in the summary. As part of the recovery plan, significant amounts are spent on the future organic fund, on the support components of our agriculture, notably the MFA and aid to organic farmers, and on the reduction of the use of plant protection products. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u206	The subject is very important. In the coming days or weeks – depending on the constraints of the crisis we are experiencing – the minister of the ecological transition and I will take stock of glyphosate by indicating what remains to be done to find alternative solutions where they are needed. As you have seen, ANSES, the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health, has already published new marketing authorisations to significantly reduce the use of glyphosate and, where technical and economic alternatives exist, to stop the use of this product. One of the conclusions of the debate that we still have at the beginning of this afternoon is that we need to place even more emphasis on research. I am just going to announce the mobilisation of an additional €7 or €8 million for research on glyphosate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u208	This is precisely what Amendment No 425 calls for. The problem with the latter is that it tends to take the money from the 215 programme "Direction and management of agricultural policies", while I intend to redeploy funds for certain research programmes which depend not only on the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, but also on higher education, research and innovation. I therefore call for the two amendments to be withdrawn and, of course, remain at your disposal to clarify what I intend to do to support research on glyphosate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u209	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u210	I shall refer this to Mr Dive, the main author of this amendment, of which I am only a co-signatory. But we are in a democratic forum and I believe in you, Minister. If necessary, we will return to second reading on the need to speed up research and on ways to help farmers move from one production model to another at low cost. But in the immediate future, I withdraw the two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u211	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 1250 and 1459. On these amendments, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1250.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u212	I will allow Mr Potier to present his proposal, which was accepted in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u213	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1459.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u214	I have already mentioned at length the Ecophyto plan, which everyone admits is broken. It is not a matter of trying anyone, but of knowing whether, given the episodes we have known about neonicotinoids and glyphosate, we do not need to adopt a more powerful device in this matter. I fear that, if our recourse to the Council of State does not succeed, the leverage of the CEPP, the certificates of savings in plant protection products, will not be abandoned, which I would deeply regret. Among the dozens of measures that everyone agrees would solve the current problems is the DEPHY farm system – demonstration, experimentation and production of references on plant protection efficiency systems – which is a living laboratory of experimentation. In fact, when I was in charge of the Ecophyto plan, I couldn't make a move without someone telling me about a DEPHY farm whose practice went far beyond what I described. This means that it really allows for a change from the bottom, within the farms itself, in different ecosystems. We had raised the number of farms concerned from 2000 to 3000 and our dream was to make the APCA, the permanent assembly of chambers of agriculture, the vector of a development allowing to reach the 30,000 farms. With a coefficient of seven corresponding to that of the 1960s, it could be imagined that 200000 farmers would be brought to agroecology. This is what we are proposing to start with this amendment, at a modest budget cost, which was adopted in the Committee on Finance. I hope, Minister, that you will support what would be a sign in favour of strengthening the Ecophyto plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u215	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u216	As I said this morning, I believe deeply in the DEPHY system, which does not concern research as much as its extension. One of the major challenges facing public policy is the ability to disseminate research evidence. The Ecophyto plan has already been allocated €13 million. But you have all the data and can judge the opportunity to transfer credits from one program to another. If national representation, like the Committee on Finance, considers it useful to spend EUR 450 000 on the financing of this specific project, I will rely on its wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u217	Mr Jean-Bernard Sempastous, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u218	I would point out that last year the Committee on Economic Affairs gave an opinion in favour of the adoption of a similar amendment by Mr Potier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u219	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1250 and 1459.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u220	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 66 Number of votes cast 59 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 57 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u221	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1449.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u222	Thank you for your support, Mr Minister, rapporteurs. Minister, during the review of the appropriations for the "Relaunch Plan" mission, we were unable to discuss in your presence the problems posed by the use of water in agriculture. This amendment by the Socialist and Related Group is a warning – addressed to all of us, because it is not a question of giving lessons. If we do not want to see again the same horrors as for renewable energies, i.e. quarrels, legal remedies, disregard for the realities of the agricultural world, and even agri-bashing, a dialogue must be established. I can testify to this for having made a tour of the communes during the drought: the mayors, the peasant world, all the citizens are sensitive to this problem. About the hilly reserves, the people in my constituency told me this summer that they didn't understand anything about it anymore: is that right? Is that wrong? Minister, can you commit yourself to putting science and reason in the water cycle discussions? Is it possible to engage in a democratic debate of quality on this subject in order to enable the territories to take decisions, in conscience, that reconcile us rather than oppose us? The point is not that one lobby wins against the other. Like you, I hate caricatures and all excesses in public life. On this sensitive issue, which is becoming increasingly important, let us not start the same debates as on pesticides or renewable energy: let us strive for territorial and citizen policies that reconcile us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u223	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u224	We have already discussed some of these issues this morning. The ASAP law, or law to speed up and simplify public action, will hopefully provide some facilities in this area. I am certainly in favour of working on these issues, but I do not see the point of allocating EUR 100 000 in appropriations as proposed in the amendment. I therefore invite you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u225	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u226	[[Mr. Michel Lauzzana applauds]] Many of us in this House share this concern. I am among those who consider that, until proven otherwise, agriculture needs water. To the preachers who try to make us believe that she could do without it, I answer that I ask only to see, but I doubt the result. However, we need to improve water management. Our country has been a pioneer in this area – I am thinking of the Société du Canal de Provence, the Compagnie Bas-Rhône Languedoc and all the developments already made in this area. However, the effects of climate change are increasing without infrastructure monitoring. And at the very moment when water retention should have been created in more numbers, the societal debate became more complicated. I was able to see the immense difficulties facing the Puy-de-Dôme, where I went with President Chassaigne – the plain of Limagne had not experienced such a severe drought in decades. To answer this question, I am a fierce advocate for the creation of new restraints, either individual or collective. But we must proceed with a method, and this begins with a necessary consultation. The conflicts of use of water are old as the world, they were born when man became sedentary. That is, how complicated it is to solve them and to face them with great serenity. This is the objective of devices such as land-use projects for water management, GWPs. If there is a need for concerted action, it must not last too long, or else we cannot land. From this point of view, I welcome the progress of the ASAP Act. [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Finally – and I also say this with great serenity – the honour of the political debate is to recognize that once the consultation has been completed, we must move forward. I see, in the Deux-Sèvres for example, political leaders demonstrating against projects that have been the subject of all possible consultations and that everyone has signed, apart from a few, who in all ways would never have agreed and that these projects are in conformity with all the regulations in force. I am sorry that some people prefer to speak out rather than get positive progress through consultation and simplification.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u227	We still have the right to protest in this country! Under the fire of the LBDs, it's true...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u228	Before giving the floor to Mr Potier in support of Amendment No 1456, I would point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are far from over this mission and that the Assembly will still have to examine today the appropriations for the missions "Defence" and "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation". I invite you, of course, to submit all your amendments and to defend them as much as you wish, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure but in a concise manner...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u229	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u230	... so that we can examine with the same seriousness and rigour all the appropriations we have to discuss today. Mr Potier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u231	I will defend this appeal amendment in a concise manner, Mr President, even if it is a subject that I am passionate about and on which I could speak for hours: the question of methanization. Its interest is not debated as part of the energy mix and because of its complementarity with livestock farming and livestock farming. What is at stake here is a certain drift which has meant that in recent years this technology has been decoupled from livestock farming, when it does not harm it. Evidence of this is growing in both western and eastern France, whether it is farmers who express their concerns or farmers who raise the issue of the agronomic quality of the digestat and fear that what is happening in Germany will happen in our territories. Even yesterday, the director of the water agency drew my attention to the rise in nitrate levels observed everywhere where these methanizers were poorly implanted and poorly managed. There is also a tariff drift. As for state control – I have written to you on this subject, and to your colleague Barbara Pompili – it is either non-existent or totally inoperative, completely beside the realities. So there is good and bad methanization. It is as urgent to promote good methanization, backed up by livestock, which contributes to the energy mix and strengthens polyculture - livestock farming, as it is to put an end to the bad, which destroys markets such as soil, in the short and long term, down from the reconciliation of the economy and ecology which, I am convinced, you call for your wishes as we all do. Yes or no, are the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Ecological Transition able to resist the many lobbies – I am thinking of GRDF, to whom the law imposes objectives in this field and who sometimes reaches them at any price – and to show common sense in the implementation of true methanization?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u233	I fully agree with what you are saying, Mr Potier, but I still ask you to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u235	I would agree with the rapporteur. A question to the Government had given me the opportunity to respond to that question. It must first of all be said that methanization is in many respects in many respects and that it must not be in jeopardy because of certain drifts. It is of great interest to many territories and many farmers. Many more methanization projects were launched than hoped a few years ago, and this dynamic needs to be supported. But as in all, we must know how to find the right balance: one can thus wonder whether it is justified to grow maize entirely intended for methanizers. That is why the use of this technique is firmly framed and it is in this sense that we need to move forward. Yes to methanization, but within the limits that we must assign to it. From this point of view, the report by your colleague Jean-Luc Fugit on the role of agriculture in energy production provides some answers and I am very much in favour of us working on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u236	[[Smile]] We need to read our reports, Mr. Potier!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u237	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1445.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u238	This amendment, Minister, is the occasion for an inquiry that I was unable to make in the context of the review of the credits of the recovery plan – even if I was there Monday until late in the night – because I did not have an interlocutor who can answer me about the "Plant Protein" plan. This is, therefore, again an appeal amendment. I invite you to read the conclusions of the absolutely remarkable report by IDDRI and I4CE which I have sent you in the run-up to this debate. It confirms the usefulness of doubling the area of crops, which is your objective under the "Plant proteins" plan, to which the recovery plan devotes a budget of EUR 100 million. This is a first step; There will be more in the CAP. We can also imagine a strengthening of these crops through a recoupling or within the framework of ecosystems. What this report tells us is that it is not enough to launch a policy of supporting plant proteins: we must also ensure that it is implemented through the development of varieties adapted to soil diversity. It is essential to ensure that these crops are integrated into ecosystems; "organic agriculture" and "high environmental value" labelling could play an important role in this regard. Local ecosystems are needed that allow territorialization. Finally, we must promote the consumption of vegetable proteins, both for the health of the earth and for the health of men. The deployment of these crops must be carried out in cooperation with the rather virtuous sector, with the territories and the plurality of actors, including ONVAR, national agricultural and rural bodies, which could play a very important role in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u239	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u240	Thank you for opening this discussion, although we may have to close it. As an agronomist, I am of course also in favour of this diversification of crops, or even their mixing. There are many techniques that we have lost in recent decades and that we need to reinvent. I therefore agree to discuss this, but I do not agree with this amendment, given the large sums already put on the table for the next two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u241	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u242	Yes, a thousand times yes to support the Plant Protein Plan. You know my commitment on this subject: a recent publication of the sector even speaks of a crusade to qualify the action of my ministry and myself to promote these cultures. Without going into detail, I would like to point out that the recovery plan devotes EUR 100 million to this, in addition to the aid coupled with increases in areas that we have managed to obtain under the CAP. If I'm so attached to it, it's a matter of sovereignty. For fifty years, we have been importing American and South American plant proteins: this cannot last. I would like to take this opportunity to answer a question you did not ask directly: given their importance, the cooperatives for the use of agricultural equipment, CUMA, will be eligible for the various schemes provided for in the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u243	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u244	The amendment concerns all territorial tools, such as CUMAs, which promote crop diversification. From this point of view, the Plant Protein Plan will play an important role. I would also like to draw your attention to the issue of meslins and meslin sorting systems, which are a very important way forward. They can only be territorialized and build on local groupings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u245	On Amendments Nos 1698 and 1697, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1698.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u246	A few years ago, I launched in Amiens, with the Goodyears, Frédéric Lordon and company a demonstration called "The Beet Awakening", whose mascot was a giant beet called Çasuffix: that is, my attachment to this plant. The origin of this culture does not seem to have been mentioned in the course of the long hours of debate which it has given rise to, I allow myself a small historical reminder. Under Napoleon, France was deprived, because of the British blockade, of coffee, cotton and especially of sugar. The agronomists then proposed to Napoleon to start the cultivation of this plant from which some sugar was extracted in the Middle Ages. This is how a sugar industry with no slaves was born at my home in Picardia. This is proof that coercion can be creative, for agriculture as well as for writing. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I am convinced that the compulsion not to use neonicotinoids will also prove creative: man will invent, imagine alternatives, but we must give ourselves the means. That is why I am calling for a sector plan for the beef and veal industry, rather than environmental dumping, through this appeal amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u247	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u249	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u250	Thank you for the quality of your arguments!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u251	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u252	I will also have an unfavorable opinion. I am very pleased with this reminder of the origins of beet and Napoleon's role in the matter, which I knew. You did not take part in a single minute of the beet debate and start over now would not be fully respectful of all the Members who were present...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u253	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u254	... and who have worked hard to move things forward in this field, instead of just taking advantage of a microphone to invoke Napoleon and the benefits of coercion,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u255	Mr President, is it possible that we are respected?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u256	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. - Exclaims on FI banks]] ... thus once again discrediting the work of this assembly which you do not respect in any way by such interventions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u257	Mr François Ruffin has the floor for a point of order. On what basis, Mr. Ruffin?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u258	Personally, Mr. President. It is indeed my right to submit an amendment to this draft budget. I do not see how it is necessary to attack a parliamentarian who exercises his right of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u259	Come and work when the others work!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u260	So go see, minister, how many committee meetings I attended this month before making comparisons!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u261	Let's go!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u262	See how many sessions I've attended this month! Count the number of my interventions! It's really not an argument to oppose me...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u263	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u264	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... instead of answering in substance when I ask you about the plan of support for the beet industry. There are ministers with whom it went very well but you, from the beginning, are attacking us on dignity and all these kinds of things. I do not see the point of getting our debate, which is a fundamental debate on the agricultural model we want, to be taken personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u265	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u266	Your point of order is noted, Mr Ruffin. It is also noted that you are committed to ensuring that each other's interventions are carried out with respect for each other. It's always good to call back.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u267	It also concerns the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u268	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u269	Another argument in favour of this amendment, sugar prices fell by 50% in 2017, resulting in a loss of EUR 500 per hectare for beet producers, and it was not the fault of the aphids, who had a good back in this case: it was the fault of Brussels, which decided to put an end to quotas and align prices on the world market, causing a crisis of overproduction and a sharp fall in prices. Since then, four sugar factories have closed in France. Two years earlier, Brussels had abolished milk quotas and the same cause had produced the same effects: overproduction, falling prices and breaking down farmers. Whatever! By dogmatism, the European Commissioners have started the same madness for beet again. How did the French leaders react? They have not moved, by submission to the dogmas of competition, free trade and globalization. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why we are asking you through this amendment to introduce regulation and guarantee the incomes of beet farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u270	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1698.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u271	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 64 Number of votes cast 63 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 16 Against 47
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u272	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1697.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u273	Sugar beet production has fallen by an average of 15% or 50% in locations: this is the damage aphids cause as a result of a mild winter due to global warming. These losses are all the more dramatic for French beavers as their neighbours and competitors do not suffer: Belgium, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria, Poland and others – nine European countries in all – have already authorised the return of neonicotinoids. It is environmental dumping that places French agriculture and its industry in an unfair competitive position. How do French leaders react to this natural scourge, Minister, and to the economic scourge of the end of quotas in Brussels and the alignment with world prices? They align from the bottom and allow these pesticides to return to the fields here too, although their harmfulness is known and recognised. While Europe has already lost 80% of its insects, bees are silently disappearing and we are witnessing the accelerated destruction of life every day, we cannot accept this setback. What world do we leave to our children? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I therefore hope that the Government and the President of the Republic will fight in Brussels to restore equal treatment by putting an end to derogations and neonicotinoids throughout the continent, and to return to regulation based on quotas and minimum prices. But as a matter of urgency, before this battle in Brussels and the victories that you will take away because you will act – I hope – firmly, we must not wait until the French farmers are fully and immediately compensated for the losses suffered by the yellow beet; that is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u274	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u275	You're more likely than I am to defend the beavers, Mr. Ruffin. I would point out that the sugar beet section of the Health and Environmental Risk Mutualisation Fund, FMSE, has never devoted a cent to setting up a guarantee in case of difficulties. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u276	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u277	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u278	Would you like to react, Mr. Ruffin?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u279	Yes, I want to present our vision for agriculture in general and for the beet sector in particular. It is summed up in a word: regulation. Rules, rules, rules. Rules that have existed for decades. Rules called production quotas, import quotas, multiplier coefficients, sowing prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u280	Rules that have made farmers disappear!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u281	These rules have been defeated one by one to leave the sector in the invisible hand of the market...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u282	Ultraliberal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u283	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...who crushed four sugar factories and could well crush French agriculture. If we fail to react by introducing an agricultural exception on the model of the cultural exception, we will not get away with it and we will not leave the French agriculture of the washing machine of globalization, which will grow it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u284	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1697.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u285	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 70 Number of votes cast 69 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 14 Against 55
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u286	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1568.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u287	We propose to encourage collective structures such as CUMA by an increase of 20% of the aid granted to them in relation to individual enterprises. It was during the hearings of the national federation of the CUMA and the Agricultural Cooperation that we were encouraged to do so. It has many advantages: it encourages mutual investment, reduces the participation of the State, which must finance less equipment, benefits more farmers and promotes ecological transition objectives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u288	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u290	I understand the purpose of this amendment and, as I said earlier, the CUMAs are very important. However, I am asking for its withdrawal because we have already included in the recovery plan a ten-point increase in the aid to which the CUMA could claim.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u291	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u292	I call Mr Hervé Pellois, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u293	[[Smile]] Couldn't we raise this mark-up to 20%, minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u294	What a negotiation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u295	Carpet merchants!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u296	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1455.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u297	I admit that I was tempted to take up the previous amendment, which was excellent, but we will come back to the collective structures. I come to Amendment No 1455: if there were only one to be adopted, it would be this one, which concerns the construction of prices – a proposal that brings together many Members beyond the parties they represent. The imbalance in the current trade structure between the concentration of the food industry and distribution on the one hand and the world of production on the other. The Sapin II and EGALIM Acts were intended to establish not only producer organisations but also associations bringing together these organizations. All this has not been followed by sufficient implementation on the ground, Minister, in particular because the dilemma involving the cooperative equation is not yet resolved, although it is not intractable. There is another reason: the state has not played its part. You can commit yourself, as you do in the recovery plan, to supporting the training and support of protected designations of origin and, in addition, to supporting European aid by sector with the accession to a PDO. This mechanism has already proved its worth, for example in the sheep sector, and would be very powerful. On the other hand, we are asking with Éric Andrieu and other Members of the European Parliament that PDOs be empowered to manage volumes to build prices. When you don't control volumes, you don't build prices. This revolution of PDOs can take place under your impulse. It does not cost very much: 1 million euros to structure and promote this effort. This is the sign we expect from you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u299	I ask that this amendment be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u300	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u301	It is satisfied that EUR 4 million is already planned for professionalisation aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u302	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u303	I accept the words of the Special Rapporteur, but I agree with you in every respect, Mr Potier: the mother of battles remains the prize. The price is a question of balance of power, which involves the question of size and, consequently, that of the organization. This is an overview that we must adopt: we must increase contracting, which is still insufficient – I am thinking of the red label, for example – but also increase transparency. Again, my three key words are trust, demand and transparency. We must move from the question of price to the question of the transparency of margins, and thus enter into the balance of power. The third part, finally, is the structuring of the sectors. As the Special Rapporteur pointed out, we have included in the recovery plan a €4 million line to speed up the organisation of the sectors – which naturally does not depend solely on financing, even if it is necessary. As this amount is already foreseen, your amendment, Mr Potier, is in a way four times satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u304	Are you withdrawing the amendment, Mr Potier?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u305	[[Smile]] Yeah, even if I'd like a fifth million...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u306	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 1701.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u307	The maintenance and enrichment of French forests is a strategic component of the necessary ecological planning at the national level, but the same applies to forests around the world, especially primary forests; Let us prevent the preservation efforts we must make in France from being cancelled by deforestation elsewhere. As part of the implementation of the national strategy to combat imported deforestation, the Scientific and Technical Committee "Forest" submitted a report to the Secretary of State for Biodiversity on 17 September 2020, in which it proposed a mechanism to reduce the risk of imported soybeans from ecosystem conversion and deforestation, by enhancing transparency and accountability of stakeholders throughout the soybean processing chain. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In order for the declarations and the report to be implemented and implemented, an external operator must be recruited or the team of officers of the Ministry of Environmental Transition must be strengthened. It is for this purpose and for reasons of financial admissibility under Article 40 that this amendment is intended to transfer EUR 1 million from Action 21 to a new programme entitled "Risk Management Mechanism for Soybean Imports". I would point out that this amendment was inspired by the Canopée association.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u309	More than just staff, we mostly need more protein crops in France to avoid having to buy proteins abroad. This is the purpose of the ongoing support plan. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u310	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u311	Same opinion. I welcome your work on this subject, Mrs Taurine, and we share the same objective. For fifty years, the system has been organized on the basis of the import of soybeans. A report commissioned by an expert group on Mercosur has even linked agricultural practices, including soy cultivation, to deforestation. This report, which we have made public, allows me to reaffirm the Government's opposition to the free trade agreement with Mercosur. In the face of this situation, what should be done? We need to restore our sovereignty and develop protein cultivation, both for animal consumption and for human consumption – we know, for example, that some legumes are missing in the nutritional basket offered to children. That is how we will succeed. To do this, we have allocated EUR 100 million to the protein plan as part of the recovery plan that you adopted on the night of Monday to Tuesday.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u312	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u313	We fully agree: we need a plan to avoid importing, but in the meantime, we continue to import. The aim of this amendment is to impose transparency and accountability on stakeholders as well as controls – in short, until the protein plan bears fruit with the relocation of plant protein production, the issue of soy remains serious. In the Cerrado, a unique ecosystem in the world that is home to 5% of global biodiversity, 88 million hectares of natural vegetation – or 49% of the total – have already disappeared! Importation must not rhyme with deforestation. In the meantime, therefore, this common-sense amendment is urgently needed to ensure that imports of soybeans do not cause deforestation in certain areas of Bolivia or elsewhere, with its consequences for biodiversity, carbon and climate change in general, but also with profound social consequences, as deforestation forces peasant and indigenous communities to a rural exodus that severely impoverishes them and imposes on them very harsh living conditions. Once again, we must adopt this amendment drawn up in connection with Canopée, a very serious association, because it responds to the urgency of the moment pending the establishment of the relocation plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u314	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u315	On Amendment No 1699, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that our current pace will not allow us to complete the examination of the appropriations for this mission within the deadlines set by the Conference of Presidents and that without an effort of brevity on your part, you will have to prepare to come back in several days – or even weeks – to conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u316	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u317	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1699.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u318	Here's an amendment that should make consensus and even unanimity as it aims to bring money into the state coffers – which will do good at this difficult time for the nation. It's about enforcing the law, the whole law, just the law. It concerns the farm of the thousand cows. A year ago, the Douai Administrative Court confirmed that the holding had to lower its herd to 500 cows – as the original order for the authorisation of the farm provided for – and that strong financial penalties would be required as long as it did not. This decision has not yet been implemented. And according to an article in Reporterre, the prefecture of the Somme, which should enforce the decision, indicates waiting for the instructions of the ministry. But the ministry's instructions lead to nothing! The loss of profits for the State is 500,000 euros. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is necessary that the law be respected. To this end and in view of the admissibility rules, this amendment provides EUR 500,000 for a new programme entitled "Compliance with animal husbandry rules" through the transfer of EUR 500,000 from Action 01 "Central government means" of Programme 215 "Direction and management of agricultural policies". However, we call on the Government to raise the pledge, enforce the law and recover its shortfall of between €500,000 and €1 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u319	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u320	We are touching on the limits of a credit amendment: I do not know how to answer you. In view of the current situation and the way in which we have to look at our amendments today, an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u321	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u322	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u323	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u324	It's absolutely amazing! It is only requested that a court order be enforced, which would also allow money to be entered into the State funds; However, far from answering the substance of the matter, we only mention the form, telling us that the amendment is not tabled in the right place, even though it has been considered admissible! The minister, questioned on this matter, does not pronounce himself, when we are in a manifest case of double standards! When the Peasant Confederation had dismantled three bolts from the same farm of the "thousand cows", it had been condemned to pay 100,000 euros, and it paid them, even though it had played the role of whistleblower there! Why is the Government now showing inertia and leniency? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] For the anecdote, the former director of the thousand cows farm went to work on an organic farm, in Normandy it seems to me. I think that this shift is a good sign and a sign of optimism: it indicates the meaning of the future. What did not indicate the meaning of the future, on the other hand, was the Government's choice not to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u325	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1699.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u326	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 58 Number of votes cast 58 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 8 Against 50
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u327	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 1494.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u328	But in what world are we, that the president of an opposition group – that of the communist group, moreover – must play the small hands of the minister of agriculture? I expected the Traverts, Moreau, Turquois and Pellois to go up to the niche, with regard to the abolition, in this year's budget, of 234 full-time equivalents at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food! You can see the anger of the minister, who sees his resources as amputated personnel: 123 posts will be abolished in the DRAAF – regional directorates of food, agriculture and forestry – the DDT – departmental directorates of the territories – and other deconcentrated departments of the state, with all the consequences that this can entail. All the more so since in four years – I am biting a bit about the previous mandate – no less than 970 full-time equivalents have been removed from the Ministry of Agriculture. Yet we are in a phase of transition to agroecology. A new CAP will apply, which will require support, the development of national strategic plans and much greater follow-up than in recent years, to take account of environmental developments, particularly in agronomic practices. Of course, 60 posts are transferred to regional services, which is understandable. [[Mrs Bénédicte Taurine applauds]] The amendment is therefore intended to serve our minister by re-establishing the 234 posts that have been removed from the budget for 2021. I think it will be the subject of a great deal of unanimity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u329	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u330	The Government had established a multi-year strategy: everyone was free to agree with or criticize it. We preferred to target the amendments on certain operators. Central and deconcentrated services, as well as operators, were not taken by surprise. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u332	Same opinion, but I would like to thank President Chassaigne for the solidarity of the Communist bloc with my ministry. I'm very touched by that.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u333	Mr Chassaigne, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u334	I keep it, of course! I'm not going to leave the minister in this catastrophic situation!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u335	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 1700.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u336	For our farmers to live well, the key is prices, prices, prices! In fact, they were at the heart of the general states of food. However, by analysing official data on, among other things, consumer milk, beef and chicken fillets, UFC-Que Choir has shown that the price promise has not been kept. Take the example of UHT milk: according to UFC-Que Choosing, since 2017, the price of UHT milk paid to the breeder has decreased by 5%, while the margin of distributors has increased by 8%. So consumers now pay 4% more for milk, while farmers are less well paid. FranceAgriMer's data say the same thing: for all productions – large cattle, standard cow's milk, standard goat's milk, lamb – the selling price was lower than the cost of production. For several productions, it has even declined since Rungis's speech and the general states of food! It's a failure. In his report from the committee of inquiry on the situation and practices of large-scale distribution and its groupings in their commercial relations with their suppliers, my colleague Thierry Benoit explained that, while the new arrangements of the EGALIM law – a law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all – were certainly in the right direction – which I doubt in my personal capacity – they were not sufficient. [[Ms Stephanie Atger protested]] This failure is true not only in prices, but also in decision-making processes. When I ask the farmers in my constituency what the EGALIM law has changed for them, they answer: nothing. It can always be said that they are small producers, that they are busy with their work, that they do not have time to put their noses in their papers. But it happens that, at the breeding summit in Clermont-Ferrand, I met the representatives of the Limousine sector, the Holstein, the vendean sheep and the charollese sheep: neither do they see any change. Nothing has changed, therefore, either in prices or in decision-making processes. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is for this reason that we propose, among other measures, to strengthen the role of the Observatory for the formation of food prices and margins.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u337	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u338	The minister said earlier that he prefers to strengthen the training of operators, farmers, who have to negotiate prices with large distribution. I, too, believe that they should be given the floor and the opportunity to organize themselves. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u339	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u340	Disadvantaged too. I would like to take a moment to pay tribute to the work of the majority on the issue of prices. You do not use the same method as Mr Ruffin, who comes to me again on all these subjects,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u341	How kind...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u342	... but you work a lot and, since the general states of food – EGA – organized by Stéphane Travert, then Minister of Agriculture and Food, you fight every day, on the ground, to improve the issue of prices. Mr Ruffin, you have referred to the summit of livestock farming, but this year it has not taken place! On the other hand, with President André Chassaigne and MP Jean-Baptiste Moreau, we brought together the producers of young cattle and broilers. We have tried to put everyone in the same dynamic, in order to improve prices. And it wasn't a year and a half ago, it was just a few weeks ago – President Chassaigne can confirm it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The presidential majority and others, like President Chassaigne, are fighting for the prizes, because she is the mother of the battles. They do the job in the field, without then benefiting from the effect of a stage: I greet them and thank them for it. The battle is hard, but we will not let go, because the price, I repeat, is the mother of battles!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u343	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u344	What separates us is that you believe in the market, just the market, and you give everything to the market. You have just said, Mr Special Rapporteur, that you are going to train operators, i.e., farmers, to negotiate with the agri-food industry and large-scale distribution. But how will this change the balance of power, which is now completely unbalanced at the expense of small farmers? If, in the face of the market, with this invisible hand that crushes them, with this imbalance that favours the strong against the weak, all you have to offer is to form them, without the state coming to impose rules and laws, it is obvious that the small ones will remain crushed. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] What separates us is your belief in the market in all areas – we have seen it well in the health crisis that we have been going through since spring: the market, the whole market, just the market, even if it extends to Canada, Mexico, perhaps soon to MERCOSUR. While we are talking about relocation, agreements continue to be signed to extend the market's power a little more.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u345	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u346	[[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] [[MM. Charles de la Verpillière and François Ruffin applaud]] Mr Minister, we will not repeat the debate on food here. I do not know how many you have met, but farmers are absolutely not satisfied with the effects of the EGALIM law, because they are not the ones expected: the question is no longer that of prices and costs. Maybe we should reconsider your arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u347	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u348	Mrs Blin, Mr Ruffin, we can obviously repeat the debates!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u349	Not tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u350	Not tonight! But I invite all those who would like to repeat the debate to participate in all the forums where it has been held every day for months!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u351	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u352	Farmers, I meet them every day; MP Jean-Baptiste Moreau, who wanted to speak, also met with them every day. Yes, we fight every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u353	So do we.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u354	From afar, Mr. Ruffin, from afar.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u355	There's not one satisfied!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u356	What does your amendment propose, Mr Ruffin? Put 10 million euros in an observatory! If I had waited for you for that, the case would have been nice! Do you really think that would make a difference? No. On the other hand, together with Serge Papin, we relaunched the EGA 5 workshop, to return to the initial momentum launched by Stéphane Travert: three or four meetings have already been held. We are a total requirement with regard to the application of the EGALIM law. I have presented to the Council of Ministers all the results, regulations and penalties that must be applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u357	It hasn't changed anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u358	How can we go further? I said this morning in the rostrum: we must move from price wars to transparency of margins. That's how we get into the balance of power! So we can relaunch the debate on the EGA this afternoon, I am quite prepared to do so, I fight every day on this subject;...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u359	So take a real look!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u360	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...but, please, stop talking about stage!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u361	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr François Ruffin has the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u362	My point of order is based on Rule 78, for personal reasons. It is well known how this House works: opposition members table appeal amendments, the amounts they can include are small. In any event, Serge Papin, who was interviewed during the general states of food, had said that minimums must be guaranteed and prices fixed. As long as you don't introduce them to fight the invisible hand of the market, prices will be crushed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u363	Mr Ruffin, the personal fact is in Rule 58, not Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure. This will allow you, in the future, to make points of order based on the right provisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u364	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1744 and 1745, which can be presented together. Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u365	I'm going to go to the essentials. They tend to create additional posts, respectively within the regional Directorates of Food, Agriculture and Forestry – the subject of Amendment No 1744 – and within the departmental Directorates of Social Cohesion and Population Protection, and the departmental Directorates of Population Protection – this is the subject of Amendment No 1745. These additional posts would strengthen the quality control of food donations made to food aid associations through large and medium-sized distribution, as well as by agri-food companies and some large collective restoration structures. Indeed, while the obligation for large and medium-sized distribution to enter into a donation agreement with associations is enshrined in the 2016 law, the extension of this measure to additional sectors, adopted in the EGALIM law, has allowed a quantitative increase in donations, which, however, often lacks quality. At a time when food insecurity is experiencing an unprecedented rise in our country, it is necessary to strengthen controls in order to guarantee good quality food donations to associations. To this end, the aim of these amendments is to increase the human resources of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u366	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u367	I take the floor on behalf of Michel Lauzzana, Special Rapporteur, who is forced to be absent. You highlight the difficulty of obtaining a certain level of quality in terms of food aid and the fight against insecurity. However, it is not contradictory: food aid must be of high quality – it is already the case. As for the means that you wish to use to create full-time equivalents, your amendments are satisfied with the increase in the Mission's appropriations, of the order of 6%, which precisely increases the activity of quality control of food donations. I call for the two amendments to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u368	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u369	Same opinion. I also refer you to the decree of 20 October 2020 – it has just appeared – which establishes the framework for this control, which was the first necessary step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u370	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1669.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u371	The aim of this amendment is to save the 23 posts which have to be abolished within FranceAgriMer, given the latter's involvement in the recovery plan: this establishment will in fact have to distribute more than half of the sums provided for in this plan in the field of agricultural transition. In order to meet its needs, it would be welcome if the year were to run without downsizing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u372	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u373	He will not be in favour, for the reasons I have already mentioned. Of course, the role of FranceAgriMer is fully taken into account in the management of the recovery plan, and I ensure that our organisation gives us the means to achieve our ambitions. Unfavorable opinion, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u374	I call Mr Thierry Benoit to support Amendment No. 792.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u375	Mr Minister, among the conclusions of our committee of inquiry on the situation and practices of large-scale distribution and its groupings in their commercial relations with suppliers was the need to move from trade relations centred on price war, and thus oriented towards confrontation, to cooperation relations. In this context, the Ombudsman for Agricultural Trade Relations plays a key role. Therefore, this amendment proposes to increase the means available to this Ombudsman by EUR 440000. We had the same discussion last year; the proposal had been adopted unanimously in the framework of the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u376	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u377	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u378	Last year, the then minister made a commitment to assign one or two FTEs to the Ombudsman acting as mission officers. I therefore leave it to the minister to explain to us what has happened since then.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u379	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u380	First of all, we have appointed a delegate mediator, which partly responds to your request. Secondly, in the context of the employment patterns I mentioned, we decided not to touch on mediation: it was essential. Finally, the mediator has just given me suggestions for improvement, which I would like to communicate with you with great pleasure: they relate mainly to the action of mediation. This is a review of his experience with the last trade negotiations, which ended in April, and news, which is just beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u381	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 475 and 1110. I call Mr Philippe Naillet to support Amendment No. 475.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u382	This is an appeal amendment aimed, once again, at drawing the Government's attention to the uncertainty currently surrounding the POSEI budget, the programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity. The maintenance of the appropriations for the period 2021-2027 has still not been formalized: farmers in the outermost regions – OR – could be penalized by EUR 25 million, which would threaten to destroy many ultramarine agricultural sectors, some of which have been structured for several decades. Thousands of jobs would be called into question. Our food sovereignty and security, which are part of our objectives, would be receded. With a view to ensuring the financial admissibility of this amendment under Article 40 of the Constitution, the 25 million, earmarked for Action 21 "Adapting the sectors to market developments" of Programme 149, would be taken from Action 04 "Common Means" of Programme 215. However, in order not to diminish the latter, it would of course be desirable, in view of the adoption of this amendment, for the Government to lift the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u383	Amendment No 1110 by Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u384	Mr Naillet, I support your appeal to the Minister to defend this matter in Brussels as best as possible. On the other hand, your proposal leaves me sceptical: it is not only an appeal amendment, it is also a budget amendment. As such, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u385	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u386	On this important subject, I have had the opportunity to address the Assembly on questions to the Government. Be assured of my full mobilization, as well as that of Sébastien Lecornu, Clement Beaune and the President of the Republic. Today, the account is not there. The stakes are not really financial: for France, if my memory is good, the decline of the POSEI would amount to about 11 million a year. The question, therefore, is not to finance the POSEI by taking the common agricultural policy from the CAP's national budget: it is that France, as well as other European countries, wants POSEI to continue to be identified as a programme of solidarity between the European Union and the Overseas Territories. It is on this point that we have not yet won. We are stepping up our efforts with the European Commission; The President of the Republic himself is very involved. Discussions continue. POSEI is essential to our ultramarine territories: count on us to continue to mobilize for it. Next week, moreover, an interdepartmental committee on agricultural challenges overseas meets: this will be a good opportunity to recall.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u387	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 214, 1109 and 1645. I call Mr Philippe Naillet to support Amendment No. 214.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u388	During his visit to La Réunion in October 2019, the President of the Republic announced that the CIOM fund – the Interministerial Committee on Overseas Affairs – would amount to 45 million euros. During the containment in the context of the health crisis, the ultramarine agriculture, fisheries and food sectors have demonstrated their ability to mobilize against the sharp slowdown in air and sea freight and the risk of shortages, thanks to the structuring process that some of them have begun for several decades. Their mobilisation has demonstrated once again that they play a fundamental role, indispensable for the food security of our overseas compatriots, but also that the CIOM fund must have a minimum of 45 million euros. Due to a lack of budgetary anticipation in the preparation of the 2020 Finance Act, the Government had encountered difficulties in obtaining the necessary funds. The "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" mission only provides $43 million for the CIOM fund in 2021. However, it is foreseeable that its mission of food security, further development of the agricultural sector and support for the actors concerned will require at least 45 million. In order to prevent this new government from facing the same problems as at the time, and farmers and elected officials from worrying, this amendment aims to provide the CIOM fund of €45 million. Its financial admissibility would be ensured by levying from Action 04 of Programme 215 of the additional 2 million allocated to Action 21 of Programme 149. In order to ensure that the appropriations for programme 215 are not reduced, it would be desirable, in view of the adoption of this amendment, for the Government to lift the pledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u389	Amendment No 1109 by Hélène Vainqueur-Christophe is being defended. I call Mr Turquois to support Amendment No. 1645.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u390	This amendment by Justine Benin aims to increase, as Philippe Naillet pointed out, the food autonomy of the ultramarine territories by raising the CIOM fund to 45 million, as the President of the Republic committed during his last visit to La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u391	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u392	From the 2020 budget to the 2021 budget, we have increased from 40 million to 43 million, for the time being. I let the minister tell us why we are not reaching 45 million. As the committee has not examined this amendment, I believe that everyone remains free to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u393	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u394	In 2020, we have even achieved, I believe, 46.3 million, of which 43 million are basic, supplemented by appropriations from the Overseas Ministry. This year, I pledge that the CIOM fund will receive 45 million in fine: the 2 million missing will be the result of redeployments. It is necessary to reach those 45 million, which correspond to the commitment made by the President of the Republic. We will keep this commitment, I promise you. I therefore request the withdrawal of these amendments; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u395	I call Mrs Stéphanie Atger to support Amendment No. 1181.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u396	This amendment by Raphaël Gérard proposes to shift EUR 2 million from the appropriations of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to the action fund for the agricultural strategy and agri-processing in the overseas countries and territories. On 25 October 2019, during his visit to La Réunion, the President of the Republic committed to the upgrading of the fund for the diversification of the ultramarine agricultural sectors to the tune of 45 million euros from 2020, in particular to take account of the structural constraints linked to remoteness and insularity. However, in previous fiscal years, the amount of this fund has not been realigned, remaining at the level of 40 million. On 7 June, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food announced the launch of a procedure for the notification of a supplementary allocation of 5 million national funds, with an increase of 3 million financed by the Ministry of Overseas Affairs. The aim of this amendment is therefore to put an end to the uncertainties regarding the additional EUR 2 million from the appropriations of the other relevant ministries, as Annick Girardin explained in November 2019, at his hearing by the Overseas Delegation of the National Assembly, that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food was "manoeuvring".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u397	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u398	The committee has not been able to consider this amendment, but we have heard the minister: I am asking for his withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u399	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u400	Same opinion, for the same reasons. I have made a commitment, and the department is indeed "manoeuvring."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u401	Mr Philippe Naillet has the floor to support Amendment No. 1694.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u402	The aim of this amendment is to amend commitment authorisations and payment appropriations for EUR 1 million. The appearance at La Réunion of the bactrocera dorsalis, the eastern fruit fly, endangers many crops, since it has been identified 500 plants in which it can reproduce. Last year, this invasive insect of Asian origin affected the production of mangoes. Its proliferation has very important consequences for both the volume produced and the export, since it has been banned in order to avoid the colonization of Europe and in particular France. In order to ensure the financial admissibility of this amendment under Article 40 of the Constitution, EUR 1 million for Action 01 of Programme 206 would be drawn from Action 04 of Programme 215. In order not to reduce it, it would be desirable for the Government to lift the pledge in view of the adoption of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u403	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u404	Again, I speak on behalf of the Special Rapporteur Michel Lauzzana. You are asking for an additional EUR 1 million, Mr Naillet, to fight against this fruit fly that is wreaking havoc on the island of La Réunion, under surveillance since 2007. A number of actions and research have been carried out by CIRAD, the Centre for International Cooperation in Agronomic Research for Development, including fly trapping. Without knowing more about the substance, I leave the floor to the minister, especially since the committee did not consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u405	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u406	I agree with the statement made by the Special Rapporteur. This topic should be considered in the broader context of the fight against health and zootechnical epidemics. This fly presents an additional difficulty: since it is already very widespread, it requires zootechnical control techniques different from others, which aim only to limit the spread. The already very wide spread of this fly calls for the use of devices that I could call common law. I am prepared to discuss the matter again with you at a later stage, but until then I propose that you withdraw your amendment. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u407	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1454 and 1446, which can be presented together. On Amendment No 1454, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Potier to support the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u408	Amendment No 1454 is one of the most important. However, I would be quite brief. These two amendments concern a subject we all know about, that of land control. We are pleased, Minister, to have engaged in a trans-party manner with you, on the basis of parliamentary reports, the work of unions, communities and non-governmental organizations, the outline of the first stage of a land regulation law responding to the challenges of the 21st century. I will not detail all of these issues here; The main ones concern soil protection, added value and installation policy, since one in two assets will cease to be active in the next 10 years. Without land regulation, there will be no installation policy. Without installation and generation renewal, there will be no agroecology. The first of the two amendments stresses that structural control is a nodal point. The profession, in the traditional sense of the term, has reaffirmed the primacy of this control as a means, for it, of regulation. It suffers not only from legislative directives, which we will propose to strengthen in due course, but also lacks officials as they used to exist: knowing the territory, able to discern what is good from what is not and to determine the policies to be carried out. There are not only robots and commissions: officials who prepare the files and know how to be skilled are also needed – like their delegated public service colleagues from SAFER, land development and rural settlement companies, who carry out excellent work. Therefore, the State must re-arm itself. We propose to provide one FTE job per department. It's not much, but it would be a very positive signal. For 100 departments, this represents EUR 5 million. We have asked for a vote by public vote on this amendment because your answer is very much expected. As for Amendment No 1446, I will withdraw it. It aimed to create a Green booklet as a financial instrument to accompany policies for the installation and port of land in associative modes, public as well as private, innovative. However, this topic could be dealt with later. The urgency today is to improve the control of structures by law and by human means. I'll stop there, but there's still a lot to say.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u409	[[Smile]] Time would not allow you to do so because you have already spent more than two minutes on an amendment that you wanted to put forward in a concise way! What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u410	We all know Mr. Potier's appetite for the vital issues of settlement and land management. Initiatives will probably be taken by the chambers of agriculture as part of the objective and performance contracts, to strengthen their technicians or engineers on these issues. Not everything can come from the ministry. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u411	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u412	He is also against the amendment, but Mr Potier knows my position on soil protection. As I indicated this morning, there are in fact three subjects: protection, recovery and transmission, and of course protection covering the issue of soil artificialisation. I had a lot of discussions with some of you when I was in charge of housing. Remember, in particular, the criticisms that were made to me, when I proposed reorienting the rental investment from the new pavilion to the old one in the city centre, or when we proposed moratoria on the development of large distribution on the periphery to the detriment of the city centre. My beliefs have not changed, I still think we need better soil protection. The amendment proposes to punctuate the cross-cutting means, in particular those of the officials of the ministry, in order to devote them to the control of the structures. Of course, we must move forward on the issue of agricultural land, but I believe that this is an appeal amendment and I ask you to withdraw it. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u413	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u414	The two main paths of the current drift of land are the societal phenomenon and the work in a way, or well delegated in an integral way. If we do not act in the coming months, Minister, we will be co-responsible for an ecological, economic and social disaster. The movement is exponential; Every day scandals break out. In the East, the hectares absorbed by the corporate phenomenon are now more numerous than those regulated by SAFER, so that some markets are not regulated. On the simple Republican level, it is absolutely scandalous. We have to act quickly. It may be after the next presidential election that a major land bill can be debated, but initial answers are needed, as this amendment proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u415	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u416	Personally, I will abstain because I do not measure the number of FTEs that would be required, but I would like to emphasize the value of this appeal amendment. In order to succeed in the ecological transformation that we call for, it is urgent, as my colleague Dominique Potier points out, to address the issue of land. The 1000-hectare or 2000-hectare farms, as we see today, will not put in place the agroecology we all want. It is therefore urgent to take action, in the coming months, on land regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u417	Thank you, Nicolas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u418	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1454.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u419	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 68 Number of votes cast 61 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 10 Against 51
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u420	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No 1687 on the additional Rule before Rule 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u421	We call on the Government to submit a report by 31 March 2021 on the impact of the colonization of part of the industry by the Scolytes on the marketing of wood.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u422	It's indispensable!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u423	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u424	It's a subject we've been talking about all morning. Your fellow signatories would no doubt be entirely satisfied, Mrs Blin: more than one report, it was EUR 16 million that was spent in 2020 on the treatment of scolytes in transport and operating activities. The minister also announced this morning that he had obtained an additional EUR 200 million. If the amendment is not withdrawn, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u425	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to support Amendment No. 292.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u426	He's withdrawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u427	Amendment No 1675 by Mrs Annie Genevard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u428	Mrs Sandra Boëlle has the floor to support Amendment No. 1728.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u429	This amendment by my colleague Josiane Corneloup calls on the Government to submit a report assessing the scheme of the young farmers' allocation, which sets the maximum income threshold at three times the amount of the SMIC. In view of the recurrent difficulties faced by young farmers, it would seem more appropriate to maintain the aid acquired during the first five years and to take account of the corresponding farm results only for eligibility for future applications. This amendment is also likely to encourage the establishment of young farmers. This is a major challenge in the coming years, with the majority of our farmers over 55 years of age. The priority must be to provide young farmers with every opportunity not to be penalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u430	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u431	The thresholds you are referring to were taken into account in the reform of the reduction in the profits of young farmers two years ago: it was capped at 75% against 50% for the highest incomes, and expanded for incomes below three SMICs. We will not change the rules every year: if we do not withdraw the amendment, we do not agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u432	Mrs Nathalie Serre has the floor to support Amendment No. 828.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u433	This amendment calls for an annual report on the management of the Avenir bio structuring fund, in order to justify government support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u434	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u435	Request for withdrawal or, failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u436	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1458.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u437	We were able to pass, in the EGALIM bill, with the support of Minister Stéphane Travert and our colleagues, an amendment redefining group farming. Indeed, it has not been legally defined since its creation in the 1960s, when Edgard Pisani was Minister of Agriculture, while land reforms were being carried out and the CUMA – cooperatives for the use of agricultural equipment – and GAEC – joint farming groups were developing. We had found, together with the whole community movement, in particular the CUMA, a satisfactory definition allowing the introduction of ad hoc tax or regulatory policies. You need to make group agriculture a lever to win back added value in the territories, settlement policies and dialogue between cities and the countryside and with our fellow citizens – in short, a weapon for public policies that we support together here. This amendment is not an appeal amendment. A public policy to support group agriculture on the part of the ministry would be an excellent investment, in a time when individualism and sterile competition cannot be answers to the goals we pursue together.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u438	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u439	Mr Potier knows my commitment to group farming. Sensitive to his arguments, I express a favourable opinion in my personal capacity and let my colleagues express themselves if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u440	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u441	The subject of group agriculture is very complex; There is no definition of it at the moment, and you are proposing to work on it. I, too, think that this is one of the issues on which we need to move forward. I am not particularly in favour of reports, because I do not think it is through this that we are moving forward quickly. However, I recognize the need to work on the subject of group agriculture. There is much to be done in this area, but we also have a considerable number of subjects to deal with in the next eighteen months, which we will have to prioritize. I would point out that when departmental services officers work on a report, they do not devote themselves to other topics. I will therefore ask you to withdraw the amendment and, failing that, issue an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u442	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u443	I withdraw this amendment; The call was launched. If a legislative vehicle of the same order as the law on the social and solidarity economy were to be discussed, I would like on this occasion not to forget this subject and to help us defend it so that it succeeds; I am not asking for any specific text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u444	I call the appropriations of the mission "Agricultural and Rural Development", entered in state D. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1468 and 1580. On these two identical amendments, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1468.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u445	I will be brief, because Mr Pellois will defend the same second amendment. We are in total misunderstanding of the decline in the appropriations allocated to the special allocation account "Agricultural and rural development" – CASDAR – when we need them more than ever. We do not understand the reduction in this PLF, when we need to rearm agricultural development. They must have the means to develop them. This is a widely shared view and we would benefit from adopting these identical amendments in this parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u446	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1580.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u447	We do not understand this reduction in appropriations, which was not expected. It is, I believe, close to 12% compared to the actual revenue of 2019, while GDP is forecast to fall by 10% to 11% and this contraction is likely to be much smaller in agriculture. Indeed, agricultural activity has continued and not all farms' turnover is poor. So we don't understand. To take up the minister's remarks this morning, I would say that it is not the budget that must manage the policy, but the other way around. It is not since Bercy that these problems must be considered, but since the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u448	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u449	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u450	CASDAR raises many questions. I have been able to present you with a budget where the rebudgeting of this trust account is not on the agenda – I would like to make it clear because we must always indicate where we are going and, in this case, I welcome it. CASDAR collects revenue for the year N - 1. Thus, when we go from 136 million euros to 126 million euros, this means that we will probably be below 126 million euros for this year's levies. The principle of budgetary sincerity should lead us to reduce this ceiling, but this would lead to a difficulty for the following year, when raising CASDAR would be a new expenditure. Good management is to raise the level of CASDAR from €136 million to €126 million, as we propose. Finally, there is one point in these amendments that I am not sure about: they provide for a transfer between two programmes within CASDAR itself, i.e. within the EUR 126 million envelope, which does not seem to me to correspond to the purpose you are pursuing. For all these reasons, I am against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u451	I call Mr Hervé Pellois, Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u452	I would point out that the adoption of these amendments cannot of course satisfy us if we do not at the same time obtain a commitment from the Minister on the carry-over of last year's surpluses to this year, in accordance with Article 21 of the LOLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u453	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1468 and 1580.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u454	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 70 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 18 Against 47
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u455	Amendment No 1714 by Mr Julien Aubert is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u456	Identical amendments Nos 654 by Mr Fabrice Brun and 1014 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u457	Amendment No 1715 by Mr Olivier Falorni is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u458	Mr Xavier Batut has the floor to support Amendment No. 1638.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u459	This amendment concerns the flax fibre industry, not the oilseed flax industry, which will benefit from the plant protein plan which is itself part of the France Recovery Plan. We propose to increase the commitment authorisations and payment appropriations for the programme 776 by EUR 4 million in order to intensify the research and development of more profitable, responsible and sustainable flax production techniques led by the Arvalis Agricultural Technical Institute. France is the world's largest producer of flax fibre, traditionally used for textile manufacture. However, other uses of this fibre have emerged: it can replace carbon fibre or fibreglass. Flaxseed is one of the flagships of Calvados, the North, the Seine-Maritime – my department –, the Eure, the Somme, and many other territories. If the flax-fiber crop is growing regularly, with a doubling of the area cultivated since 2011, the industry faces increasing difficulties. The crisis of the covid-19 caused exports to fall by 80%. Climate change is increasingly affecting crop quality, while consumers are increasingly demanding on an environmental level. It is not only necessary to preserve, sustain and develop this world-renowned line of excellence, but also to act now to reduce as much as possible the use of inputs in flax-fiber crops, so that this sector does not find itself at the same impasse as others, with farmers having no solution to replace plant protection products in the face of the climatic stress of plants and the development of harmful organisms favored by global warming. Linists have initiated research and development programmes aimed at limiting the use of plant protection products by adapting to climate change through COMBILIN – a combination of levers for integrated fibre flax production – and BREEDFAX – developed tools for adapting to climate change. These programmes run by Arvalis are slowing down due to a lack of financial resources. To carry them out, an additional €1.2 million is required each year for five years. This amendment therefore intends to support the research and development challenges for flax fibre production.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u460	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u461	Mr Batut, I know your commitment to a sector that is dear to me also as a Northern Member of Parliament. This sustainable sector, which now finds opportunities beyond the textile industry in advanced technology industries, has been widely supported on these banks, especially since the day of support organized for it last summer, which saw many of our colleagues gather around President Richard Ferrand. While it is always difficult to mobilise financial resources in support of a particular production, flax is a product of French excellence and one of the flagships of our exports: that is why I am issuing a wisdom opinion on behalf of the Committee on Finance, stating that I personally support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u462	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u463	I am not in favour of transferring appropriations from one programme to another which this amendment proposes to carry out. For me, the key issue is programming within CASDAR, which falls within my remit and that of the Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, particularly in agronomic research. We have not directed any funds on flax for years – it would be necessary in the context of the new programming. The national programming that will come to an end next year should encourage us to take up this issue now, so that a research programme on this crop can be set up, as will be the case for beet and glyphosate. I agree with you that this is a priority, I welcome your willingness to move things forward and I pledge that we will put ourselves around a table to see how the flax file could benefit from CASDAR support. In the immediate future, I invite you to withdraw this amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u464	We are now considering several amendments to the Additional Rule after Rule 58. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 1237 and 1464, on which the Socialist and related groups have submitted a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Amendment No 1237 by Mr Pellois, Special Rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Finance, is being defended. I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 1464.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u465	This amendment reaffirms the need for development based on collectives who think in a systemic way. Minister, you have put a lot of money into the evolution of technologies to reduce input impacts. We will pay close attention to the use of these funds, because on the contrary we plead for human, collective and systemic means, which we consider to be much more efficient, to be deployed in the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u466	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u467	I am against these identical amendments, which consist of an umpteenth request for a report: the subject on which they relate is quite a matter of Parliament's control over the use of appropriations – in this case those of the recovery plan. Of course, I encourage national representation to make use of its control capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u468	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1237 and 1464.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u469	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 73 Number of votes cast 67 Absolute majority 34 For adoption 26 Against 41
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u470	Mr Xavier Batut has the floor to support Amendment No. 1639.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u471	In view of the commitments made by the Minister on my previous amendment, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u472	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have completed the review of the appropriations for the "Agriculture, Food, Forest and Rural Affairs" Mission and the "Agricultural and Rural Development" Trust Account. The meeting was suspended for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u473	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u474	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u475	We are dealing with the examination of defence appropriations (No 3399, Annexes 13 and 14; No 3403, Volume IV; No 3465, Volumes II to VII) and to veterans, in memory and in connection with the nation (No 3399, Annex 7); No 3465, Volume I). Mr Cornut-Gentille, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u476	This year, the "Defence" mission will see its appropriations increase by 1.7 billion euros. For the third consecutive year, the original finance law is therefore strictly in accordance with the military programming law – LPM. This is obviously very good news. The review of the budgets carried out is also satisfactory. Of course, the financing of external operations – OPEX – still raises questions, but to a much smaller extent than in the past. No one can deny the importance of the effort to bring the armies up to level. The budget seems to be firmly launched on track, while the revision of the MPA, scheduled for 2021, could only be a formality. All these positive elements should enable us to approach the future with confidence. I believe, however, that we are entering a period of great difficulty – this is the paradoxical situation in which we find ourselves. Of course, everything has gone well so far, but there is evidence that things could get complicated quickly. In this regard, I would like to express two major areas of concern: one is budgetary, the other concerns our industrial and technological defence base – BITD. In budgetary terms, the LPM will take a new EUR 1.7 billion step in 2022, followed by three successive steps of EUR 3 billion in subsequent years. Everyone knows that such a development was already very ambitious in the economic context in which it was conceived – that is to say, how unrealistic it is in the post-health crisis context. While, in the coming months, the social and economic priorities, but also the regal ones, will be stronger than ever, will the speech calling for strict respect for the LPM be sufficient? I would even say, will he be audible? I dare not consider the situation when, sooner or later, we come back under the pressure of budgetary rigour. As far as IBTD is concerned, I have noted the work done by the Directorate-General for Armaments – DGA – to better support small and medium-sized enterprises during the crisis. However, I would like to stress the extreme fragility of our industrial fabric: almost 25% of the companies concerned have already been in the red for two years, proof that their difficulties are not merely cyclical, but structural. It is welcome to provide them with temporary support, but this does not meet the structural factors. A vital challenge remains: banks' reluctance to engage behind these companies, both for reasons of reputation and fear of American retaliation; For the time being, this problem remains unresolved. Similarly, the rise of Definvest – an investment fund dedicated to strategic defence companies – is a good initiative, but the money allocated to it is absolutely not up to the stakes. The case of Photonis has just recalled this, among many other examples. Let us be clear: my intention is not to hold you responsible for this situation, Madam Minister, nor to play the Cassandres, but to ask you what your attitude will be and what your priorities will be in facing these terrible challenges before us. You will allow me, for my part, to make three suggestions. The first is your ministry's communication. It is legitimate – and understandable – to want to highlight the ongoing recovery. I think, however, that it is no longer appropriate to proceed with this in the current context, because it accredits, in the opinion, the misconception that the Ministry of Armed Forces no longer requires effort. Hence my second thought: no matter what, the Ministry of Armed Forces will not escape a difficult debate on its budget. He has every interest in opening it himself, rather than letting it be imposed by those who want to reduce its means. In this spirit, anything that highlights shortcomings or shortcomings is useful and should be considered not as a criticism, but as a contribution to the debate, recalling the need not to interrupt the upgrade. This is how I interpret the intervention of the Chief of the Armed Staff before the Defence Commission last July when he questioned our model of army and developed the concept of massification. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] However, this kind of debate is difficult to conduct within the armed forces alone. This leads me to my third and final reflection: there is a natural place to conduct such a debate, Parliament. If he is not meant to relay the language elements of your ministry, he is not his enemy. In the coming months, I call on you to give greater confidence to Parliament's freedom of speech. You don't have to fear her and your ministry has everything to gain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u477	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u478	Let me begin by expressing real satisfaction: Madam Minister, your budget for 2021 is fully in line with the MPA adopted in 2018. Thanks to this majority, thanks to you, our armies are finding ways to carry out their missions. The memory of the deflation between 2008 and 2015 is still too bright not to rejoice. The defence operational budget corresponds to Program 178, which includes appropriations for preparation, maintenance in operational condition – MCO – and the use of forces. In 2021, commitment authorities for this programme will increase by 17% to EUR 19 billion, while payment appropriations will increase by 3.3% to EUR 10.3 billion. I note that the total provision for financing the additional costs of external and internal operations amounts to 1.2 billion, a level that has never been reached before. The search for increased material availability remains your priority. For the preparation of the air force, commitment authorisations thus increase by 78.5%, reaching EUR 9 billion. The Department wishes to expand the contracting of long-term maintenance contracts to improve the availability of equipment. For example, the contract of MCO of the Mirage 2000, notified in 2021, will cover a period of fifteen years. However, the containment period revealed weaknesses in the spare parts system. I propose that a feedback be undertaken for this period, and that a mapping of consecutive risks be established. Should we not consider the creation of larger stocks and the relocation of orders at least partially? I also call for a strengthening of the means of naval MCO present in the Indo-Pacific zone, in order to have a real operational autonomy. The MCO is one of the pillars of operational excellence of forces. But this never-finished quest for excellence will go above all through the women and men of defence. As such, I report the appropriations for Program 212, which brings together the cross-cutting leadership and support functions of the Ministry of Armed Forces and includes personnel and military personnel. These appropriations will increase by 0.5% in commitment authorisations and by 0.4% in payment appropriations, to a total level close to EUR 22 billion. In both cases, the commitment of the military programming law to stand at the level of man is respected. This commitment is reflected first and foremost in the first step of the new policy of remuneration for military personnel, namely the creation of the Military Geographical Mobility Allowance for an amount of EUR 38 million. This allowance will allow for greater consideration of mobility hardship and will enhance fairness among the military through its openness to singles. In addition, the service link premium will increase from €34 million in 2020 to €56 million in 2021. The efficiency of this flexible premium, which can be attributed to the member who renews his or her appointment, is high, as the retention of an army volunteer makes it possible to avoid an expenditure of 42000 euros necessary for the recruitment and training of his or her replacement. The draft finance law also foresees significant progress in the living conditions of the military: 236 million euros will be committed in 2021 as part of the accommodation plan, 18,000 existing accommodation places will be renovated and 7,600 new places will be built by the end of 2025. I believe that real estate issues are at the heart of the military condition, and this subject will receive my full attention in the years to come. In addition, EUR 81 million will be spent on the family plan to continue to open day care spaces, offer wi-fi and offer sports facilities. Finally, on the human side, the 2021 finance bill proposes an ambitious job plan, with an increase of 300 FTEs. These new positions will address the needs of the armed forces in key areas for present and future conflicts, particularly in intelligence and cyber defence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the appropriations for the Defence Mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u479	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u480	The "Veterans, Memory and Relations with the Nation" mission, of which I am the Special Rapporteur, funds recognition for the fighting world, policies to strengthen the link between the army and the nation, and compensation for the victims of anti-Semitic persecution and barbarism committed during the Second World War. First of all, I would like to welcome some progress on youth, including the satisfactory increase in the target of incorporating voluntary military service. On the other hand, spending on memory policy is increasing significantly. This increase mainly benefits the development and renovation of the war graves and the high places of national memory in France – I am thinking in particular of the concentration camp in Struthof – in Algeria and Morocco. I can only welcome this important effort to keep these places of transmission in a decent state. However, again this year, the Mission's appropriations are down about 3%. They are now less than EUR 2.1 billion. If this fall is partly the result of the decrease in the number of beneficiaries of the fighter's pension and the military disability pension, the savings achieved should have been used, even partially, to strengthen action in favour of the fighting world. I regret that this is not the case. The disappointment is all the greater as the fighting world was hard hit by the health crisis in 2020, on the one hand because those who make it live are often people of a certain age, on the other hand because the prolonged cancellation of traditional commemorations – out of digital format or in small groups – has put a brutal stop to the transmission work carried out by veterans and has removed essential moments of social life. For 2021, even more so than before, the expectations of veterans and their families are strong and legitimate: the only measure of upgrading planned this year is the lowering of the disability threshold necessary to obtain an increase in the survivor's survivor's pension for a major war invalid. The scheme should not involve more than 197 people and its cost, probably overvalued since it assumes that any major war invalid would survive a spouse, will not exceed 1 million euros. This measure, which was expected, lacks ambition. I will therefore propose an appeal amendment to extend the number of its beneficiaries. I would add that this improvement alone cannot mask the weak commitment of the 2021 budget, particularly with regard to the veteran's retirement. While the last upgrade dates back to 2017 and the appropriations for this action are down by 15.5 million euros, it is not understandable that the small amount received each year by a veteran remains capped. I will therefore propose an amendment to increase it by an index point, at a cost of EUR 6 million less than the savings made on this action alone. I also note a rising claim that it would be desirable to proceed with. It relates to the additional half tax allocated to veterans and their widows. The extension of this half share to widows over 74 years of age of a beneficiary of the veteran's retirement who died before his seventy-fourth birthday, provided for by the Finance Act for 2020, will enter into force on 1 January 2021. However, widows whose husband holding the fighter's card died before the age of 65, i.e. before being able to benefit from the fighter's pension, will still not be able to claim this additional half share. This unequal treatment is not acceptable and it will be necessary, in keeping with the proposals I made last year, to eliminate the double penalty of surviving spouses of early missing veterans. Finally, while the funds of the National Office for Veterans and War Victims – ONAC-VG – are on the increase, this is only apparent after a year 2020 that had resulted in a large levy. In addition, the ONAC-VG's cash flow will this year contribute more than €2 million to the operations for harkis and returnees. Of course, the Agency's current reservations allow this, but its contribution cannot continue forever without having a detrimental effect on proximity to its nationals. Indeed, if the ONAC-VG reorganizes itself to adapt to the decline in the number of its nationals, it must maintain a satisfactory territorial grid and ensure a sufficient presence in its departmental branches. Its missions are still essential, as is the case with the pupils of the nation, whose number is unfortunately increasing as a result of the terrorist attacks which have hit the Republic for several years, and which have hit it very recently. For all these reasons, and despite the favourable opinion of the Finance Committee, I have reservations about the adoption of the unambitious budget of the mission "Veterans, memory and ties with the nation" in the terms of the 2021 finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u481	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u482	Mrs Sandra Boëlle, alternate, Mr Guy Teissier, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u483	I represent my colleague Guy Teissier, who has been prevented, and whose report I am reading here. In these uncertain times, the defence budget is characterized by its predictability, the cause of which is to be found in accordance with the trajectory set by the military programming law, which runs until 2025. In 2021, an additional €1.7 billion will be allocated to the defence budget, which will be increased to €39.2 billion. The upsurge of our armies continues: when one perceives the trend towards instability and the rearmament of the world, everyone will agree that this is a necessity. Allow me to congratulate all of our armed forces for their outstanding work, both on national soil and in the context of the external missions assigned to them. I would like, again this year, to express my gratitude to the Armed Forces Health Service – SSA – whose value we already knew in OPEX and whose contribution we have learned, through its contribution to the fight against the epidemic, the value on the national territory. The SSA is now energized: after losing 10% of its staff in five years, the service struggles to stop the bleeding. Minister, the SSA's ability to recruit and retain must be one of your priorities. The predictability of the budget may be a quality, but in this case it is its main flaw. Indeed, as presented to us, the budget does not deal with the consequences of the health crisis on the defence industry. However, it is not a small shock that we are talking about: how many SMEs on which the whole defence fabric is based today are in a critical cash flow situation, with no prospect of improving the situation? Minister, I am telling you, as I said to the Prime Minister in the same Chamber: defence is the great forgotten of the recovery plan. No, defence will not benefit from the recovery plan, or only at the margin. No, the military programming law is not in itself a stimulus plan because, developed in 2018, it was unable to integrate such a crisis into its forecasts. Without recovery measures, we are at risk of a profound and perhaps irreversible weakening of our defence industry. I would remind you that the defence industry is not an industry like any other: it is the very guarantee of our sovereignty, it is intensive in manpower and advanced technologies. It is an example for those who, in the aftermath of the health crisis, want to build strategic autonomy in new areas. As a result of this autonomy, each euro invested in defence directly feeds activity and employment in France, in all territories, instead of being lost in complex international chains. Undoubtedly, an opportunity has been missed. Finally, I would like to say a word about support for arms exports, whose strengthening is one of the priorities of the military programming law. While France has achieved great success in exporting in recent years, our position on external markets is far from guaranteed. In an area as strategic as armaments, competition is fierce, including between allies, and an increasing number of states are developing a defence industry capable of exporting or strengthening their export support. In such a context, remaining inactive would be tantamount to accepting our downgrading from the rank of a major arms exporter. We therefore need to consolidate our policy of supporting large exports by developing more broadly government-to-government contracts that respond to growing demand from client states. The CaMo contract – motorized capacity – with Belgium, is a great success that calls for others. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] At the same time, we need to reduce the export support missions that are weighing on the armies, which are already struggling to fulfil a very ambitious operational contract. Madam Minister, you have announced twelve new fighter planes to compensate for the Greek order of eighteen Rafale: will you do the same if the export prospects take place in Switzerland, Croatia or Finland? Let us not misunderstand: if we are to rejoice at the purchase by our European partners of French and European materials, we must find the means to ensure that export support does not take place at the expense of the ability of the armies to carry out their primary mission: the defence of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u484	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u485	The programme 144 "Environment and foresight of defence policy" of the Defence mission of the draft finance bill for 2021, which I had the honour of being appointed this year draftsman, has the role of preparing for the future, supporting France's innovation effort and contributing to the development of its industrial and technological defence base. To teach about the present and future environment, to prepare the weapons systems of tomorrow and the protections against opposing weapons, to identify geostrategic changes, to contribute to the maintenance of research and a defence industry at the highest level, to train engineers: these are the objectives of this programme which, you will have understood, is resolutely oriented towards the future. For the third year in a row, and in full compliance with the military programming law 2019-2025, the appropriations for the 144 program are on the increase, which I welcome. The programme's budget increases by approximately EUR 1.3 billion in commitment authorisations and by EUR 137 million in payment appropriations, an increase of 76% in commitment authorisations to EUR 3.1 billion and by 9% in payment appropriations to EUR 1.7 billion. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to two highlights of Program 144 of this 2021 Finance Bill, namely the funds allocated to the Directorate General of External Security – DGSE – on the one hand, and those allocated to upstream studies on the other. DGSE's appropriations show a very sharp increase over last year, by almost 310 % in commitment authorisations, bringing them to around EUR 1.5 billion, and by 11.4 % in payment appropriations, bringing them to about EUR 388 million. I welcome this choice, which will allow DGSE to continue its actions in accordance with the provisions of the Military Programming Act; The burning news tragically confirms their relevance. In particular, this increase will enable the DGSE to continue its strategy of strengthening, in order to better anticipate and adapt to technological developments. It will also allow him to take a new stage in his real estate renovation program. With regard to upstream studies, the path of steady progression of payment appropriations up to the target amount of EUR 1 billion in 2022, foreseen in the LPM, is respected. Appropriations for upstream studies amount to €1.2 billion in commitment authorisations and €901 million in payment appropriations. I also welcome the doubling of the Definvest fund for strategic enterprises to EUR 100 million and the creation of the Definnov fund for the financing of innovative dual SMEs to EUR 200 million. Fortunately, the crisis of the covid-19 did not have a significant impact on the 144 program, except, to a relative extent, for the École Polytechnique and the Office national d'études et de recherches aerospacees – ONERA. I will pay particular attention to the development of their financial situation next year. In view of the outbreak of the health crisis, I have chosen to devote the thematic part of my report to strategic foresight. I make several recommendations in this regard so that the Ministry of Armed Forces can better anticipate crises, while being aware of the difficulties of the exercise. To this end, the Ministry of Armed Forces should, in particular, draw closer to European actors in the foresight, both the institutions of the European Union and the research centres of its Member States. It should also prioritize the risks identified in the 2017 Strategic Review of Defence and National Security and participate, together with others, in matching these risks with concrete public policy solutions to help decision-making. Finally, inter-ministerial training exercises involving all actors, both public and private, likely to be affected by such risks should be further encouraged. The 144 budget is fully in line with the recovery strategy developed in the MPA. The same applies to the budget for the Defence Mission, which I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u486	The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-30-O1051.u487	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one hours: Further to the discussion of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Further to the review of appropriations for the Defence and Veterans Affairs missions, memory and relationship with the nation. The meeting is adjourned.
