ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the second part of the finance bill for 2021 (No. 3360, 3399).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began its examination of the appropriations relating to the cohesion of the territories. I call Mrs Stéphanie Do, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u3	For 20 per cent of the most modest households, housing expenditure accounts for almost a quarter of total expenditure. About 4 million people do not have personal housing or are in very poor housing. More than 12 million people are vulnerable, i.e. they live in a situation of moderate overcrowding, in condominiums in difficulty or have unpaid rents. This situation has worsened with the health crisis. The four reports for opinions on housing credits that I have written since 2017 have all aimed at the same objective, that of improving our housing policy by setting a priority: modest households. The first part of my report is dedicated to the means to be implemented so that everyone can benefit from housing. This translates into incentives for construction – we need to build more and better, including social and intermediate housing. This includes aid to the construction industry, which we must support as they struggle to overcome the current health crisis and its consequences. When considering this finance bill, we must pay particular attention to addressing the shortcomings of the stimulus plan for the production of new housing, particularly social and intermediate housing. There must be a clear signal of support for both home ownership and real estate production. In this sense, I will propose by way of an amendment to extend the Pinel scheme, the zero-rate loan, to restore personalized housing assistance – APL – accession and to introduce a posteriori approval. The aim is to relaunch not only the production of new housing, but in particular that of intermediate housing, which should not be relegated to a second zone because of excessive delays in approval. It also involves supporting fragile tenants, in a context where many of our fellow citizens have lost all or part of their sources of income. The amount of unpaid payments continues to increase in France: as of 14 September 2020, it was 100 million euros higher than in September 2019. I know that the State has provided for accompanying measures, including an increase in LPAs of EUR 439 million. However, given the scale of the health crisis, this budgetary effort may not be sufficient. Everyone in France must have a dwelling; it is a question of solidarity; Everyone must also enjoy an urban and welcoming environment, especially during this period of containment. That is why I have tabled an amendment to restore the appropriations for urban renewal to their initial level of 2020. Finally, we must do more to accommodate vulnerable populations and combat homelessness. I welcome the action of the Deputy Minister for Housing, who has made it possible to maintain 14,000 additional places of accommodation, to create new places of accommodation under the five-year housing plan first, and has announced an additional €10 million over two years to "enhance the improvement of the quality of humanisation of housing centres". The second part of my report deals with energy renewal. I welcome the Government's decision, in its stimulus plan, to launch an unprecedented movement in support of energy renewal. This is a pillar of the ecological transaction, but also an absolutely vital support for the building and housing economy. That is why I have taken care to deliver numerous opinions on the appropriations allocated for the energy renovation of housing, but also to put forward proposals, in particular the extension of certain "help" schemes which allow for the renovation by gesture very much appreciated by individuals. In order to ensure that the renovation works are successful and to combat fraud, I will defend an amendment aimed at generalising the controls on energy renovations ex post. Finally, I have started a reflection on a possible reform of Housing Action and the involvement of employers in the construction effort, the PEEC. The draft finance law makes a levy of 1.3 billion euros from the cash flow of Action logement. I believe, however, that it is not in the midst of a historic crisis that we must carry out such a reform. We must not damage an actor, Action logement, who is at the heart of the housing economy; during the crisis, it was one of the most active drivers of the sector's continuity. Nor should we damage a resource, the PEEC, which plays a valuable role in driving construction in France. I conclude by welcoming the commitment, during the crisis, of all the actors in housing, who have shown good will and collective spirit. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I give a favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations for housing, which are increasing this year, within the mission "Cohesion of the territories".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u4	Mr David Corceiro, alternate Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u5	I am speaking here on behalf of Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, who gave an opinion in favour of adopting the appropriations for the Cohesion of the Territories mission. In recent months, the population of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's politics has experienced, even more so than the majority of the French, extraordinary and particularly difficult circumstances. Socio-economic inequalities, including the digital divide, have been strongly revealed; They have increased the risk of dropping out of school for children and adolescents. In order to meet these exceptional needs arising from the unprecedented circumstances we face, the Government has significantly increased the funding available. The 2021 Finance Bill continues these efforts and this total commitment. As a result, the appropriations for Program 147 are increasing by 10 per cent. Let's talk about education first. In 2020, the Government demonstrated its determination not to leave any student in a situation of dropout. More than 100 million euros have been released during the year to deal with the educational difficulties caused by confinement in these neighbourhoods. I will cite the example of the "Summer Quarters" plan, which ensured educational continuity during the summer and fall. The "learning holiday" operation allowed a large number of young people in the neighbourhoods to go to a holiday camp. The 2021 Finance Bill also provides for the doubling of the number of "educational cities". An effort has also been made on employment. The current crisis has aggravated the economic fragility of neighbourhood dwellers, especially young people. To support them, the Government is organizing the massification of the "adult relay" scheme, with an increase in appropriations of more than 10 per cent. Similarly, the funding of establishments for integration into employment, which carry out valuable work, is increased by 10 %. It is also important to highlight the exceptional mobilisation of funding for the voluntary sector, which played a key role in the crisis. A fund called "solidary neighbourhoods" was created and abounded with €20 million to enable prefects to cope with the events of the end of 2020. The duplication of the CP and CE1 classes continues to be a great success, which justifies the extension of this measure to the major kindergarten classes in these same neighbourhoods. Investment in improving the security of these neighbourhoods is also continuing. In the context of his budget opinion, Mr Lagleize also carried out work on social mix in the priority areas of city policy. Although social mix is a key objective of the city's policy, there is still considerable uncertainty as to how best to achieve this. Efforts in this area since the 2000s have not yet been fully completed. Since the national mobilization launched by the President of the Republic in 2018, we are trying to systematically improve housing, employment, cultural facilities, access to public services and, above all, security. All these factors must be brought together to contribute to a lasting improvement in the image of these neighbourhoods. It is only at this price that a true mix can be established. We must also get rid of the negative image we can have of these neighbourhoods, sometimes pointed out. Our goal must be to allow people to flourish in neighbourhoods where all aspects of life have improved. We must at all costs avoid continuing the sedimentation of the populations of our cities, which turns certain neighbourhoods into poor ghettos, while other places become rich ghettos. The city's policy exists precisely to combat this phenomenon. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I will conclude by associating myself with Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize and my colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs to welcome the Government's mobilization in favour of priority neighbourhoods. Nor do I forget the action of communities and associations at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u6	I call Mrs Pitollat, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u7	For the first time this year, the Committee on Social Affairs has taken up the appropriations for housing for its opinion. These homes, the French spent a lot of time there in the spring because of confinement, and the phenomenon now reproduces with the second wave of the epidemic. At the end of my analysis, I give a favourable opinion on the adoption of the appropriations for programmes 177, 109 and 135 of the Cohesion of the Territories mission. The Committee on Social Affairs has also voted in favour of this. I will give you a few observations that I was able to make during the hearings and the work carried out this autumn. If credit increases and many people have left the streets in recent years, the right to housing, which is fundamental, is unfortunately still too partially implemented. This is evidenced by the situations of people who remain on the streets for a long time, who live under a precarious roof or in unworthy housing. I have dealt in my report with the issue of emergency accommodation and the issue of unworthy housing. To be more effective, housing and housing policies must be implemented in a comprehensive and open-ended manner. Coordination of efforts is needed to ensure more stability for homeless or poorly housed people. Of course, the issue of accommodation must be considered in the difficult context of 2020. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work done by all actors since the beginning of the crisis. More than 30,000 new accommodation spaces have been created. Social monitoring services have been able to respond to an increasing number of demands. Service cheques were allocated to 110,000 people to replace the distribution of food aid. However, needs persist and accommodation conditions are improving too slowly. Here are some examples. The average length of stay in emergency accommodation facilities is around thirteen months. This should be reduced in favour of faster integration into sustainable housing. Housing policy must be pursued first. I welcome the forthcoming efforts to create family pensions and rental intermediation housing. In order to increase the chances that a person will stay in the house and thus avoid any return to the street, it is necessary to customize the accompaniment as much as possible. The latter may be psychological, economic or social, but it must be individualized because each person has different needs. With regard to those who are not lucky enough to have access to housing, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the importance of the housing service. Receiving mail is the condition of access to the law and the quest for autonomy; That is why the Committee on Social Affairs has adopted an amendment to create a budget line dedicated to housing. I will propose to you again tonight this allocation of appropriations. Secondly, the maintenance of decent housing and the fight against unworthy housing. I am elected in a department particularly affected by this scourge, where the collapse of a building on Rue d'Aubagne in Marseille claimed eight victims on November 5, 2018. In the aftermath of the second anniversary of this tragedy, we must continue our tireless efforts. We must redo the fight against unworthy habitat and make it a priority. This requires improving information to the occupants in order to combat the non-use of rights. We must encourage rental experiments, such as the lease permit, already in place in several cities. We must use all the available legal arsenal to enforce sanctions against owners. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The implementation of the right to housing is the first condition for reducing social inequalities and ensuring integration into society. Without stable housing, access to employment was compromised, the education of children was more than difficult and health was at risk. Efforts must therefore be made not only to provide emergency housing but, above all, to provide sustainable housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u8	We now hear the spokespersons of the groups. Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u9	It is far and yet so close, this time when General de Gaulle, astonished by the expression "territory of the region" used in the referendum project that was presented to him and retorted in one of his formulas derived from his intimate and long association with our old country: "A region has no territory, only the Nation has one"! However, it is the appropriations of the "Cohesion of Territories" mission that we are looking at today. Their aim is to reduce all fractures within and between our territories and to guarantee their solidarity with the entire national territory. The mayors who hold their towns and villages standing at the heart of this severe health crisis know too much about the urgent need for housing in our country – housing adapted to all the circumstances of life. They know how valuable the aids and incentives for energy renewal are in a country where 7 million French people live poorly isolated. A few days ago, a lady told me how much her elderly aunt feared the prospect of winter that forced her to choose between eating and heating – remember! I would like to commend the Government's important effort to correct this terrible situation, including the unprecedented strengthening of the MaPrimeRenov' system. I am also thinking of the thousands of families whose houses built on clay soils are irretrievably deteriorating as a result of the recurring hazards of a deregulated climate. Without the recognition of their communes in a state of natural disaster, they struggle to obtain from insurance companies the compensation necessary to finance the necessary comfort work. Some have lost everything, as building disorders have rendered their habitat totally unsanitary. Here again, the mayors are in front of people who only have their eyes to cry over the cracks barring the facades of their houses, the fruit of their labor and their savings! Thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, for strengthening the prevention and education of natural hazards, and for making sure that building standards are better adapted to local climatic hazards, but we still need to make progress on some aspects of compensation, the model of which is out of sight: we need to review the criteria urgently. It is a question of national solidarity but also of revival, because by facilitating the compensation of claims, we give the green light to many comfort sites and therefore to local employment, so precious in these uncertain times! This mission also encompasses the city's policy, which must make it possible to reconcile millions of citizens with their places of life. I can testify to the power of the ANRU – Agence nationale pour la rénovation urbaine – on the most important site north of Paris, in the Burgundy district of Tourcoing. This allows hundreds of cities such as Tourcoing and Châlons-en-Champagne to renew themselves, to meet the challenges of a young population that lives well below the poverty line and demands new services. The comfort and well-being of families in ecological housing is improved and their tranquillity is maintained. We reconquer entire neighbourhoods, now lost, and their citizens, all those who feel they are relegated to the periphery and who do not feel like they are making a city – and in doing so to make nation. In other words, these actions are pride that has been restored! On the other hand, many projects are largely funded by a tool born in the north in 1943, now known as Housing Action. I know you, Madam Deputy Minister, listening to the worrying signals sent over the last few weeks about the new €1.3 billion allocation in the budget of this body, which facilitates access to housing and promotes employment, and a reform project that would empty the substance of it. The territories know all that they owe to the quality of these actors at the service of the employment-housing bond, and the former mayor I am grateful to them! The funds for this mission are also used to finance numerous schemes aimed at revitalizing small and medium-sized cities, such as "Action coeur de ville". The creation of France Services houses makes it possible to bring the services closer to the inhabitants of all the territories and to adapt to the needs of each; It's a real progress. We welcome the strengthening of these appropriations, which are necessary to bring about new territorial dynamics. We know that these territories suffer from the health and economic crisis and we will be able to act together with you to support them! [[Applause on the benches of the groups Action ens, LaREM, Dem and IDU-I]] The mission therefore has several ambitions: greater cohesion in the planning of the territories, confidence in the local authorities, a tailored response to the needs of each territory. It also makes the ecological transition a central hub. For all these reasons, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of these appropriations!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u10	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u11	The cohesion of the territories probably requires even more attention this year, as we go through the second wave of an unprecedented health crisis. Some territories have been able to adapt and find solutions from the first wave, thus in many cases making up for the absences of the State; Others are experiencing disparities – digital, access to care, and service – that have become even more striking with the crisis. Not all territories are housed in the same house, as the crisis has hard reminded them. One inequality by driving another, how many students have been seen, for example, struggling to take distance courses because of lack of access to the Internet? It is not conceivable that in 2020, France will take the risk of an educational divide due to a lack of network. Nevertheless, we know that the territories are still going to mobilize to best meet the expectations of our fellow citizens in the coming months of crisis, and with the means on the board. It is at the prism of this year so singular that we must examine the appropriations of the mission "Cohesion of the territories". With slightly increasing appropriations and more than a third of the aid in the recovery plan for the territories, we can hope for progress. A number of measures support us in this hope: the renewal of the local investment support endowments – the DSIL, the local investment support endowment, the DETR, the rural land capital endowment, the DSID, the departmental investment support endowment, and the DVV, the city's political endowment – the stabilization of the DGF – the overall operating endowment – the extension of the ZRR – rural revitalization zones – for two years, the Habiter programme, and the objective of creating a France Services house per canton by 2022. Having installed two public service houses in the Northern Department when I was vice-president, I can testify to their valuable contribution, but I regret that they are the result of the departure of many organizations and administrations from rural territories. The focus on support for emergency accommodation is added to this list. Nevertheless, Madam Minister Delegate, all these measures are tarnished by several factors. To begin with, too many uncertainties remain in the minds of many players, in times of crisis, to allow them to invest tomorrow. Indeed, several arrangements depend on the recovery plan, which will not be implemented more than 2022. In addition, some measures will only be effective with substantive changes. I am thinking, for example, of the speeding-up that you want to give to the energy renovation of housing without making any progress on the issue of regulatory simplifications, which the actors in the building industry are asking for. Another area of concern is the territorialization of the recovery plan. Many elected officials feel that you cut their wings financially, with the 10 billion drop in production taxes. This measure is certainly necessary, but it is not up to it, contrary to what you say. At the same time, there is the question of differentiation, since not all territories will have the same ability to quickly submit completed projects, with the risk that those with the most important technical means will be privileged. I come to the operation of the Territorial Cohesion Agency, which, according to a recent Senate report, seems to need to be improved, particularly in the field of tailor-made engineering, in order to create projects in line with the needs of the territories. The IDU and independent group has always been a strong supporter of this agency. We therefore welcome the strengthening of its capacity, but we will be attentive to the follow-up to senators' recommendations. On the other hand, I would like to be certain that the selection of the cities of the new Small Cities of Tomorrow program will be made according to criteria more relevant than those used for the Action cour de ville operation, which left aside the cities of 10,000 to 20,000 inhabitants whose downtown trade was in arrears. In addition, parliamentarians are not involved in the choice of cities. With regard to the €622 million allocated to digital technology in order to achieve the goal of very high broadband for all by 2022, we remain cautious after the accumulated delays, even if we are very keen to believe in them. I will finally mention the APLs, whose credits have fallen sharply since 2017 at the expense of social donors. The contemporaneity expected since 2019 will be effective from 1 January 2021. This is a step forward but it happens a little late because, with the crisis, the expected savings will be reduced to the skin of grief. In addition, to feed these APLs, you do not hesitate to punctuate 1 billion on the budget of Action logement, yet a major player in social housing. Look for the mistake! You are a serious blow to the building, to the social donors and to all those who want to access the property or to develop their housing. The cohesion of our territories needs more than ever stability and a long-term policy, Madam Deputy Minister, as well as genuine decentralization. Will we ever see her?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u12	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u13	The "Cohesion of Territories" mission contains two beautiful ambitions, both of which are at the heart of my political commitment. The first is to promote access to decent housing for all citizens and to accompany residential routes. The second is to reduce the multiple fractures that cross our country. With regard to housing, first of all, you have made an important and ambitious effort, as part of the recovery plan, – we welcome it – towards energy renewal. The amount allocated is substantial. This is a step forward that we have been asking for for for some time. On the other hand, the revival of construction in the nine remains incomplete and it is for the actors in the sector as for me a real incomprehension, Madam Minister Delegate. Unsurprisingly, the municipal elections and the covid-19 epidemic stopped construction sites in the second half of 2020. Despite a rebound last September, the construction sector is prognosising a decline in the activity of new housing by 23% in 2020 compared to 2019. However, these worrying figures do not relate exclusively to the economic situation. They are part of an overall downward trend in construction figures since the beginning of the quinquennium. In mid-2017, over 12 months, 500,000 building permits were granted, of which 300,000 were in the collective sector. By mid-2020, still over 12 months, these levels were down to 400000 and 240000 respectively. This, in our view, is the result of a lack of strategic vision in your housing policy – for the new, we agree, because we do not have any particular criticism to make with regard to renovation. First of all, you have made a set of decisions affecting the tools of home ownership; I am thinking of the abolition of the APL accession in 2017 but also of the reduction of the quota of the zero-rate loan – PTZ – in zones B and C. As for the Pinel system, we are still waiting for your modernization proposals, even though you announced the sustainability of the PTZ and the Pinel system in 2022. It's good news, but we need to go further. As far as social housing is concerned, the decrease in the amount of APL and the reduction of solidarity rent, or RLS, although tempered by the investment pact, still weighs 1.3 billion euros on the finances of social donors. As for the Government's decision to re-introduce the Housing Action treasury with a new charge of €1 billion and possibly a second one, it is also regrettable. Ultimately, it is the investment capacities of social housing players that you are attacking. It would be time for the new construction, hidden since 2017 and ignored by the recovery plan, to be placed at the centre of public policies, otherwise we will eventually expose ourselves to a serious housing shortage and a deep economic crisis in the sector. Housing – we can attest to this because we have also made mistakes in this area under the previous legislature – represents between one and two growth points in a legislature. Failure to revive housing will have dramatic and global economic consequences. It is on this crucial issue that we still fear an increase in the difficulties of payment of rents and an increased demand for accommodation. I am therefore convinced of the need to abound the housing solidarity fund accordingly, so that it can cope with a significant increase in recourse which will, we are convinced, be the consequence of the crisis of the covid-19. I have no particular criticism of your city policy. The credits are there, they are renewed; While the President of the Republic announced last month a major plan to combat "separatism", and the introduction of a bill, this draft budget does not give him any budgetary translation. How will this great plan, of which we have all welcomed the announcement and which is, the news shows, fundamental for the future of our country, be financed? Will there be specific actions? There is nothing about this in this finance bill. A final word, finally, on spatial planning. I welcome the increase in the appropriations allocated to it. The National Agency for Territorial Cohesion – ANCT – for example, receives a slight increase in its appropriations, but the question arises as to whether its budget of 60 million will be sufficient to finance its rise in power. Similarly, France Services houses benefit from increased resources – 28 million euros more than in 2020, but again one may wonder whether this will be enough to ensure development, which all local actors consider necessary to compensate for the closure of public services. The fate which the Government and the majority will reserve for our amendments, particularly those of my colleague Jean-Félix Acquaviva on Corsica, will determine our vote on this budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u14	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u15	According to the study on the state of poverty in France published at the beginning of the year by the Secours populaire, one in three Frenchmen said that they had seen their income decline since the beginning of the confinement. In June, Unédic estimated that by the end of the year, 900000 jobs would have been destroyed; The current health situation suggests that this figure should be revised upwards. In addition, more than 1 million people live below the poverty line in our country and 8 million are seeking food aid. This difficult daily life is accompanied by serious concerns for the future of children. In the current context, where the majority of the population is experiencing both a health, social and economic crisis, the Government is not up to the challenges, particularly with regard to the most vulnerable populations. Thus, only 0.8% of the credits in your recovery plan are for the most vulnerable people. The improvement of the most fragile living conditions requires strong measures, particularly in the area of housing, which is a key sector in the fight against poverty. Housing with dignity is essential for the entire population, especially for the most vulnerable groups. The proposed measures do not go in this direction. Thus, you will postpone the calculation of APLs to 2021 in real time, which saves you 2 billion euros. Since 2017, HLM's revenues have been heavily tapped: $800 million in 2018, $900 million in 2019 and $1.3 billion in 2020. As far as Housing Action is concerned, last year the State had already allocated 500 million euros, which have abounded in the 2020 budget. To abound the 2021 budget, it was already planned to draw 1 billion euros from its treasury, to which we must add today 300,000 euros, the amount of compensatory aid promised two years ago and which will ultimately not be paid to it, i.e. 1.3 billion savings made on the back of this major actor in social housing. Nor should we forget the increase in VAT, from 5.5% to 10%, which represents an additional cost of 700 million euros in 2018 and 850 million euros in 2019. These measures thus deplete the financial resources of HLM organizations, which led to the collapse of the construction of social housing. In order to cope with this planned impoverishment, these organizations were forced, according to the financial study published by the Bank of the Territories in September, to lean on the maintenance of the buildings, reducing the cost of major repairs by 7 per cent. Above all, they have had to reduce their production of new housing, which is expected to be no more than 100,000 approvals this year, compared to 120,000 in 2016, while more than 2 million households are waiting to receive HLM housing. Over the next four years, more than 170,000 homes have not come out of the ground. The Caisse des dépôts et consignations itself anticipates that by 2035 the construction of social housing will fall by 600,000 per year. The shock of the offer mentioned by Emmanuel Macron is reflected in more private investment, and above all in the impoverishment of tenants and the abandonment of social housing. German Chancellor Angela Merkel announced last year a massive plan of €5.7 billion over three years to build affordable housing. In the United Kingdom, Theresa May has put £2 billion a year on the table to boost social housing. Your policy is ultimately less social than that of the British Conservatives and German Christian Democrats. I cannot conclude my remarks without addressing the issue of the inadequacy of the resources devoted to thermal renewal and their unequal distribution. The construction sector is the first final energy consumer. To remedy this, one million housing units per year would have to be renovated to meet the "low-consumption" standards. Low-income tenants in the private sector are the most affected: 28% of them live in F or G-class dwellings. This energy precariousness affects more and more French people: 53% of them have reduced their heating consumption in order to limit the amount of their bill. There is no cohesion of the territories without strong measures. Considering that the account is not there, the group La France insoumise is not in favour of your project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u16	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u17	It is always a heartbreak for me to intervene on the housing budget, as my commitment in this area is old; Like that of François Pupponi and others without a doubt in this Chamber, he has largely founded my political commitment and my elected struggles. This budget for 2021 is the penultimate of the quinquennium, but we can already say that housing has been one of the most serious failures of this legislature. Candidate Macron's program did not contain any real reflection or ambition on the issue; Since you came to power in 2017, rather than listening to the actors, you have preferred to place your liberal analysis grid on this issue. It is true that you have been helped in this by the zeal of some Bercy officials who have long been burning to apply their preconceived schemes to this field. As a result, the construction of houses is in dungeon. It has been falling steadily in all sectors – in social housing as well as in home ownership, in the city and in the countryside, in the pavilion sector as well as in collective housing. The share of housing in the household budget has steadily increased, widening social inequalities, as all studies show. Fifteen million French people suffer from poor housing conditions. Moreover, ghettos, social separatism and social segregation are being strengthened; a real urban apartheid separating rich and poor is steadily worsening in some metropolises. All this is not your sole responsibility, of course: it comes from afar, but your policy has continued to degrade the situation and to amplify these phenomena. This is all the more regrettable given that our country had a remarkable specificity in this area which was the envy of many of our European partners: the mix of its economy, which advanced on a private leg and a public leg, combining long-term vision and short-term management, which gave it the ability to amortize crises and bounce back. You amputated the public leg by weakening HLM organizations, especially with the reduction of solidarity rents, which melted their investment capacity and contributed to the decline in housing construction. The French genius, born from a historical compromise between the employers, the workers' movement and the mutualist movement, had over the decades been able to build a housing policy capable of dealing with the most serious crises. I am thinking in particular of Abbé Pierre's appeal, of which we all remember.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u18	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u19	To all of this, you have preferred an "out-of-ground" model, the liberal logic of the "all-market", foreign to the history of our country. In doing so, you were acting absolutely against history, since wherever this model had been adopted, we are now turning our backs on it to return to state interventionism and increase public investment. At the same time as you were adopting the RLS scheme and the Law on Housing, Planning and Digital Development – ELAN – in Germany, Angela Merkel, who is not known for her Bolshevism, decided to invest 5 billion in public housing and set up a large social body responsible for the housing of civil servants. The same trend is observed in England and wherever the market had been given primacy. Your policy, both historical and negation of the history of our country, could only fail: the housing crisis has unfortunately only worsened. It is not only parliamentarians, it is all the actors in housing that are afflicted by your policy. When I meet them – like you, I imagine – they tell me that they do not understand your lack of listening or your inability to correct your mistakes. The recovery plan does not provide for housing, apart from the efforts that must be made for the ecological transition. We will have the opportunity to discuss this again when we consider the amendments, in particular with regard to the allocation of housing and housing action, which must be dealt with here in Parliament, not by order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u20	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u21	Supporting the territories in their diversity, reducing inequalities, improving the quality of life of our citizens wherever they live, trusting local elected officials are all strong commitments of our majority that have materialized in the creation in 2018 of a major ministry of territorial cohesion. The Mission's appropriations, which amount to almost EUR 16 billion in programme authorisations and EUR 16 billion in payment appropriations, are up to these objectives. In addition, this year, 7.2 billion credits under the Recovery Plan reflect our willingness to be with each of our fellow citizens to deal with the health and economic crisis that affects us. In 2021, the deployment of the various programmes will accelerate, notably Action cœur de ville, France very high speed, Territories of industry, Small cities of tomorrow, the recovery plan for the communities, rural contracts, or the contracts for the State-region plan – CPER. The National Territorial Cohesion Agency, which we have created, will provide technical support and financial support everywhere, especially to the most fragile sectors. We are convinced that our campaigns are territories of the future: never has a majority and a government invested so much in rural areas. For a long time, elected representatives have been calling for a specific policy for rural areas: we have done so, and we continue to invest. First of all, Act II of the Rural Agenda will mobilise €20 million. This very ambitious and concrete programme aims to improve daily life in our countryside, through support for the economy, employment and training, the energy transition, the presence of public services, access to care and trade. In this regard, I wish, Madam Minister Delegate, Mr Secretary of State, to draw your attention to the dismay of the traders and independents of our rural territories, who have had to lower their curtains, while we are doing so much for our city centres and our town centres, of which they are the beating heart. We absolutely must give them hope and take all the measures that will enable them to overcome this ordeal. We will continue the development of France Services spaces. During confinement, they are open and provide valuable support. For 2021, 28 million euros are allocated to them, 10 million euros more than in 2020, in order to make progress towards the creation of a France Services area per canton by 2022, including in the priority areas of city policy. Because we are not forgetting our neighbourhoods: in 2021, the appropriations of programme 147 are increased by 67 million euros, to reach 515 million euros for the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy. Territorialised appropriations amounting to EUR 250 million will finance the activities of the communities and associations. Educational cities, which are federative mechanisms for the success of all children, will receive EUR 100 million, or an additional EUR 17 million. Finally, under employment, an additional €10 million will be allocated to adult relay positions, which combine social mediation and vocational training. In the context of a crisis in our country, our actions in favour of housing, the integration of vulnerable people and housing will be strong. Thus, the new national urban renewal programme will double its funding, with state participation reaching EUR 1 billion. In addition, following the ELAN law and agreements with HLM companies, the production and renovation of social housing will accelerate. The aim is to start work in 300 neighbourhoods by the end of the year. Cranes must return: investment and public order must be encouraged and economic activity boosted. More than ever, our territories are at a crossroads. The recovery plan is unprecedented in scope, with EUR 100 billion dedicated to the social, economic, ecological and digital aspects of planning. Minister Delegate, Secretary of State, the budget for the "Cohesion of Territories" mission will support territorial initiatives and dynamics. It gives concrete expression to the determination of our majority to give everyone the same opportunity and to guarantee solidarity between generations, territories and all the French. The budget for the territorial cohesion mission is a responsible, fair and ambitious budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u22	Pfff...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u23	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The majority will vote in favour of it, and I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u24	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u25	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u26	Where are your friends?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u27	Housing in France is bad. Very bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u28	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u29	Even before the health crisis, what was your assessment? France was ironed under the 400,000 housing units produced per year. How can this be explained? The Government and the majority have halved the financial quota of the zero-rate loan in 95 per cent of France. As a result, a 37% decrease in PTZs and a real fall in home ownership, which penalizes our territories. My entire constituency is a victim. In addition, you have removed the APL accession. As a result, your housing policy has prevented 35,000 homes per year from accessing the property. You have also concentrated the benefit of the Pinel device on the hypercentres of the metropolises. The result is a fall in real estate investment. Again, my entire constituency is a victim, while municipalities such as Saint-Nicolas-de-Port or Dombasle-sur-Meurthe could legitimately claim it. By brutally reforming the APLs, you have destabilized the social donors. As a result, their investment plans have decreased – less construction and less rehabilitation of assisted housing. And this is likely to get worse with the requested contribution to Housing Action. The Denormandie device in the old one in the operations of revitalisation of territory – ORT –, as in Lunaville, struggle to deploy. The Small Cities of Tomorrow program, meanwhile, is waiting on the ground. Since then, however, there has been a long-term health crisis and the postponement of municipal and inter-municipal councils, thereby hampering the implementation of projects. The BTP is going badly and, behind it, jobs are being threatened. The companies in the territory often tell me about this, because the decline in the public order for public works will fall by half in Lorraine! Housing starts are falling – by 20% in Meurthe-et-Moselle over a year – and, even more worrying, permits are also falling – by 43%. Madam Deputy Minister, I'm firing the alarm bell tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u30	That's why you're alone. Not a single other member of your group!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u31	We need to re-launch the building, not just the renovation! The President of the Republic had made a promise: the renovation of 500,000 dwellings per year. It is not bound: we are only half of that goal. You ended up hearing us and expanding the MaPrimeRenov' device, but only lost time, while there are still more than 8 million victims of energy insecurity! Why are rural intercommunalities still deprived of planned habitat improvement operations? Madam Minister Delegate, I invite you to launch a major recovery plan for housing, whether it is individual or collective, whether it needs to be rehabilitated or built, whether it is in Paris or in the rest of France! It is not enough to extend the current arrangements by one year, as actors need visibility at least two years. Simple and effective mechanisms are needed, accessible to all territories. New housing, like our territories, remains the great forgotten of the recovery plan. Restore PTZ and APL accession as they existed before the end of 2017! All of France must be able to access it: a fragile demand must be supported by resolbilisating it. Extend the Pinel to areas B2 and C that warrant it; What is the status of the zoning reform? Why allow competition to continue within the same basins of life, such as the Greater Nancy metropolis, where the development of certain communes, like Laneuveville-devant-Nancy or Fléville-devant-Nancy, is penalized compared to others, due to different zonings? The State services must urgently form technical committees to monitor public procurement, involving all stakeholders. Also listen to the demand of the builders of the building, who plead for a shift in charges, a simplification of the RGE system – recognised as a guarantor of the environment –, a fluidisation of the EWC – certificates of energy savings –: this is about the survival of their companies. Also shorten the ban on visits to real estate: it is a decisive element in the real estate chain. Without this, you will create difficulties for French people wishing to find or, for various reasons, change housing. Beyond housing, this budget mission deals with the cohesion of the territories. Mr. Secretary of State, the reasons for dissatisfaction persist.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u32	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u33	The deployment of mobile coverage is still pending. Many communes in my constituency are still not affected by the programming, and the number of sites selected per department is not enough to achieve your objectives: are you going to correct the shooting? In addition, we ask you to extend the rural revitalization zones beyond 2020 for a period of two years. When are you going to do that? Finally, are you going to deploy the system of free jobs in the regions that are in arrears and are experiencing unemployment above the national average, such as the Lunevillo basin? [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Madam Minister Delegate, Secretary of State, for a more equitable planning of the territory and more social cohesion, will you take up these proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u34	You see, we're here to applaud, because you're a little alone on the benches of your band!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u35	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u36	As you know, the budget for the "Cohesion of Territories" mission is, each year, a strong focus of the finance bill. For 2021 we see a slight increase in its appropriations, which we can only rejoice at as much as the territories have been and are still being asked for in the ongoing management of the health and economic crisis. Once the virus has been brought under control, they will once again be on the front line to deal with the many economic and social difficulties arising from successive crises: these challenges will have to unfold in a transversal way, while taking into account the diversity of the issues at stake in the different territories. And they are particularly numerous. This is, for example, the policy on access to housing and improvement of housing. It is also all about the deployment of digital and public services, to the most rural territories. It also involves the deployment of social policies, particularly for the most vulnerable. Secretary of State, I would therefore like to commend the Government's commitment to a territorialized recovery. The implementation of the recovery plan places local elected representatives at the heart of economic recovery, because they are well aware of the specificities of their territories: the deployment of funds and projects will therefore be carried out as closely as possible to the expectations of the field. The recovery will go first and foremost through the support of the elected representatives of the most fragile territories, thanks to the National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories. Created to simplify the access of local elected officials to state services, the ANC is sometimes criticized for its lack of readability. I agree with the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party, that its functioning remains to be improved in order to ensure optimum support for the communities, particularly in the engineering and assembly of their dossiers. I hope that local elected representatives, and therefore the territories, can be accompanied and supported as effectively as possible. Beyond personalized support and accessible to all, our territories need simple tools of use to develop their projects and strengthen their attractiveness. I would like to focus on two of the many mechanisms introduced by the Government. First of all, let me welcome the large-scale deployment of the France Services houses, which are installed to the closest of our fellow citizens to accompany them in their administrative efforts. The Government's objective of creating a France Services house per canton by 2022 will make it possible to bring public services closer to our citizens. My group has always supported the deployment of these structures, which represent the best way to manage the public service of proximity to the territories. Vital for some users – especially the older ones, who are often the most vulnerable too – it also allows to revitalize some sleeping city centres. However, I would like to draw your attention, Mr Secretary of State, to the practical aspect of these deployments. As some of the costs of these services are borne by local authorities, we must ensure that the accessibility of public services does not mean too much constraint for them. Finally, I would like to focus on the small cities of tomorrow. Piloted by the ANC and the prefects of the department, this project has funding of €3 billion over six years to take targeted measures, depending on the territory project and the actions to be taken. Here again, the challenge is to respond to the particular situation of the city centres and to encourage the emergence of structural projects within the wider framework of a territory. Like the Action cœur de ville programme, it serves to reaffirm and strengthen the attractiveness of the most landlocked territories. In my view, the challenge now is to perfect these mechanisms and ensure that they are adapted to each territory, but also to continue to combat the social divide, which is still very visible, as the disparities can be significant in different regions. [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, our small cities, our departments and our regions are once again real levers of action for public policies of economic recovery and ecological transition. In 2021 the budget maintained its commitment to all these territories, while taking into account their many specificities: that is why the Group of the European Democratic Movement and Related Democrats will vote for the appropriations allocated to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u37	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u38	We are gathered to discuss the "Cohesion of the Territories" mission, in which housing policy occupies a large part. Before we discuss some of the budget details, let's see what's happening to your strategic vision on this subject. For years, our country has been experiencing a phenomenon of population concentration and overt metropolization. This is the crucible of all the ills of our society: housing crisis, transport crisis, security crisis, and today, with the covid, health crisis in overcrowded areas. Rather than trying to deconcentrate the activities and thus the populations, you have made another choice: that of a shock of supply. You finally accompany this phenomenon of concentration, in an endless search for solutions to build more, higher, more concentrated, by trying to free up any land space. This is a strategic mistake because what our country needs is a demand shock on the territories. Your credits are therefore misused globally and do not solve in any way the evils recalled at the beginning of my speech. With regard to your budget proposals, between the numerous amending finance laws of the year, the "Relaunch Plan" mission and the present "Cohesion of the Territories" mission, it is difficult to have a comprehensive overview of the appropriations mobilised in 2020 and to compare them with the resources of the PLF for 2021. Housing construction has been stagnating in our country since 2017, and we believe that nothing in this budget will reverse the trend. While the 2015 budget had allowed for steady progress in this area, the figures have collapsed since you came to power. Yes, the figures are stubborn: the results are missing, your housing policy is a failure. It was predictable, however, when the measures taken by the Government and the majority were examined – they were recalled by my colleagues: the abolition of the accession LPA, the reduction of the PTZ and the Pinel scheme, the raising of certain VAT rates, including in social housing, and the reduction of solidarity rent, which had the mechanical effect of reducing the working capital of social donors. Worse still, the uncertainty associated with mergers of social housing organisations – as required by the ELAN law – blocks investment. After the social donors, you decide to attack another central player in the creation of housing, the famous Housing Action, formerly called 1% housing. For example, the 2021 finance bill provides for a € 1 billion levy from the Housing Action Working Capital Fund, in addition to the € 52 million reduction in its resources provided for in the fourth draft amending finance law for 2020, and the € 500 million levy already made in the original finance law. How do you want to create a supply shock by weakening all the actors in construction and housing supply? That's absurd. It is sufficient to observe the catastrophic figures of 2020 in terms of the issuance of building permits, to understand that, given the prolongation of the municipal election period and the epidemic of covid-19, a crisis in the building sector will be linked to the housing crisis. Personal housing assistance is declining as poverty increases. While housing is the basis of social progress, what promises of the future do you offer to the million of our fellow citizens who have come to the ranks of the 6.5 million French people who were already facing poverty? If only one third of this million people became eligible for LPAs, this would result in an additional expenditure of EUR 1 billion that would have to be included. Where are these credits? Regarding the energy renewal of housing and its essential ecological, social and economic stakes, the communication around MaPrimeRénov'is impressive, but the resources allocated – 2 billion euros in 2021-2022 – allow us just to return to the level of public aid to the private park of 2017. Even President Sarkozy had done better in 2009-2010, with the energy transition tax credit – ISCED – and its 2.5 billion euros. Where are the budgetary means to meet the ambition of carbon neutrality in 2050? However, we have offered you the climate premium, which aims to remove all obstacles to the initiation of energy works: it could allow to accompany the public from the audit of the housing to the completion of the works, in an approach of global and efficient renovation of the housing, and to finance the works with a lump sum grant first, synonymous with simplicity, and the rest to be financed by a reimbursable advance until the transfer of the property, sale or succession. With this device, there is nothing to care for, and nothing to pay for the occupant or lessor; All the boxes are checked to commit to success, but you have nothing to do with it. The Socialist and related group can therefore only reject your housing policy, if it exists...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u39	They're your friends!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u40	..., and he will vote against the appropriations of the mission "Cohesion of the territories".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u41	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u42	I am pleased to have the opportunity to present to you tonight the budget and ambitions of the Ministry of Housing. Housing is at the heart of our citizens' concerns, and the health crisis has shown how important it is to accompany this sector in order to enable everyone to live decently. The housing sector has been heavily pressured during the crisis and the State has wanted to be with it, as this budget shows. In order to cope with the crisis, extraordinary resources are being mobilised within the framework of conventional budgetary programmes such as recovery appropriations. The budgetary effort made within the framework of the Cohesion of the Territories mission is important. The resources allocated to the Ministry of Housing, amounting to €16.2 billion, are up 2.5% compared to 2020, and it also benefits from €7.5 billion through the France Recovery Plan. Three priorities drive my ministerial action on the basis of these means. First of all, I want to support a fairer and more supportive housing policy. In this period of crisis, the budget for personal housing assistance will be provided with an additional EUR 500 million to reach EUR 15.7 billion. The real-time reform of the APLs, effective as of 1 January 2021, will better support French people whose incomes have decreased during the crisis period. It is a countercyclical reform, relevant at the time of the crisis, a social justice reform whose application is particularly important in such a period. In addition, the Government is mobilizing unprecedented means to promote access to housing for homeless persons, whether they are on the street or sheltered. Since March, we have devoted exceptional resources to protecting people, and we are now starting again, in the context of the second confinement, by mobilizing all the necessary means. As a result of this exceptional year 2020, the PLF for 2021 provides the 177 programme with €2.2 billion, an additional €200 million compared to 2020. In concrete terms, this will make it possible to maintain 14,000 new places of accommodation and to recruit 150 additional people in the integrated reception and guidance services, in order to improve the care of homeless people. I would also like to confirm the Government's commitment to the Housing First Plan. The PLF provides the Ministry with the means to scale up its deployment through the financing of new accelerated implementation territories and through the strengthening of the financing of family pensions, thanks to a much-anticipated upgrading of the daily flat rate. As regards social housing, the production targets are maintained, in 2020 as in 2021, to the tune of 110,000 registered housing units, including 40000 PLAI housing units – financed by the integrated rental loan – based on the means implemented in the investment pact signed between the State and the social housing sector for the years 2020 to 2022. At this very moment, I am mobilizing all the stakeholders – social donors, communities and State instructors – to achieve this ambitious but crucial goal. I also wish to make an unprecedented effort to renovate housing. The France Relance plan provides almost €7 billion for energy renewal, including €2 billion for the thermal renovation of households, bringing the aid to households to €2.3 billion this year, as well as €4 billion for public buildings, €500 million for the rehabilitation of the social park and €200 million for investment aid for TPEs and SMEs. This is an unprecedented effort, which will enable us to achieve extremely ambitious objectives. In addition, my Ministry will maintain a high level of funding for ANAH, the national agency for the improvement of housing: a €650 million allocation will finance its interventions in the fight against energy insecurity but also against unworthy housing; It will also allow it to commit additional resources to the renovation of degraded condominiums, and to deploy new requalification operations of national interest. I am also fully committed to sustainable new construction. It is essential to support the revival of new construction, because we need more housing. We also need sustainable development and construction operations to combat the artificialisation of soils and urban sprawl. In the coming days, with the associations of elected representatives of the municipal bloc and construction professionals, I will sign a pact for the revival of sustainable construction, so that all actors will mobilize to reaffirm the collective will to build housing where the needs are. This pact will be supported by specific aid from France Relance: a first €350 million aid to communities for sustainable construction, and a fund that finances the recycling of urban and industrial wasteland to the tune of €300 million. The resources of public land and public development institutions are reinforced in this finance bill, so that these operators continue to drive and lead large-scale projects. Finally, as you know, the Government wishes to support the social partners in reforming the organisation and functioning of the Housing Action Group. Élisabeth Borne, Olivier Dussopt and I met yesterday with all the trade unions and employers' organisations concerned. As a result of this meeting, we decided to allow time for dialogue, and I would like to inform you that the Government will not table amendments on this matter in the context of the 2021 Finance Bill. Nevertheless, we remain firmly committed to reform and will promptly propose to Parliament, after consultation, the necessary legislation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Finally, I would point out that the future of the Pinel aids and the zero-rate loan will be discussed in the context of the review of non-attached items next week. I now leave the floor to my colleague Joël Giraud to present the remaining programmes of the Cohesion of the Territories mission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u43	The Secretary of State for Rural Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u44	How happy to see him again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u45	We find ourselves in an unprecedented context to examine the appropriations of the "Cohesion of Territories" mission. The territories are on the front line, both to manage the practical aspects of the crisis on the ground and to implement the recovery plan. My first words will be to pay tribute to the elected officials and officials who are mobilizing on the ground. The appropriations for territorial policies, in programmes 112, 147 and 162, were presented by the Special Rapporteur, Mr. Mohamed Laqhila, whom I thank for his excellent report. As you pointed out, Mr. Special Rapporteur, they represent only part of the State's spending on land use planning; This is even more true this year, given the "Relaunch Plan" mission. You mentioned in your report that you would have preferred that some of the appropriations be allocated directly to the "Cohesion of Territories" mission and not to the "Relaunch Plan" mission; This is a recurring debate in this PLF, and I understand that this question is being asked. But I would like to point out that, taking into account the credits for the recovery, the resources of the National Fund for Regional Planning and Development (FNADT) are up by 40%, and that is what is essential. They are increasing from €208 million to €291 million, an increase of €83 million in commitment authorisations. In particular, I note the doubling of appropriations dedicated to engineering, from 10 million euros to 20 million euros; This was the subject of a strong demand from the department during the budget negotiations. Often, for small communities, projects take time to materialize not because of funding difficulties but because of the lack of engineering – you have it again, Mr. Special Rapporteur, indicated in your work. We are acting in favour of fragile territories thanks in particular to the development of the France Services label and the strengthening of the interventions of the Agence nationale de la cohésion des territoires – a young agency, Mr Loiseau, which has just absorbed the Agence du numérique, which will allow us, Mr Bazin, to take an even more up-to-date look at the issues that articulate spatial and digital planning, which are an essential issue for rural life. The aim is also to deploy the rural agenda; I am responsible for its implementation and monitoring. It will be relaunched at the Interdepartmental Committee on Rural Affairs – the CIR – on 13 November. The priorities will be youth, including engineering, health, digital and mobility. We also support the two-year extension of all zoned arrangements, without exception, and in particular the rural revitalization areas, by retaining all the rights acquired since their creation, such as the provisions that had been provided for in the new intercommunal arrangements – the subject had been addressed in the presentation document of the PLF and, in the bench, in the discussions on the first part, by the rapporteur-general of the budget here. I have no doubt that the Government's amendment – which is well in line, Mr Bazin, I invite you to consult it – will receive the unanimity of your assembly. I thank the draftsman Guillaume Garot for his report – I share some observations with him. If he had been there, I could have reassured him on one point: we will ensure that the credits for the recovery, which will be driven by the ANC, arrive well where they are planned. In my capacity as Secretary of State for Rural Development, I will pay particular attention to the fact that the rural agenda will receive the €20 million allocated to it over two years. The Small Cities of Tomorrow program, which I launched last month with Jacqueline Gourault, was quoted by many parliamentarians here, and I am grateful to them. This is indeed one of the flagship measures of the rural agenda, which aims to strengthen the centrality role of small municipalities. We will spend €3 billion on this over six years. In this respect, I would like to reassure Mr Guy Bricout: since there is no floor, the town centres in difficulty and with a centrality function will be able to benefit from this programme, whatever their size. We have also provided for the possibility of a joint application of several communes within the same intercommunality, so that the former cantons are actually represented in these important rural issues. The Government also wants to strengthen the cohesion of all the territories and to take better account of all the inhabitants, in particular those of the priority neighbourhoods, where the Republic must more than ever ensure, as the President of the Republic has repeated, that it fulfils its promise of justice and equality. The €46 million increase in the budget for programme 147, devoted to city policy, also reflects a commitment in this area. My colleague Nadia Hai, the city's deputy minister, will lead this action, whose main objectives are to reduce social and territorial divides, to promote employment and occupational integration, to encourage the school ambition and development of each young person, and to intensify the dynamics of urban renewal. The Government was mobilized to address the economic and social consequences of the crisis in neighbourhoods. Some EUR 10 million will be spent on the creation of 1500 additional adult relay posts for better networking of social mediation in the territories. The Ministry of the City will invest €4 million in strengthening institutions for integration into employment – EPIDE – and create 40 new "educational cities". The Government's ambition is, again, to strengthen the role of the school, but also to change software to enable everyone and the entire ecosystem of field actors to better support young people in their journeys to succeed. That's concrete. Finally, urban renewal is essential to ensure a better living environment for the inhabitants. Above all, it must integrate the issues of mobility and ecological transition, while at the same time ensuring the imperative of social mix – on which the report for opinion by Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize emphasises. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout also applauds]] Whether through access to employment for all, through economic development, through an educational offer with high added value or through the improvement of the urban environment, city policy must be a policy of emancipation, oriented towards territorial equity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u46	We only have one question, asked by Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol. You have the floor, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u47	Rather than making big speeches, I will ask you specific questions, particularly about the France Services houses that many of my colleagues mentioned in the general discussion. These houses are very important and symbolize this mission "Cohesion of territories" in that they are necessary in both urban and rural areas. The elements of the annual performance project – PAP – and the reading of the June 8 circular inspire some questions. The PAP indicates that 80% of the population was less than 30 minutes away from a France Services house in 2020, while the initial target was 85%. Is this five-point gap the result of the current health crisis? Is the objective of achieving a rate of 92% by 2021 credible, taking into account the planned appropriations? The circular of 8 June mentions the objective of 2700 structures labeled by the end of 2022, while the PAP mentions 2534 structures on the same date, which seems to correspond to the sum of the maximum ceilings of France Services per department. Could you clarify these objectives? Finally, nine operators participate in this scheme – and in part in its financing. Are new operators likely to integrate the program?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u48	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u49	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol, the differences that you highlight are not at all the result of the health crisis, but of the establishment of France Services houses that have been labeled since the beginning of 2020. The coverage rate of the population has changed thanks to the new labeling carried out in September 2020, bringing the total number of France Services houses to 856, given that the labeling objective is set at 2534 structures in 2022, i.e. one per canton. The forecast of a 92% coverage rate at the end of 2021 therefore seems achievable. The circular of 8 June and the budget arbitrage you are reporting correspond well to this objective of 2534 structures at the end of 2022. There is therefore a France Services house per canton, with the exception of those which, like Paris centre, are considered very dense according to the methodology of the Institut national de la statistique et des études économiques – INSEE; On the other hand, there is provision for coverage of each territory covered by the new urban renewal programme or by the republican reconquest districts. The local deployment ceilings of the France Services network were calculated on this basis and then specified in the circular you cited. A tenth operator joined the France Services programme at the end of September 2020:'AGIRC-ARRCO – Association générale des institutions de retraite des cadres-Association pour le plan de rétraite complémentaire des salariés – complements the package of services on pensions offered to users. We are also working with the Agence de l'Environnement et de la Maîtrise de l'Energie – ADEME –, in particular on the part of the training of agents France Services, so that they can support the French in their efforts related to the energy renewal of housing. In addition, many local partnerships are established between the network and its partners to better address the needs of users, social centres, associations and communities. I have made visits, some with you, to many France Services houses in the bourbonnais mountain or in the Combrailles. In these very rural and mountain areas, I was able to see that many local partnerships had been put in place because they were better suited to the reality of the land's needs. To set up a France Services project, we must first observe the terrain and then ensure that the State can label the structure, with a number of important partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u50	I call the appropriations of the "Cohesion of Territories" mission, listed in state B. First of all, I would like to take stock of the organization of our debates. You know that 154 amendments are under discussion on this mission, but, as you know, the National Assembly will sit tomorrow morning, afternoon and evening to discuss the mission "Economy" and, in final reading, the project extending the state of health emergency. The Government has informed me that the possible continuation of the discussion of the "Cohesion of Territories" mission will, if necessary, be included tomorrow, after the agenda items I have just reminded you, i.e. at the earliest in the late afternoon. In view of these elements, I would like to inform you that we will adjourn this evening at midnight, unless the steady pace of our discussions could lead us to consider an end to the discussion at a reasonable time, that is, around midnight or at a maximum of midnight. We come to the amendments. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 2620.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u51	This is a coordination amendment linked to the reform of the property taxes of industrial establishments, provided for in Article 4, which results in a reduction in the level of the taxes allocated to the national housing fund – FNAL –, to public property establishments, public land and development establishments and to agencies in the 50 geometric steps. This coordination amendment helps to maintain the resources of these institutions by increasing the appropriations for programme 109 by €2.9 million and reducing the appropriations for programme 135 by about the same amount.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u52	Mr François Jolivet, Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u53	The committee has not considered this amendment, but I am in a personal capacity expressing a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u54	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 2543.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u55	It aims to increase housing aid appropriations by EUR 1 billion, in order to anticipate the social consequences of the covid-19 epidemic and to cope with an increase of 379000 beneficiaries, which represents about one third of the million of our citizens who have fallen into poverty. Taking into account the new number of beneficiaries of housing grants in 2021 and thus anticipating budgetary requirements, this amendment would improve the sincerity of the Mission's appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u56	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u57	The committee has rejected your amendment, but I can assure you that the House will adopt, if necessary, a supplementary budget. To convince itself, it is sufficient to note that the fourth draft amending finance law provides for an additional €1.8 billion in housing aid, in order to meet the expenditure. The contemporaneity of the aid, which will be put in place, is a guarantee for the tenants.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u58	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u59	Unfavorable opinion. We have chosen to anticipate the social consequences of the crisis by providing exceptional aid for the most modest, including the beneficiaries of the LPAs when they are households with children or young people under 25 years of age, for the first time in spring and for the second time in November. In addition, Housing Action assistance for rent payments will be extended and extended. Finally, the real-time reform of the LPA will make it possible to adjust allocations more quickly to a decrease in resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u60	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u61	I understand that there are exceptional aids for people who are affected by LPAs, but the amendment envisages a different case, that of people who are at risk of becoming eligible for this allowance. The proposed budget will not necessarily be sufficient and, for reasons of budgetary sincerity, it would be good to include these appropriations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u62	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u63	I support this amendment, and I take this opportunity to question the Government. As of 1 January, APLs will be calculated in real time. As a first step, the Government expected a savings of EUR 1 billion from this contemporaneization, with the then minister explaining that France was getting better and that the unemployment rate was falling. It was his way of looking at things... For my part, I thought that the amendment of the eligibility criteria would, above all, eliminate the LPA to certain recipients, with constant incomes. It doesn't matter since now this debate is out of date. We are witnessing an increase in inequality and poverty in our country: 1 million people have passed below the poverty line; 20 per cent of the poorest households were indebted and impoverished during the covid-19 crisis. At a constant scale, what budgetary effort will it take to take care of our fellow citizens who will become eligible for the LPA?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u64	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u65	The question of our colleague Peu is fundamental, as is the amendment by Jean-Louis Bricout. The reform of LPAs was planned in the context of the economic situation that prevailed before the covid-19 epidemic. Savings would be realized as the family allowance funds would apply another method of calculation. Now, a number of people will find themselves in difficulty. In real time, some people will become eligible for APLs while others will see the amount of their allowance increase as their income declines. There will necessarily be budgetary consequences of the crisis of the Covid-19 on the amount of LPAs, including because of the reform, since the latter had to be favourable to the beneficiaries. How much does the Government assess the budgetary impact of this crisis on the amount of LPAs?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u66	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u67	As you know, APLs are a right: it never happened that tenants did not receive their allowances on the pretext that the necessary amount had not been budgeted. The budget of the APLs is adjusted annually in PLFR – amending finance bill. For the financial year 2020, as the Special Rapporteur has pointed out, a massive adjustment will take place in the context of the review of PLFR 4 which will be presented to you shortly: due to the economic crisis and its consequences for the beneficiaries of the APLs, we expect an increase in the budget of EUR 600 million. For the financial year 2021, an increase of $500 million is foreseen at this stage. If this increase proves to be insufficient in view of the impact of the crisis, these appropriations will obviously be abounded in successive amending finance laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u68	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 2544.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u69	It aims to increase the appropriations allocated to housing aid by EUR 83.8 million, in order to catch up with the rate of non-tobacco inflation, which amounted to 1% between 2019 and 2020, whereas the Government has chosen, through Article 200 of the Finance Act for 2020, to apply only a flat rate revaluation of 0.3%. The aim is to preserve the purchasing power of the least favoured households, after average reductions in LPA of €12.70 per year – taking into account inflation – in addition to the €5 cut in 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u70	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u71	As you know, the Finance Committee rejected this amendment, which was presented in a similar wording during the review of the PLF for 2020. I had already told you, on that occasion, that the Government had preferred to increase the allowance for adults with disabilities and the minimum old age. This answer is still valid. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u73	As the Special Rapporteur pointed out, in 2019 and 2020 we chose to significantly increase the activity premium, the solidarity allowance for the elderly and the allowance for adults with disabilities, which has benefited a large part of the beneficiaries of the most modest LPAs. This year, we have also created two exceptional aids for the most modest, for families and young people under 25 years of age. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u74	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u75	I noted, during my opening speech, that by starting your mandate in July 2017, you took two decisions "at the same time", to take up a term that you love: the reduction of 5 euros from the APL and the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth. These measures have marked your mandate with red iron and you will keep track of it for a long time. After this decrease of 5 euros, other decisions came, year after year, to unindex the APLs. Of course, they cumulate, even after the President of the Republic admitted that this policy was bullshit: the majority and successive governments persisted in the bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u76	Say "wrong"!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u77	It would be a way of repairing it if we adopted Mr Bricout's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u78	Be careful, Mr. Little, you're causing President Le Fur's emotion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u79	But on the bottom, Mr. Little is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u80	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 1841.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u81	By this amendment we propose to transfer EUR 12 from Action 7 of Programme 135, which is intended to finance large-scale urban development operations which are often unnecessary, to housing aid. This is obviously not enough to meet the social demand for affordable housing: this amount simply corresponds to the sudden and unfair decline of €5 in APLs in 2017, coupled with the freeze in 2018, which cost beneficiaries an average of €4.20 and then the 0.3% increase in 2019 – a much lower rate than inflation, which again reduced the APL by €2.50 in real terms. Thus, in 2020, beneficiaries lost at least €11.70 from APL compared to the situation before President Macron's election. Through this amendment, we want to stress the need to re-examine the amount of the APLs, the latter to be balanced against the €253,800 offered to each of the 5,000 richest French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u82	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u83	Everyone will have understood that the main purpose of an amendment to redirect funds to the amount of EUR 12 is to allow you to speak, which I respect. It is in fact a profound disagreement with the policy led by the majority. I could recall that the contemporaneity of the aid will make it possible to adjust the social benefits received by the tenants to their level of resources, or that the budget for 2021 provides for the allocation of EUR 2 billion to the MaPrimRénov' scheme, EUR 500 million to the energy renovation and EUR 300 million to the recycling of polluted wastelands. You forget a lot about these measures, which I regret. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u84	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u85	It is also unfavourable, for reasons complementary to those mentioned by the Special Rapporteur. We have greatly improved the activity premium, the solidarity allowance for the elderly and the allowance for adults with disabilities. We have also paid exceptional aid in 2020 and we can do it again if necessary. Finally, the so-called "real-time LPA" reform will make it possible to adjust LPAs as best as possible to the declines in household resources.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u86	I call Mrs Stéphanie Do, draftsman of the opinion, to support Amendment No. 630.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u87	It aims to restore personal housing subsidies for home ownership throughout the country, both in the new and the old. I would point out that this is an appeal amendment, since the subject is sensitive to low income households wishing to gain access to property. This arrangement was to accompany the government's objective of increasing mobility in the social stock and facilitating the sale of HLM housing to their tenants. To meet this objective, HLM Action Housing's national sales operator was established in 2019. It is simply a matter of ensuring the overall coherence of the system. In addition, according to the National Fund of Family Allowances, only €18 million was saved in 2018 with the abolition of this scheme, which benefited about 35,000 modest households each year: in the end, this decision results in an additional cost to the State. The cost of the LPA must in fact be balanced against that of non-ownership: on the one hand, tax expenditure and direct aid paid for about 15 years to enable people to gain access to the property; On the other hand, housing allowances are much higher and almost for life, as well as the immobilization of the social park to the benefit of rental aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u88	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u89	I will respond in the same way to all the amendments on this issue. The Finance Committee rejected the amendments relating to the accession LPA. The debate has been open since the Assembly strongly framed this mechanism in 2018, to the great dismay of some. However, since many in this Chamber refer to the Court of Auditors when the Government does not take its opinions into account, it is in this case that the majority drew lessons from a report by the Court in 2017, in which it stated that the rapid growth in the real estate market was largely due to the scarcity of land, which led to price increases, and that the accession LPA had become insufficient to offset these increases. Unfavorable opinion on this amendment, as on the four that will follow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u90	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u91	While the financial law for 2018 provided for the phasing out of the APL accession scheme, the latter was already in sharp decline in previous years. Loans signed before 2018 of course remain eligible for aid. A transitional phase planned until 1 January 2020 has made it possible not to call into question real estate projects undertaken in a relaxed area. The mobilization of other social homeownership schemes is preferred. I am thinking of the Social Leasing-Accession Loan (SPLA), the zero-rate loan or the real solidarity lease, the deployment of which continues in the framework of the PLF for 2021, in particular with the extension of the application of the VAT rate to 5.5%. In addition, an amendment will be tabled in the coming days to extend the zero-rate loan and make some adjustments. Finally, the pledge you are proposing – 25 million euros less on programme 112 on spatial planning and as much on programme 135 – would make it difficult for the Government to act on territorial cohesion or to improve housing. For all these reasons, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u92	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 2152.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u93	It is also an appeal amendment, which is part of the same debate. The question, Madam Minister Delegate, is how the Government wishes to relaunch social ownership. The numbers are collapsing. You promised that all tenants could buy their housing, that social donors would get funding – in short, that it would be the panacea. However, the number of dwellings sold by lenders to tenants remains very low, for a simple reason: households face financial difficulties! The accession LPA was a good way to allow the most fragile populations to become owners – all studies showed that. So the question is how, if you refuse to re-create the LPA accession, you plan to promote social ownership.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u94	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u95	I will leave it to the Government to answer you. In any event, the opinion of the Committee on Finance is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u96	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u97	As I have had the opportunity to indicate at the moment, we prefer the other arrangements: social loan rental-accession, zero-rate loan and real solidarity lease. For this reason, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u98	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u99	All the actors in the housing industry, regardless of their obedience, ensure that by removing the APL accession, you have done something stupid. Everyone says it! You can take refuge behind the Court of Auditors' report, but you can tell these reports a lot and draw very different conclusions: this argument is not enough. The fact that other arrangements exist is also not a relevant argument, Madam Minister. The PSLA and the APL accession have long coexisted: they are two completely different devices, which can also be combined. The question that is asked is how to help modest households access the property – to acquire their main home, I remind you! How is it that we are able to spend billions of euros to help multi-owners further increase their wealth by challenging real estate investments, but that we are unable to make a much weaker effort to help modest households buy their main home, the home they are going to live in? This is an aberration: on the one hand we do not count billions for multi-owners; On the other hand, we are reluctant to spend a few million dollars on modest homeowners. The removal of the LPA was, I believe, a bad decision. In view of the unanimous opinion of the actors in the trade, wisdom would force you to come back on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u100	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u101	You made a big mistake abandoning the LPA accession. You did not only do so on the basis of budgetary considerations, remember: it was about making work mobile. In this perspective, home ownership was an embarrassment. It was therefore necessary for people to remain tenants rather than gain access to the property. I was elected in a constituency of which 80% of the population qualify for social housing. Although there are few social housing units, the acquisition of ownership of medium-sized households, or even modest ones, was still possible a few years ago. She's not. Thanks to our efforts – I am speaking under the control of my colleague Bazin – and thanks to the support of some of the majority, we have been able to restore the zero-rate loan. That's a good thing. However, the APL accession scheme allowed individuals to trade the APL they were receiving as tenants against the aid paid to them as homeowners. You interrupted that chain. So, what's going on? The current tenants, who used to access the property, now remain where they are: they do not release their homes, which therefore cannot be rented to more modest people. I think you're making a fundamental mistake. Today's debate is an opportunity, at this complicated time, to affirm our willingness to allow medium or even modest households to gain access to property.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u102	I call Mr Guy Bricout to support Amendment No. 2632.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u103	In line with what has just been said by my colleagues, this amendment aims to restore personal housing subsidies for home ownership throughout the country, for both the new and the old. We are far from meeting the target of 500,000 new housing per year and there is therefore an effort to be made towards people with social difficulties. This is an old request from our group, as IDU Members have constantly proposed it by way of amendment. The reduction in aid imposed by the 2018 Finance Act, which had negative effects, particularly in the ultramarine territories, should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u105	I confirm that the committee's opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u106	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 2545.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u107	The aim of this amendment is to restore the accession LPA. It has been called for three years, including rapporteurs from the majority. I really do not understand that the Government does not have the humility to recognize that it has made a mistake by abolishing it and that it is time to restore it. This is even a double mistake, with the limit of the zero-rate loan. However, it must be borne in mind that curbing social ownership does not make any sense in terms of public finances: it is well known that persons deprived of the possibility of becoming owners will continue to be entitled to the LPA as a tenant, a scheme which is of great cost to the budget, and that, in addition, the State is depriving itself of the tax revenues which it would have collected at the time of sale, including VAT. Besides, you're hindering the sales programs of social donors. There is also the social aspect of the question: it is a fundamental difference to move from the status of tenant to the status of owner, it changes everything in the life course, not only in the residential path: the relationship to others is different, including with the neighbourhood, one is perhaps more attached to its territory... You should take on yourself and have the humility to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u108	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u109	First of all, to reply to Mr Le Fur who would like to keep as many tenants as possible to promote professional mobility: I was the Special Rapporteur of this mission for the first time in 2018 and I have never heard such an argument, I discover it today. In any case, that was not the goal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u110	But my colleague said so!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u111	I do not say otherwise, but I register falsely in relation to this assertion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u112	That's your logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u113	As for the amendment put forward by Jean-Louis Bricout, I would say that it is true that one can defend a position and then recognise that one has been wrong: the argument is valid in both directions, including when defending an amendment. I thought the debate on the accession LPA was over and I don't know why some people are reopening it. In a very rural department like mine, where 94% of the population is eligible for social housing, it is true that there is much less access to new real estate than before, but on the other hand, interest in old housing has regained a little strength: today there are people under the ceiling of HLM resources who access in rural areas to the property. So I can't let any misconceptions be said. In any case, what Marc Le Fur says is not true in Indre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u114	The Indre is of course exceptional!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u115	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u116	The opinion will be unfavourable, as on the previous amendment. I would also like to recall the Government's efforts on real solidarity leases – BRS – which are a new tool for social ownership in the event of dismemberment, a tool that seems interesting to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u117	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1851.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u118	Madam Minister Delegate, I have listened to you well: the BRS is indeed an interesting tool, but it cannot be the alpha and the omega of the policy of social home ownership. But is it really your goal to promote social ownership? If that is the case, I would remind you that other devices have already shown in the past that they were performing. The reality is that the government wanted in the 2018 finance law to do a plan on housing – we saw it then with the APL and also with the PTZ, whose financial quota was halved in 95 per cent of the territory. In particular, he hoped to save EUR 50 million by abolishing the APL accession. One year later, the Government saved only €18 million, while depriving 30,000 homes of home ownership. The mechanism of the APL accession is an accompaniment in time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u119	That's right! It's very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u120	... while those you mentioned, including the use of VAT, are based on D-Day. This is not at all the same, especially for people who are currently in the social park. When social donors accompany their prospective tenants, the APL tool is much more relevant than the BRS or reduced-rate VAT because it allows them to follow them throughout a residential journey. [[Mr. Marc Le Fur and Mr. Stéphane Little applaud]] My amendment therefore aims to restore the APL accession in order to promote social ownership, with a transfer of credits of only €18 million since it is the real cost of its restoration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u122	I confirm the committee's opinion: unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u123	We have to argue, Mr. Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u124	I've already done it, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u126	Yes, I am in favour of everything that promotes the fluidity of people on the housing journey: the fluidity that allows access to social housing or intermediate housing in the rental, the fluidity that allows to move from a situation of tenant to a situation of owner in social accession, the fluidity made possible by a housing adaptable throughout the life course. We have maintained instruments: the zero-rate loan will be extended, and the BRS remains, I repeat, an interesting tool. Moreover, the APL accession is a tool for supporting purchasing power, and we prefer others: I would remind them that the business premium is massively paid to eligible households whose purchasing power is thus supplemented. Therefore, I do not think it necessary to re-establish the accession LPA. The opinion is therefore unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u127	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u128	[[Mr. Marc Le Fur applauds]] I know that time is short: I will go faster on other matters, Mr. Chairman. But I would like to point out that, beyond the current interest rates of the PTZs, the real issue is the financial quota. You need to be clear to the national representative, Madam Deputy Minister: if you only want a greening of the PTZ, for everything to be great, you do not answer the question of household resolvability. However, this is still one of the major issues. Social donors know their tenants, they accompany them. Answering by the PTZ means abandoning the accompaniment in time. It is also necessary to have a long-term vision, that of the rooting of these people, and not only to remain in a fluidity in which rooting has no value.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u129	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u130	I completely agree with Thibault Bazin's arguments. I will add another one, because I was surprised by the Deputy Minister's argument on purchasing power. The amount of the LPA, for both the licensor and the tenant, is calculated on the basis of the purchasing power. Therefore, if the person's income increases – including by the activity premium – the LPA decreases. It is not an aid to purchasing power, it takes into account someone's income to help him or her stay, as a tenant or owner, and all this in the long term to be able to accompany him or her on his or her residential journey. I really still do not understand, and I am not the only one, the reasons that led the Government to remove a functioning mechanism. We've got to get him back.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u131	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to support Amendment No. 2503.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u132	Madam Deputy Minister, you have just said that you were in favour of everything that can facilitate fluidity in the residential path, including access to housing. But today, as we know, there is a weak link in this journey: it is very social housing. It is no longer funded by the state for a long time, when everyone knows very well that if people are to be brought out of poverty, from emergency shelters, from hotels where tens and tens of thousands of people are buried – overnights financed by the state at an exorbitant cost every night – it is necessary to refinance the production of social housing and very social housing. For years, associations and other actors in housing have been calling for a target of 60,000 PLAI per year. They concern very social housing. It takes a subsidy of about 11000 euros per dwelling to produce them. If we want to go further than the target set this year by the National Stone Aid Fund (FNAP), namely the production of 40,000 social housing units via the PLAI, the State must return to the financing channel. We know that it is already very difficult to access the HLM in normal time, with waiting times on average of two years at national level and even more in the Paris region – and this is not going to work out with the crisis that is coming. And if I understood the President of the Republic when he spoke of separatism, he would like less social housing in the cities that already count a lot... So if we want not only to get people out of poverty but also to break these ghettos, we will have to put the package on the production of social housing. My proposal, Madam Minister Delegate, is simple: to bring the state back in the financing of stone aid and very social housing, which would increase from 40000 to 60000 PLAI if we granted 226400000 euros of additional appropriations to the programme "Accommodation, journey to housing and integration of vulnerable people" to finance from the National Stone Aid Fund. This would be a nice way to strengthen fluidity in access to housing, a nice way to fight against ghettos, a nice way to get a whole bunch of people out today in hotels and in emergency accommodation centres so that they can access housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u134	Your amendment, my dear colleague, has not been tabled in committee. But I can already tell you, in my capacity as administrator of the National Stone Aid Fund, that its priority is to finance the PLAI and that 92% of the envelopes are committed and even consumed, the real difficulty being that the operations do not come out of the ground. As for the figure of 11,000 euros that you indicate to subsidise the production of a PLAI, I think it might be enough in zone 3 or zone C, but it is certainly much more in the Paris region. In any case, be aware that donors regard the subject as their priority mission and that all the dossiers they present today are funded. I have no doubt that if they presented much more files, the FNAP would reorient all its funding to the PLAI since its objective is to accompany the entire housing scheme first, including accompanied housing, by promoting rental intermediation. I will express an unfavorable opinion on your amendment in my personal capacity because I believe it is satisfied that its objective is already a strategic priority of the National Stone Aid Fund.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u136	I strongly support, Mr President, the logic of "housing first": I think it is absolutely essential to allow people currently in housing to be in housing as quickly as possible. This requires a major effort on the PLAI and the adapted PLAI – for very social and very low rent housing – but also, as the Special Rapporteur has said, on rental intermediation. The desire to make the best use of PLAI is strong and the FNAP is already very much committed to this approach: their number has increased by 15% from 2015 to 2019. The FNAP funds all of the projects and I do not believe that there is a lack of funding in this regard. In addition, the poverty plan has planned to double the adapted PLAI, with an additional EUR 50 million recently announced for the period 2021-2022. The FNAP will accompany the rise in charge of PLAI as it becomes possible, especially since under the France Relance plan, we will abound it by 500 million in order to renovate social housing and restore oxygen to it. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable on the proposed flow of appropriations, but I share your ambition to increase the volume and share of PLAI at national level.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u137	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u138	I understand that the FNAP would have funded all of PLAI's files: what I don't understand is why we don't want to know why social donors don't offer more PLAI programming. We know that there is a need for much more PLAI to finance the households concerned. If the current institutional mechanics do not produce more, let us draw the consequences! The FNAP mechanism is not very old, it was created three or four years ago. At that time I was at the Ministry of Housing and had been imagined in an attempt to pool a series of aid to donors. Meanwhile, the resources of the latter have been weakened by the reforms: the decline of the APLs in 2018, the punctions on Housing Action today. How can we produce more PLAI? You told me that the amount of the subsidy I was referring to was rather untied areas; So how can we collectively produce more very social housing in very tense areas? How can the State assume more ambitious objectives? Indeed, I deeply believe that this is a necessity. As you know, Madam Deputy Minister, Mr. Special Rapporteur: a lot of people need these homes, the queues are excessive. If we continue to finance the FNAP files, without looking for other mechanisms to speed up the construction of very social housing, we will miss our goal: to ensure access to housing for the most vulnerable households in this country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u139	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u140	What determines PLAI needs is not envelopes, but people's income. In fact, PLAI are additional aids for setting rents subject to resource ceiling criteria. In a department like the Seine-Saint-Denis – I take it as an example because I know it well, but there are many others – 85% of the people on the social housing applicants file are below the PLAI ceilings. However, given the envelopes allocated, only a minority will be able to access them. The problem is not the consumption of the envelope! When a landlord goes to a prefecture and declares that he wants to make 60% PLAI and 40% PLUS – a rental loan for social use – the prefecture simply tells him that the envelope allocated to him does not allow him to do so and that this programming needs to be reviewed. It is not the programming of social donors that would just reach the dedicated envelope: it is the prefectures and the regional and interdepartmental directorates of housing and housing that modify the programming according to the envelopes they have at their disposal. That's how it works! What is valid in the Seine-Saint-Denis is also valid, perhaps in a slightly smaller proportion, throughout the country. The vast majority of applicants for social housing in our country are below the PLAI resource limits, while the corresponding housing represents a tiny minority of the social housing built. It is an aberration, including from the point of view of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u141	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 1842.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u142	Since 2017, HLM organizations have been heavily affected by their revenues, along with the increase in VAT on the construction of social housing, resulting in an additional cost to these organizations. In the face of this impoverishment, they were forced to lean on the maintenance of buildings by lowering the expenses for major repairs by 7%, and to reduce the production of new housing. More than 2 million households are waiting to receive HLM housing. These measures, which drain the financial resources of the HLM organizations, have led to the collapse of the construction of social housing: the Caisse des dépôts et consignations itself forecasts that by 2035 this production will fall to 600,000 per year. With this amendment, we propose to draw from the programme "Impulsion and coordination of spatial planning policy" the sum of EUR 4.8 million to redeploy it to action 1 of programme 109 "Aid for access to housing".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u143	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u144	As you know, your amendment has been rejected by the committee. You can imagine that it is not by moving 4.8 million that we can change the situation; It is therefore, for you, a new way of expressing your disagreement with the policy led by the Government – a position that I respect. However, where did you find the 7% drop in provisions for major repairs? The documents issued today by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations do not mention this: with the compensation measures, the donors seem to have completely absorbed the first phase of the reduction of solidarity rent, a reform that I considered, as you know, with great reservations in 2018: it makes me wrong. This is due to the compensation mechanisms that we have put in place for the benefit of the HLM organizations: a decrease in the contribution to the Caisse de garantie du logement sociale – CGLLS –, an increase in the maturity of the loans, and a premium loan from the Caisse des dépôts. As a result of these measures, donors are currently recovering. We will see next year, when their figures are consolidated, if they also manage to cope with the second phase of the SLR; But today, your concerns about them are not justified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u145	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u146	Indeed, the €1.3 billion effort requested by the HLM organisations for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022 is part of a pact signed with them in spring 2019, which they approved under the re-visit clause. This pact provides for measures to support social donors, which have been listed by the Special Rapporteur. The Bank of the Territories' recent report shows that these organizations have regained a balance and a capacity to self-finance and finance our social housing ambition. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u147	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1078.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u148	We are all aware of the social crisis that unfortunately accompanies the health crisis. With this amendment, we propose to abound the State's share of the budget of the housing solidarity fund – the FSL, which you all know, managed on a departmental scale – by €200 million to help, through loans or subsidies, tenants in the social park and the private park in difficulty of paying rent, but also owners who find it difficult to repay their loan. Above all, please don't answer me about how the amendment is handled: Article 40 makes us stupidly obliged to do so, and if you agree with the proposed measure, you have every opportunity to raise the pledge. I invite you, it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u150	I understand the meaning of your request. The FSL is now a departmental-level social assistance mechanism, and the departments also invite the other local authorities to co-finance the mechanisms it proposes: the FSL access and the FSL maintenance. The FSL was never intended to help people who cannot repay home ownership loans. We could look at the issue with a feedback – a "retex", as we say today – on these policies, but it is not in the tradition of the state to intervene in these kinds of devices. That is why the committee gave an unfavorable opinion on the amendment. For my part, I would suggest withdrawal, but I would take on the experiments conducted in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u152	In the face of the concern, which I share, about the risk of increasing unpaid rents, we are acting in the short and medium term. In the short term, Housing Action has developed additional support for employees and jobseekers facing payment difficulties; We have also set up an observatory bringing together all the actors involved in this risk. In the medium term, the Prime Minister has entrusted a mission to MP Nicolas Demoulin, who must formulate more comprehensive and ambitious proposals for the prevention of unpaid rents, including by mobilising all conciliation processes, including those of the Commission for the coordination of actions to prevent rental evictions – CCAPEX. I cannot, therefore, at this stage give an opinion in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u153	Mr Stéphane Peu has the floor to support Amendment No. 1080.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u154	It is always a question of creating mechanisms to deal with the social crisis in the area of housing. The amendment proposes to abound the donor compensation fund by an additional EUR 50 million for cases of refusal to grant assistance from law enforcement. Social donors have greatly developed the social prevention of evictions, but the situation varies greatly from prefecture to prefecture. In Seine-Saint-Denis, I knew a prefect – who now exercises this function elsewhere – who, obsessed with budgetary objectives, was expulsing in turn to bring down the amount of catches taken from his prefecture. He was proud, at the end of the year, to show us his charts. Not all prefects act like this, fortunately; But it happens. Action must be guided by both financial and social considerations, but efforts must be made to avoid evictions as far as possible. Among the many steps to be taken, we propose to abound the donor compensation fund when there is no recourse to law enforcement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u156	I understand the substance of your amendment, but I would point out that it is not easy to get expelled from an HLM. The departmental conciliation commission ensures that the landlords welcome tenants in situations of expulsion, often in the event of a break and lack of consultation with the original lessor. CCAPEX is now almost systematically proposing moratoria, resumed payments and housing subsidies. Your amendment actually includes two subjects: on the one hand, it proposes ways to avoid evictions; On the other hand, it proposes to compensate donors who do not expel. But in law, there are rules: today, a lessor who does not manage to obtain the assistance of the law enforcement agency refers the case to the administrative court, which then systematically condemns the state. Moreover, in the years 2005-2006, the HLM Movement had invited all its members to apply to the administrative courts: a conciliation mechanism had to be devised between the prefects and the donors; the case has returned to the level of the minister who realized that he would never be able to face the payment. At that time, HLM donors were invited to give up compensation when they had obtained the State's conviction. In short, the legal framework already allows us to limit evictions, especially from the social park. Moreover, the coordination mechanisms created by local elected representatives in the territories – those of Seine-Saint-Denis have had ramifications throughout the country – have proved their worth. In rural departments, it is rare for an HLM landlord to expel; I have not heard much about expulsions from HLM Park, regardless of the territory. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u158	To complement the Special Rapporteur's remarks, compensation to private donors for non-use of law enforcement is an important topic. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and is funded by Program 216, which is not part of this mission. The issue is being discussed with the Minister of the Interior, who instructed that all claims not processed in 2020 be processed in order to ensure that all private donors claiming compensation for non-use of the law are compensated without delay. The subject will also be taken up in the framework of the Demoulin mission I have mentioned. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u159	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u160	Madam Deputy Minister, this may be one of the questions to ask: is it for the Ministry of the Interior to have control over these appropriations? If we want to pursue an offensive policy on the prevention of evictions – and I know that you are committed to it, you who have commissioned a parliamentarian to study the subject – it may be up to the Ministry of Housing to regain control. I see very well what prefect Stéphane Peu refers to. The problem exists in departments where the situation is very tense: State officials say that if they do not expel, they consume money every year, and more so from the Ministry of the Interior, which will therefore not go to the police or other missions supported by the Government. The Ministry of Housing should take over the matter. We need to find a way to compensate the social donors, but also the private owners, upstream, before the expulsion procedure is launched. Social support and rent support must be financed. During this crisis, all associations are demanding specific funds for exit assistance. We know we're in danger of having unpaid rents. You have also announced, Madam Deputy Minister, the creation of a rent unpaid observatory. It is now necessary, beyond the tools we give ourselves to assess the extent of the damage, to give us tools to respond to it, so to have in your ministry funds to compensate social donors and private owners, to finance social support efforts before the unpaid ones arrive. You have commissioned a parliamentarian, very well, but the crisis is coming; Let us act, let us adopt Mr Little's amendment, let us ensure that you have the means at the Ministry of Housing to finance the prevention of evictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u161	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u162	It's a fundamental subject. All elected representatives of the most tense territories, where there are the most social difficulties, have been confronted with the problem. Overall, the system is pretty well thought out but there are holes in the racket. People don't show up, owners wait too long before they report the problem, we get to unbearable situations, the money piles up, the tenant makes the ostrich... I am not talking about tenants in bad faith, who seek not to pay: there is no reason to support them, they must be punished. I am talking about tenants in good faith, who at one point can no longer pay their rent: it accumulates, they do not react, the owner does not react, and in the end it is the state that will have to pay. Is it not believed, in the present situation, that the police have something else to do than to come in numbers, at six or seven o'clock in the morning, with bailiffs, to expel families, children, to put them on the street and tell them to manage? If the system is generally well thought out, it is still necessary to look at these cases, which may be increasing in number. That is why I support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u163	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1852.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u164	Madam Deputy Minister, you have referred to your intention to extend the PTZ and to make it evolve. In 2018, it was not your portfolio but the government to which you belong has halved the financial quota of the PTZ on 95% of French territory. This has led to a reduction of over 30% in zero-rate loans; It is almost 30,000 households that have not been able to access the property, and this is still getting worse. The question is very concrete: from 40 per cent to 20 per cent of the financial quota is increased for people who have difficulty completing their financing plan. So, very concretely, are you going to restore a 40 per cent financial quota on the 95 per cent of French territory that has been despised for three years?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u165	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u166	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u167	The committee has not seen this amendment, and that is normal since the tax area is not part of this task. I express an unfavorable opinion as we are not able to discuss it tonight anyway.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u168	You're smart, Mr. Special Rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u169	What about the background?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u170	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u171	The same is true because we will have this debate on the substance, whether for the PTZ or the Pinel device, at the time of the non-attached articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u172	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u173	You could at least tell us your intentions, otherwise we will pass all the following amendments to question you on the PTZ!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u174	And on the Pinel!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u175	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u176	I agree enough with Mr. Bazin. The answer is smart, but not very effective. The question raised by this amendment is: what is the Government's policy to help first-time followers? Within a general homeownership policy, to which I fully subscribe, I believe that the bulk of national solidarity must be mobilised in order to help those who do not own it, wherever it is – through the LPA, through zero-rate loans, through all the mechanisms to solve those who wish to become owners. It is a subject of housing policy, whether it is regulated by tax measures or others. We ask you whether the homeownership policy is aimed only at real estate investors or whether it is also interested in French and French people who would like to become owners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u177	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1853.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u178	It is forbidden, Mr. President, to please you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u179	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 2123.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u180	The real solidarity lease was created to allow the very social accession to the property, by dissociating the land from the built. At the same time there is the loan of social accession – PAS – to property, for the most fragile populations. The problem is that the benefit of a BRS excludes the SAP, for purely legal reasons. We all agree that the BRS is in the right direction, the PAS is in the right direction, and the two are made for each other. The idea is therefore to make it possible to combine the two.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u181	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u182	Your amendment has not been tabled in committee. He is satisfied since section 156 of the Finance Act for 2020 provides what you are asking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u183	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u184	Same opinion. This has been satisfied since the Finance Law for 2020: it is now possible to open the PAS guarantee to real estate rights holders within the framework of a BRS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u185	You have the floor, Mr Pupponi, to support Amendment No. 2127.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u186	The aim of Mrs Pinel's amendment is to extend the system which bears her name once again. As Mr. Bazin and Mr. Little have said, if we could know the Government's position on PTZ and Pinel, it would prevent us from asking the question on all the amendments, and we would save time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u188	The committee has not considered your amendment. Personally, I'm unfavorable. And it is in the discussion of non-attached articles that the Government will speak about Pinel, PTZ and APL accession.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u190	Unfavorable opinion. The debate will take place at the time of the non-attached articles.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u191	Well, maybe we'll go to bed...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u192	I will be on the bench and will therefore have the opportunity to set out the Government's position. I said in my introductory statement that we were generally in favour of extending the Pinel and PTZ, with some adjustments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u193	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 1854.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u194	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Deputy Minister, in reviewing non-attached items, not everyone will necessarily be as sensitive as tonight's public, who wanted to be here late on a Friday to hear about housing and territorial cohesion. It is therefore important that you tell us your intentions. If it is just an extension and a greening, we are not at all in the cohesion of the territories. In this case I understand that you were telling us "move, there's nothing to see" – you're not saying "get out of here! Since it hasn't been said since Tuesday, and we appreciate it. You have to be very concrete. The Pinel has been focused on metropolitan hypercentres. In the past, particularly in sector B2, there were about 5000 or 6000 housing units per year. In some communes that were experiencing tensions in zone B2 and where there was a desire for a mix – a mix of buildings with collectives, a mix of occupancy, private rental, social rental, and main occupants – this has "planted" operations. The reason is simple: when you want to start deals on a plan, especially in the nine, the first buyers, those who are ready to buy on paper, are investors and the last are often homeowners, who take their time to buy their main residence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u195	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u196	For operations to work, therefore, a share of rental investment, including in these areas, is required. Otherwise the elected ones find themselves with buildings almost only taken out by social donors and very little by operators with a mix of buildings. I have a number of proposals for you. Can we consider these solutions in the heart of the city, in the operations of revitalisation of the territory? Can they be considered in the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policies, in sector B2 and C? This will not affect the state budget as these are very marked areas where it is difficult to get out of operations. We need to send a very strong signal of support for rental investment in these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u197	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u198	Your amendment, which falls within the area of taxation, has not been discussed in committee. I will try to present you with a very personal point of view on the substance. In this amendment, you call for the extension of the Pinel system within the framework of ORTs. I would be tempted to tell you that today there is a Denormandie device that can be extended to any ORT. I therefore invite you to ensure that communities of communes and agglomeration communities launch ORTs throughout their territories in order to benefit from this type of arrangement. Then, regarding the balance of operations, between the promoters, I will give you the example of two cities that will make talk about them on the LCP chain in a week: the city of Béziers, reclassified to B2 with Pinel and which has 20% vacant housing, and the city of Vichy, which has benefited from such devices and has 32% vacant housing. This probably means that the state threw money out the windows. Whether it is the Court of Auditors, the rapporteur-general or the former rapporteur-general of the budget, everyone is now dismantling the Pinel scheme, and if I were the Government I would question it much more deeply, even if the crisis probably requires a little visibility of the sector for the production of housing. In any event, this type of debilitating mechanism does more harm than good to the territories. In the old one, in Marseille one is able to drop 60000 housing units inside the city at the same time as the metropolis of Marseille delivers 9000 new housing units on the periphery to satisfy the needs. I am for framed devices allowing the hearts of cities and cities to rebuild themselves, and not to throw the taxpayer's money through the windows so that the city's hearts collapse.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u200	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u201	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u202	You're a bit of a cartoonist, Mr. Special Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u203	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u204	The three regions concerned with the downgrading to B2 are not those from which you draw your examples. In Brittany, in particular, operations were planted and there were no such phenomena. Sometimes, in the same metropolis, when two municipalities with 10000 inhabitants touch each other, one in B1, the other in B2, in one one one can carry out operations with mixedness and without vacant housing, in the other, in B2, right next to it, the operations run out and we manage to bring neither mixness nor density. On ORT, I have a very concrete example. There are cases where it is absolutely necessary to demolish the island in the heart of the city because a rehabilitation would not give housing with a high quality of use: we are therefore obliged to go through new ones. This is not eligible for the Old Denormandie.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u205	Mr Thibault Bazin's amendment No. 1855 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u206	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1251 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u207	I suggest that Mr Ledoux should be able to present this amendment, which was adopted by the committee at its request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u208	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u209	Thank you, Mr. Special Rapporteur. When I tabled this amendment, you gave an opinion of wisdom which led to the committee's approval. It aims to ensure that the Government keeps its voice with regard to the many affected persons who, in 2018, have been confronted with droughts in clay areas, which have affected the buildings long-term and severely, and have caused significant inconvenience to families, some of whom may not even be able to live in their homes. When they live in communes that do not benefit from the state of natural disaster for drought – a regime that, in my view, needs to be completely revised – these families cannot receive insurance compensation. For some, the situation continues to worsen. The finance bill for 2020 provided for 10 million credits to help them, which were not consumed for the reasons we know. I ask for the full carry-over of this amount in 2021 and a new envelope of 10 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u211	Since the adoption of the amendment by the committee, we have learned that a decree has been signed, which has just been promulgated. In addition, with regard to the article of the PLFR4, which provides for the non-reprofiling of appropriations, the Ministry of Housing has specified that this does not apply to clay risks. The 10 million you are proposing to draw on the budget of the ministry responsible for the city of Nadia Hai is therefore no longer justified. The spending of $10 million under the 2020 Finance Bill will be deferred. Mr Ledoux, your amendment is satisfied and I propose that it be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u212	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u213	The Finance Act for 2020 provided for an exceptional scheme to compensate the victims of a drought in 2018 who were not entitled to the conventional insurance scheme because their commune had not been recognised in a state of natural disaster. An envelope of EUR 10 million was adopted at that time. The implementing texts have taken a little time to be published and have only recently come out. The funds will be able to be mobilised, but they will probably not be fully consumed in 2020. So I am making two commitments to you tonight, Mr. Member. On the one hand, all unconsumed credits will be carried forward in 2021. Program 135 "Urbanism, Territories and Habitat Improvement" will be exempted from the deferral cap rule. On the other hand, if these appropriations adopted in 2020 are not sufficient, I commit myself to mobilise the necessary appropriations for management, in the same programme, to supplement the needs. Under these circumstances, it is not useful to vote for a new staffing. In addition, the decline in funding under programme 147 "City Policy" would undermine the State's action in territories with high urban concentrations of poverty and undermine the presidential commitment to stable city policy credits. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would ask you to withdraw your amendment because it is satisfied. Otherwise, I will give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u214	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u215	She has been working hard for more than a week to find the right solution with me. I thank him for that. I also welcome the excellent work of his office, whose accompaniment has been invaluable. The result we are achieving today is a success for those affected above all. I want to reassure the Deputy Minister responsible for the city: I have never considered for a moment to amputate her budget, which is extremely important for my constituency, that of Tourcoing, as for others. As you know, we have no choice but to guarantee the measures we are proposing with amendments to the appropriations. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] All in all, I am fully satisfied with the answer that was given to me this evening, not only for the victims from all over France, but also because we have managed to find the right fit. I withdraw my amendment with great joy and hope!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u216	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 1843.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u217	It concerns the thermal renovation of buildings. One million homes per year would have to be renovated to significantly reduce emissions from the construction sector, which accounts for 19% of national emissions and is the largest final energy consumer in France. There are about 4.8 million thermal colanders. The smallest tenants are the most affected, with 28% of them living in F- or G-class dwellings. However, energy insecurity is affecting more and more French people. The 2 billion invested in the recovery plan for the thermal renovation of buildings is therefore insufficient. According to the Ministry of Environmental Transition, it would take no less than 25 billion per year to treat the 4.8 million heat colanders between 2020 and 2030. As for the MaPrimeRenov' device, to which you referred me, Madam Deputy Minister, when I alerted you on this issue, we do not consider it sufficient either. The experts of the initiative "Renovation! There are several criticisms about it: in particular, it does not allow the financial obstacle to be lifted for the most precarious. The remaining 10 per cent of the total cost announced for the modest ones is limited to certain actions and is not planned for a global renovation. On the other hand, landlords are greatly advantaged. The aid scheme seems excessive for them. For all these reasons, we propose to increase the appropriations allocated to the MaPrimeRenov scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u219	My colleague, the figures in your amendments are modest, but inaccurate. It is not 2 billion that are devoted by the recovery plan to the thermal renovation of buildings,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u220	For the private park!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u221	... but 6.7 billion, the private park benefiting from 2.2 billion. Never before had such an effort been devoted to reducing the number of thermal colanders in France. Let us welcome this initiative rather than contest it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u223	This year, we are providing an unprecedented effort for the energy renovation of individuals. Under the stimulus plan, 2.3 billion budget allocations will be allocated for the thermal renovation of household housing. Aid will be higher for the smaller households. More than two thirds of the envelope will be devoted to them. The aids are open to landlords and landlords. They are also open to global renovation and provide for a bonus when the low consumption level is reached. The scheme is complemented by energy saving certificates which reduce bills by an equivalent amount. The 4.8 million you propose to add are not necessary. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u224	The Special Rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 2621 and to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u225	Having not presented this amendment to the Committee on Finance, I will therefore not be able to give its opinion. This is an appeal amendment, which proposes to allocate an additional 2 million to the National Housing Information Agency – ANIL – and its departmental network of agencies – ADIL. I know that you are working on this, Madam Deputy Minister, and I would like to know your position. These structures are now very much in demand locally, particularly on the issue of unpaid payments, which we mentioned earlier. In my view, they deserve additional means to function.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u226	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u227	Mr. Special Rapporteur, the Government is aware of the importance of providing financial support to ANIL and the ADIL network, which are involved in the implementation of housing policy through information, advice and support, in particular to those most in difficulty. The allocation allocated to them in programme 109 "Aid for access to housing" has been increasing since 2016: €277000 for ANIL, an increase of 28%, and €735,000 for ADIL, an increase of 12%. The question that you raise through this amendment is, however, relevant, even though the amount you are proposing seems to me to be a little high at this stage. I propose that you withdraw it so that we can analyse the reality of the needs by the second reading of the PLF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u228	Amendment No 1661 by Mrs Stéphanie Do is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u229	The amendment has been withdrawn, Mr President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u230	Amendment No 1684 by Mrs Albane Gaillot is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u231	The committee did not consider the amendment. Unfavorable notice in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u232	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u233	Funding for emergency shelters for women victims of violence is an important topic. These places were created with a view to sheltering. Together with my colleague Élisabeth Moreno, Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities, we are mobilized. We aim to create 2000 additional places between 2020 and 2021. The appropriations being entered in the budget, unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u234	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to support Amendment No. 2424.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u235	Like the previous one, it aims to increase the funds allocated to shelters for victims of domestic violence in order to increase the number of places to 2000 and to improve the quality of the 1,000 places already announced. As you said, Madam Deputy Minister: 1000 seats have been scheduled for 2020 and 1000 more are scheduled for 2021. We estimate, with the associations, that 2000 places will be needed in 2021. I would point out that equality between women and men is the main cause of the quinquennium and that domestic violence was the subject of a Grenelle under the aegis of Marlène Schiappa, then Secretary of State for Equality between Women and Men and for Combating Discrimination. The Government provides for places for women victims of violence financed at an average cost of 25 euros per day and per woman. This amount is insufficient to ensure the specific support they need. Such considerations may seem technical and strictly budgetary, but a place in a traditional homeless accommodation centre costs 56 euros a day. With 25 euros, what do we finance? Perhaps the night watchman who monitors the centre or basic jobs, but certainly not the educators and people who help these women raise their heads and who accompany them in the reintegration journey. That is why we are asking for an increase in the unit price of the 1000 places planned in 2021 and the financing of 1000 additional places. We have to live up to the stakes. I repeat, this request comes from all the specialised associative actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u236	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u237	The committee did not consider the amendment, which I recently read out. However, I would like to point out that strong commitments have been made within the framework of the Grenelle des violences conjugales and that the creation of 1000 additional places in 2020, which had been announced, has indeed taken place. The resources allocated to social monitoring in this area have also increased by 12.2 per cent. In addition, setting aside shelters for women victims of domestic violence remains a priority, but account must be taken of the overall budget of the shelter and social reintegration centres – CHRS – which is increasing significantly. A total of 14,000 places are long-term, benefiting, inter alia, women who are victims of domestic violence. Of course, the social support of these women in great difficulty is not always sufficient in the CHRS, but Housing first is another solution. These women often have children. Thanks to Mrs Schiappa's fight, many of them were able to benefit from this scheme, which has a total of 80000 beneficiaries. They were able to enter a dwelling directly rather than go first through emergency accommodation. This is proof that the Government's policy of favouring access to housing over all other options is the most enduring solution. I therefore propose, Mr Taché, that we meet before the next finance law to discuss the conditions for financing the scheme – and I recall that I obtained the increase in the accompanying price paid to family pension managers. I invite you to withdraw your amendment, dear colleague, but I understand your intention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u238	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u239	As I said, we are mobilized with Elizabeth Moreno to create 2000 additional places between 2020 and 2021. Action 12 "Accommodation and adapted housing" of programme 177 "Accommodation, journey to housing and integration of vulnerable people" has specific appropriations, an increase of more than 10%. We will ensure that this increase is able to meet the quantitative and qualitative needs, in order to increase the number of accommodation places while strengthening the support of women victims of domestic violence. The places offered under other schemes, such as Housing first, family pensions and rental intermediation, are also a good solution for these women, to which we will also pay attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u240	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u241	I have heard your answer: I will withdraw this amendment, since you propose that we work on the funding of social support for women victims of violence and on how we can act in their favour. It is still better to have a dedicated park. The Housing First scheme is perfect for this purpose, preferable to the 115 centres, as it is not easy for a woman forced to leave her home to arrive in a homeless centre, mixed with all other categories of people who may be homeless. The case of these women forced to leave their homes in haste is particular: pardon for this unfortunate expression, but they are not in the circuit of precariousness, of social emergency. I wanted to alert you on this point. Let's try to create dedicated places, I am obviously available to work on the accompaniment of these women.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u242	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 2546.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u243	It's almost the same, so I know your answer. The objective is the same: to improve the number and quality of places in shelters for women victims of violence; the observation also: 25 euros per day and per woman are not enough. The real cost would be around 56 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u244	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u245	Again, I ask for the amendment to be withdrawn: you could work on this with other colleagues like Aurélien Taché. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u246	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to support Amendment No. 2505.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u247	The aim of this amendment is, in general, to allocate more funds to the humanisation of CHRS. The very term "humanization" is revealing: it is a matter of renovating the emergency accommodation centres opened by the social UAS. Many are collective dormitories; in some, promiscuity is such that the homeless fear to go there. This year, the Ministry responsible for housing plans to spend substantial sums on renovation, which is a good thing: let us not forget that of these centres. It is highly commendable to set ecological transition targets; It is no less important to want a person who is on the street not to be afraid of going to an emergency accommodation centre, to be welcomed there in dignified conditions. We would therefore like to spend an additional EUR 16 million on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u249	I discover your amendment, which the committee was unable to examine: I learn there that the ANAH can finance the rehabilitation of emergency accommodation centres. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these shelters – the former "homes" – are often owned by legal entities in the HLM sector, which also receive funding for their renovation. So I'd like to know who you're going to get those 16 million. If they are to return to associative legal entities, which may have emergency accommodation centres, this funding would have to be sustainable: many associations have such facilities, but their exit prices normally take into account provisions for repairs and maintenance. Who and what would that money be for? In the absence of a reply from you, I would be tempted to express an unfavorable opinion in my personal capacity. However, as with your previous amendment, I am prepared to discuss it with you after the end of the sitting, in order to work on it for the next finance bill or even for second reading of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u251	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice. This amendment is very much satisfied. As the Special Rapporteur has said, ANAH has been carrying out a humanization programme since 2009 for accommodation centres with a budget of 8 million per year. Within the framework of France Relance, we have added 10 million over two years, in order to speed up this programme and extend it to structures that could not benefit from the ANAH funds: day reception centres, or those located in the overseas departments and regions. As a result, funding for humanisation has increased as a result of the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u252	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u253	In reply to the Special Rapporteur, a number of these centres belong to associations: it is not always HLM donors who have this land, this building. Since these are not new constructions, we can imagine that this humanisation work will be financed by programme 177. Madam Deputy Minister, you are right: a real effort is being made. Nevertheless, all associations, and in particular those that have joined together in the Federation of Solidarity Actors, believe that we could go much further in this humanisation programme. Moreover, as the Special Rapporteur has suggested in all sincerity, this ANAH appropriation line is little known; Many associations are unaware of its existence. If we were to give priority to the fact that all homeless housing centres are able to accommodate them with dignity, we could strengthen this budget, make it known, and support the associations that need it. That said, again, I withdraw my amendment and stand at your disposal to work on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u254	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 2548.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u255	Once again, it is very close to the previous amendment, but not identical. This amendment by Isabelle Santiago aims to increase the funding allocated to ANAH by EUR 8 million in order to pursue the objective of humanisation of reception and accommodation centres, including the health crisis and containment, which have shown that some are inadequate for health protection measures. In recent years, shelter systems have developed massively, but not in qualitative terms. The accommodation of homeless people sometimes violates their rights. As the Minister Delegate has said, France Relance plans to allocate €10 million to the humanisation of these structures, which will complement the ANAH's appropriations; But given the number of projects, an ambitious and sustainable plan is needed to ensure the quality of the accommodation and support of the people concerned, and the extension of this programme to day receptions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u256	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u257	Again, request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice. I do not see any more to whom these funds would be intended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u258	I call Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs to support Amendment No. 2606.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u259	This amendment aims to strengthen the appropriations for Action 12, "Accommodation and adapted housing", of Programme 177, and in particular those allocated to social monitoring. The latter makes it possible to establish contact with the homeless, to provide them with material aids, to take note of their accommodation needs, to offer them a first reception, to direct them to the accommodation, accompaniment and orientation structures. Under the 2021 budget, social watch appropriations are up 10.9 per cent. Although welcomed by the FAS, this new increase is considered insufficient in view of the massification of homelessness, the complexity of the situations of the persons concerned, the increase in attendance at daytime receptions. The economic consequences of the health crisis increase the risk of shifting from insecurity to extreme exclusion. It is important to restore resources to the whole supply for homeless people, from shelter to housing: that is why the appropriations for programmes 177, 135 and 109 are increasing. However, humanity requires us to strengthen them even further, in particular those devoted to the integrated reception and guidance services – SIAO – of the social UAS, especially for the management of 115 and the marauds. According to a number of consistent sources, the "stake-off rate" of 115 is only 20% of calls; According to a study carried out in January by the National Federation of Social UAS, 38% of homeless people have never used 115 and 56% of households say they do not have any current requests from an OIS. The FAS therefore pleads for an increase in resources and criminalizes in particular the understaffing of 115, which affects both the quantity and the quality of the answers, but also the working conditions of the listeners. The construction of social housing is an important objective; However, it is likely that the EUR 471 million earmarked for this purpose will not be fully consumed. I therefore propose that 15 million be allocated in order to strengthen the means of social monitoring.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u260	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u261	Thank you for considering the strengthening of OAIS as a priority. This is the Government's choice: we give them an increase of €18 million, or 12.2%, which represents 150 FTEs – full-time equivalents. In addition, EUR 10 million from the Solidarity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Mission, corresponding to around 100 FTEs, will be used to strengthen marauds. I understand the meaning of your amendment: you want to put on a priority, which is already ours. As the committee has not studied it, it is in my personal capacity that I request its withdrawal, especially since the minister-in-charge will have every interest in meeting with the representatives of the FAS, who inspired the three amendments that we have just examined. In the absence of a withdrawal, I regret to give an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u262	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u263	Same opinion. As part of this finance bill, we are making an additional effort to support OAIS. It is true that these information and guidance services are under pressure, in a rather strong way at this time of crisis; but we have planned a 10% increase in social watch appropriations, and in particular the funding of an additional 150 FTEs within these SAOIs, to help them cope with the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u264	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u265	Stakeholders are sensitive to this increase in appropriations; However, they will still be insufficient. I am almost certain that the 15 million for the construction of social housing which I ask you to report on the social watch will not be consumed, whereas the social watch needs are real and immediate. It is very violent, for a homeless person, to find no one at the end of the line. By the time the buildings are built, we can find the means to ensure a response on the phone! That is the purpose of this amendment, which I will not withdraw.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u266	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u267	No one denies the reality of the efforts made here or there, but this amendment deals with the particular question of 115. 115 is a drama! And it's not just a result of the crisis we've been experiencing in the last few months! Today, there are social services where ten people, at ten telephone stations, call all day to try to reach 115, while applicants are sometimes fifty or sixty waiting for 115 to pick up. Social workers spend an infinite amount of time trying to get an interlocutor at the end of the line. The aid granted to ACIS is not exclusive to that which must be provided at 115, on social watch, at reception. Frankly, to make this answer, you do not realize what the people who are on the street are going through first, and then those who are trying to take care of them – volunteers of marauds, associations, social workers, in short, all those who are mobilized, who are trying to find solutions. We would like to discourage volunteers, people who, with good heart, spend nights outside trying to help our fellow citizens, that we would not do otherwise. Irrespective of the current crisis, which aggravates the situation, this mechanism must be strengthened on an ongoing basis. It is not the production of housing that will solve the problem in the short term.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u268	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u269	I'll agree in the same direction. The situation of 115 has been dramatic for years in all departments. Listeners take an average of only one in ten calls. Go meet the social workers in your territories! Their work is particularly difficult in Mr. Little's constituency or in mine, where the situation in terms of emergency accommodation is particularly tense. Some are on the verge of depression and even ready to change jobs. We can't go on like this. Either they are given the means to work better, to take calls and to provide at least one first emergency response to the appellants, or they must stop counting with them. These social workers are very poorly paid and work under really difficult conditions. The EUR 15 million proposed would allow the teams to be expanded to take more calls, even if there is not always room for accommodation or accommodation to be offered. The appellants know that they have only one hour to reach 115, between six and seven in the morning. Passing this niche, it is not possible to reach anyone and there are no more accommodation spaces available. Fifteen million is no big deal either. Yes, efforts are being made on other programs, but social watch is the first contact for callers. The answer of the person who picks up the phone is the only thing that allows them not to lose hope completely. Let us vote for this amendment: this will be an encouragement for social workers who do very difficult work under strained wage conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u270	Mrs Claire Pitollat, in support of Amendment No 2276.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u271	This is an appeal amendment by Sandrine Mörch. It is not intended to cut spending on city policy by EUR 10 million, but to demonstrate the need for a cross-cutting policy on the budgeting of emergency accommodation. After the first confinement, we were able to make a triple observation. First, we need to identify audiences. The precarious situation does not only affect the homeless, unaccompanied minors, or young adults, or persons living in slums or squatters, or persons in prostitution. It concerns all these audiences. Secondly, there is the difficulty of taking qualitative measures. Emergency accommodation is one of several solutions, more or less expensive compared to the long-term care of people in precarious situations. The cost of a hotel overnight stay is 20 euros per person on average, compared to 14 for emergency accommodation. During a hearing, I heard an official from the interdepartmental delegation to accommodation and access to housing compare hotel stays with a hard drug, which is economically, socially and psychologically expensive and difficult to get rid of. Finally, a better structural organisation within the communities is needed to take charge of all these audiences. The implementation of sustainable measures for homeless and isolated persons is part of social prevention. We have everything to gain.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u272	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u273	I understand the meaning of your amendment, Madam Commissioner, but it has been rejected by the Committee on Finance. However, I heard that this was an appeal amendment. I would therefore like to ask the Deputy Minister to reply.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u274	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u275	Through this appeal amendment, you are asking the structural question of the acceleration of the Housing Plan first, to which I am very attached. This plan requires a larger housing offer, which explains the discussions we have had about social housing in PLAI or on rental intermediation in social housing. It also implies greater fluidity in the accommodation system, which involves the opening of both accommodation centres and hotel overnight stays, as much as necessary, because we are in a period of shelter. However, the recovery plan provides EUR 30 million for the creation of new emergency accommodation spaces and, in total, an additional EUR 100 million for the 177 programme. It is then the question of the ability to deal with requests that arises, which refers to the ACIS: 115, the marauds and all the steps of going to the public. The real aim of the Ministry and the Government is to strengthen this policy. We do so massively during this second confinement, just as we did during the first. Consignee has been passed on to all prefects to protect all those who wish and to strive towards the goal of zero unsatisfied demand, even if it is difficult to achieve. You can believe in my total commitment on this subject. The appropriations allocated to Program 177 are increasing this year, as they have increased in previous years, and we are also meeting its management needs as much as necessary. The whole housing policy is mobilised in the housing plan first. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u276	Mrs Pitollat, draftswoman for an opinion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u277	I withdraw the amendment, but I insist on the necessary control of the number of nights at the hotel. The current situation cannot continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u278	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 2547.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u279	This is not an appeal amendment. We are actually asking for €5 million for shelter and social reintegration centres, which are currently undergoing a budget savings plan. This has implications for staff, in particular social workers, whose role is to ensure the integration of the sheltered persons, for integration benefits, some of which are abolished, and even for the quality of food, which is deteriorating – not to mention the effects of the current health crisis. A moratorium on savings should enable consideration to be given to benefits and to the financing of housing and social reintegration centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u280	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u281	As the committee has not examined it, I cannot speak on its behalf about this amendment, of which I understand the meaning. I can tell you that, in the PLF for 2021, the appropriations allocated to the CHRS amount to 638 million euros. Moreover, the additional costs incurred by the covid-19 were, after negotiation, taken into account in the PLFR4. When the actors of solidarity told me about it, it seemed to me that, for once, negotiations with the State had gone well. I am therefore not sure that there is still a need to increase the appropriations. With regard to CHRS, I consider in particular that family pensions are of great interest. However, the State is making a major effort by increasing the resources allocated to their operation by 13 per cent. As a personal matter, I therefore ask for the amendment to be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have two amendments to consider. Those who wish to leave the Chamber can of course do so, but I invite them to be respectful of the last speeches before we adjourn the sitting. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u283	I'll be brief, given the schedule. We have actually launched, from 2018 onwards, a policy of tariff convergence. However, we have initially reduced the expected economy and this year we are suspending tariff convergence for establishments with higher tariffs than the ceilings. In addition, the budgeting of CHRS takes into account the revalorisation of the payroll. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u284	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u285	If there is a moratorium, I shall withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u286	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to support Amendment No. 2500, the last of the evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u287	If you will allow me, Mr President, I will also defend the following point 2504, by doing so very quickly. Our colleague Claire Pitollat has just recalled that hotel nights are not a solution. They are indeed a kind of hard drug for the state, because it is easier to house people at the hotel than to find housing and to open accommodation centres. So we keep people safe for one, two, three nights. The callers of 115 in Paris, even when they are women with children, are often sent to hotels in remote suburbs, run by sometimes unscrupulous people. Mothers do not even find something to prepare a meal for their children the next morning, and must go further two days later. We have to get out of this situation; This is the objective of the Housing First Plan, on which the Government is working. Calls have been made for new cities to commit themselves. The appropriations for calls for expressions of interest should enable local authorities to receive more housing. However, it is extremely important to strengthen social support as well and to ensure that after their entry into the housing system, the persons cared for are monitored by social workers who visit them, in order to prevent any return to the street. Amendment No 2500 is therefore intended to increase the appropriations allocated to social support. As for Amendment No 2504, it concerns domiciliation. It is very important that the mail of people who remain on the street because they have not found accommodation, accommodation or even a hotel room can be managed. The associations ensure this domiciliation – because many communal centres of social action do not do so, although it is a legal obligation. The associations therefore take care of the mail of homeless persons. They don't have any credits, no way to do that. We have to support them. It is the same associations that manage the calls to 115, the same social workers who take only one in ten calls and are sometimes forced to strike. Imagine: we are paid around 1500 euros a month, we take care of homeless people all day long and we decide not to take any more calls, to alert the state about the situation, about the social emergency we encounter! We need to hear this alert! On these two amendments, one asks for EUR 5 million and the other EUR 10 million. These are not very large sums, but they would improve the service offered to homeless people by associations, including a basic service: managing their mail.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u288	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u289	He's unfavorable. I will not speak on Amendment No 2504, because other amendments on the same subject follow. You'll have to come back tomorrow night to talk about it, Mr. Taché. As far as Amendment No 2500 is concerned, it seems to me that this is the very definition of the housing plan that you first set out in defending it. This plan is the priority of the Deputy Minister, it is budgeted, and I do not see how an additional EUR 10 million could support the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u290	There are holes in the racket!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u291	I'm not saying there's none, but just that this plan is a priority. Never in our country had such a system existed, and it worked: 80000 successes can be put to his credit since its launch! This result, which was not imaginable on these benches two years ago, corresponds to the estimate for the year 2020. This has led to the entry of persons who have left the street, but who have also left a shelter – including families and women who have been victims of domestic violence. I suggest that we continue to work in this direction. Common law appropriations have already been allocated over the period 2018-2010, amounting to EUR 18 million, to which EUR 15 million have been added. You'll tell me that we can always put more money on, but it seems to me today that the system is working. In my personal capacity, I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, but I would like to hear from the Deputy Minister on the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u292	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u293	With regard to Amendment No 2500, I refer you to my reply to Amendment No 2276. It is indeed the whole housing policy that I refer to you first through this appeal amendment, and I believe I have responded. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion for the same reasons. As for Amendment No 2504, I will give an answer to it which will be valid for all the following amendments on home ownership, even if they are dealt with tomorrow night. I agree with you on the importance of housekeeping. The Prime Minister announced a strengthening of the resources allocated to him under the new measures to prevent and combat the shift in poverty. The new measure for housing will be financed by a thawing of the precautionary reserve of programme 304 "Social inclusion and protection of persons" of the mission "Solidarity, integration and equal opportunities". The purpose of the amendment is therefore satisfied, up to the amount requested, without the need to create a new programme. It is indeed the 304 programme of my colleague Olivier Véran, Minister for Solidarity and Health, which carries this policy. I therefore call for the withdrawal of this amendment as well as of all the others. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u294	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u295	As far as housing policy is concerned, there are, of course, credits, but they are intended to finance engineering for local authorities and municipalities, in order to enable them to receive housing. Rather, my amendment is aimed at strengthening the social accompanying measures that can be applied by social workers. As far as homeownership is concerned, while I understand the answer given by the Deputy Minister, the associations will now be financed in a specific way, thanks to a thaw of appropriations. So far, the associations have never been financed by the State for this action. If this is the case now, I will withdraw my amendment – no matter what budget line the corresponding appropriations will come from – but I would like the minister to confirm that the state is going to finance the implementation by the housing associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u296	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u297	Amendment No 2500 raises a question which differs somewhat from the previous ones. The Housing first plan is a good device. It is not the first: it takes over social and other residences, being a little different and of a greater scope. In any case, this is a very socially sensitive subject, and we cannot consider that there is nothing more to do when we have the walls. Of course, the walls are an indispensable prerequisite, but we must also provide support to the people to whom the houses in question are intended, so that they can rebuild themselves by having a roof above their head, get closer to employment, free themselves from the violence that they have been subjected to before and possibly treat themselves. However, it is clear from our experience that the funds devoted to this support are currently insufficient: this is why this amendment, aimed at strengthening social support, seems to me to be very relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u298	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u299	With regard to home ownership, a subject that we have been interested in for some time now, associative actors, as well as the communal centres for social action, are mobilised and commit important means to ensure that people without a stable home, who need it, are officially domiciled in order to assert their rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u300	What do you mean, we're lifting the session? If I had known, I too would have taken the time to defend my amendments! I played the game!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u301	I don't like it either!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u302	Of course, the funding of the resources committed must be secured and, as the Special Rapporteur of the 304 programme "Solidarity, inclusion and equal opportunities", I would like to be sure that I understand from which budget line the appropriations will come. I understand that appropriations are going to be frozen, but I would like to know, on the one hand, whether the amount is indeed EUR 7.5 million, in accordance with the commitment of EUR 15 million over two years announced by the Prime Minister, and, on the other hand, whether this is a thawing of appropriations from programme 304 for 2020, which will be carried forward to 2021 and then to 2022 for the next PLF, with a possible adjustment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u303	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u304	With regard to Amendment No 2500, I would point out that the Housing Plan first provides for accompanying appropriations, in particular in the form of a reinforcement of the National Support Fund to and in housing, with EUR 15 million per year from social donors from 2020, as well as a reinforcement of mobile teams and daytime receptions – EUR 5 million in 2019, EUR 4 million in 2020 and EUR 4 million in 2021 – and a reinforcement of the appropriations dedicated to rental intermediation and family pensions, two mechanisms accompanied in 2021. The Housing first plan therefore includes credits dedicated to accompaniment, and not only to walls and equipment. As far as housing is concerned, the continuation of the anti-poverty plan provides for an additional EUR 15 million, spread over two years, 2021 and 2022, for the 304 programme. In 2021, this is the anticipated thawing, which is now planned at the level of €7.5 million, of the 304 programme; for 2022, the budgetary solution will lie either in the original finance law or in the recovery plan – in both cases on the 304 programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u305	Do you maintain your amendments, Mr. Taché?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u306	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u307	The President of the National Assembly received a letter from the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament informing him of the continuation of the discussion of the mission "Cohesion of the territories" Saturday, 7 November, afternoon and evening, after the final reading of the bill extending the state of health emergency and the possible continuation of the discussion of the missions devoted to the economy. The continuation of the budget discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-06-O1065.u308	Next meeting, this morning, at nine o'clock: Continuation of the second part of the 2021 Finance Bill: Review of appropriations for the "Economy" mission. The meeting is adjourned.
