ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u2	Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau has the floor to put his question, No. 938, on white areas in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u3	I will mention here the issue of mobile and internet coverage of the territory in Anjou, particularly in the third constituency of Maine-et-Loire but, more broadly, throughout the department and even in all rural areas in France. The white areas exist: unfortunately, many communes are not yet covered – or at least not properly. The recent announcement of the deployment of 5G is, of course, good news for France's competitiveness, but we cannot be very happy about it when we know that not all inhabitants benefit, even today, from 4G or even 3G. How can we consider using new technologies in our town halls for administrative purposes or making them available to businesses, farmers or professionals – I am thinking in particular of doctors who move in the countryside – if not all territories, especially rural ones, benefit from the same means as urban areas? The State bears a real responsibility for the current inequality: local elected officials can invest heavily with operators, but unfortunately, in the absence of national dynamics, things will not change. Every time the subject is mentioned, beautiful promises are made to us, but they are not followed by effect! Would it be a pious wish to hope that 5G will develop first in rural areas, before extending to urban areas? According to the maps published by ARCEP, the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques et des postes, Maine-et-Loire would not encounter any difficulties, or almost any difficulties. It must be noted that the reality is very different. It seems to me that we must stop basing ourselves on maps representing the areas seen from above: the waves move horizontally from the antennas, not vertically from the satellites. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us what your concrete objectives are in order to cover the entire territory completely within a time limit which must now be short?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u4	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u5	As you said, MP: there are still white areas – it would be madness to pretend the opposite. As you know, the Government is paying particular attention to this issue, which is reflected in the New Mobile Deal announced on 14 January 2018. The agreement, passed between the Government, ARCEP and the operators, aims to generalize quality coverage, giving priority to genuine digital spatial planning. Mobile operators have made commitments in terms of mobile coverage and quality of service, which have been made mandatory when transcribing them in the form of cover obligations in authorisations for the use of frequencies. This is a major point in meeting the deadlines and commitments made. Any failure to comply with the obligations of mobile operators may be subject to sanctions by ARCEP, under the conditions laid down in the Post and Electronic Communications Code. We are also deploying a mechanism for identifying and prioritizing the needs for coverage by departmental "project" teams, which bring together the departments of the State and local authorities; The Government shall draw up annually, in consultation with the territorial authorities, lists of areas to be covered by the operators under the targeted coverage scheme. The National Agency for the Cohesion of the Territories, the ANCT, ensures the operational follow-up of the scheme and assists the communities in their identification of the areas to be covered. With this tool, communities have a lever to target places where they want a new 4G tower to be rapidly deployed. We install about a hundred of them a week. In addition, the New Deal mobile requires 4G equipment from all existing sites by the end of 2020 and, as an exception, from all "white areas" by the end of 2022 – which answers your question about deadlines. ARCEP has published since June 2018 a scoreboard to monitor the evolution of mobile coverage in the territories, including the significant progress made in recent months. I can assure you, honourable Member, that the ANC services can, if you wish, work with you, in conjunction with the local elected representatives, to better identify the areas you mentioned in your department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u6	Mr Jean-Charles Taugordeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u7	I am pleased to accept this appointment, Secretary of State, which will allow the services of the ANCT to come and see how things are going with us. I just want to point out to the state service that the Americans recently launched a rocket containing 60 satellites, in order to cover the areas of the globe that remained unlinked. It seems to me that we could have added the means, and rather than focusing solely on fibre, cable or antennas, we could have used the satellite as well. If the latter were perceived, fifteen years ago, as having neither sufficient capacity nor sufficient speed, the technologies have since evolved, and I believe that France now has areas whose connection should be ensured by satellite.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u8	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor to put his question, No. 935, on the energy transition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u9	My constituency, located south of Grenoble, is a historically industrial territory. It is the cradle of the "white coal", the other name of hydro-electricity, this electrical energy produced from waterfalls and dams. Powered by hydro-electricity from the rivers of the Alpine furrow, many industries, such as stationery, have developed; Electrochemistry and electrometallurgy have emerged. Great industrialists and eminent professors have made the reputation of the university domain of Saint-Martin-d'Hères and Gières. Grenoble Alpes University has been able to capitalize on this history to become a world-class university. My riding is home to several energy-intensive industrial sites, which are called "hyper-electro-intensive" – HEI. I am thinking of the electrochemical platform of Jarrie and Champs-sur-Drac, with in particular the company Arkema or, in the vicinity, the company Ferromem, including the plant of Clavaux, in Livet-et-Gavet, produces silicon. For these HEI sites, electrical energy is a raw material. They face a twofold challenge: to secure long-term contracts with electricity suppliers to ensure a stable and sustainable price and to ensure the sustainability of activities and jobs; and to offer a potential for electrical erasure, essential to the balance of the grid, particularly for the management of peaks and peaks of consumption. Multi-annual energy programming has set a target of 4.5 gigawatts of erasure by 2023. This potential for erasure can be undermined by uncertainties about the price of electricity that will apply to HEI manufacturers. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell us what measures the Government has taken to ensure the stability of the energy price, thus ensuring the maintenance of industrial activities and corresponding jobs in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u10	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u11	As you have rightly pointed out, Mr President, the sustainability of the HEI industries – of which Ferromem is a company – is strategic in maintaining the activity of these employment pools. Their competitiveness is structuring for the French industry as a whole, since they supply our production chains and our industrial tool with processed materials, in a context of increasing international competition. France has taken many measures, from which the industrialists concerned benefit. I am thinking in particular of the scheme to enhance the flexibility of consumption or the reduction in the rate of use of public electricity networks. We therefore pay particular attention to the competitiveness of these economic actors. With regard to hydrogen, as you know, the Government has set itself a structural objective in the construction of our industrial policy: achieving carbon neutrality in 2050. We hope that France will develop the technologies that will enable us to evolve in a decarbonized world in the future. As such, the strategic nature of hydrogen technology development has been well identified. These technologies seem to be a dual challenge, both economic – because they offer the opportunity to create an industrial and environmental ecosystem – through the solutions they provide to decarbonize industry and transport. The emergence of new hydrogen-related markets opens up industrial prospects that need to be anticipated in the short, medium and long term. We have therefore supported the development of the hydrogen sector to the tune of €90 million in 2019, as part of our accompanying plan. In order to prepare a new programme of support for the sector and new actions in 2020, we launched last week a call for expressions of interest. I have no doubt that the actors you mentioned, Mr President, will be quick to respond. The teams of the Ministry of Economy and Finance are in contact with all the industrialists in the sector – notably the Michelin Group – and are trying to identify with them the levers favourable to the development of a French industrial offer, in the continuity of the accompanying plan. Our ambition, reaffirmed on several occasions in the framework of the construction of the 2025 productive pact, is simple: we want to create jobs and support industrial and technological sovereignty that allows us to chart our way towards a carbon-free economy. The activities you mentioned are important elements of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u12	Mr Jean-Charles Colas-Roy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u13	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your response and for your determination to pursue a proactive industrial policy in support of hydropower and the development of new energies, such as green hydrogen. For the first time in years, France is again creating jobs in the industry: we can be proud of them. Let us support and invest in our dams – I know that you are working on a European scale to defend the maintenance of an optimised exploitation of our hydro-electric production structures. Support the HEI industries: this is good for employment, in sometimes fragile territories, for the environment – with local production and innovative and controlled processes – and for our economy and trade balance. Finally, let us support the industrial erasure, which is both good for the balance of our network and beneficial for the environment, as it makes it possible to dispense with the production of electricity emitting greenhouse gases. Our policy of supporting industry is very important for employment areas such as the country of Vizillois and makes it possible to support a whole fabric of subcontractors, who depend on the development of HEI – boilermakers, metalworkers, artisans, or even maintainers. Finally, I would like to recall the importance of the university for the attractiveness of a territory. Saint-Martin-d'Hères and Gières have the chance to welcome a component of Grenoble Alpes University, which is a group of universities, which cultivates the links between training, research and industry, to innovate and show that high technology and industry can develop in synergy, as hydraulics and hydrogen will do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u14	The next speaker is Mr Gabriel Serville, to put his question, No 926, on overseas economic regulation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u15	With its 312 kilometres of coastline and 126000 square kilometres of exclusive economic zone located at the heart of the three markets: MERCOSUR – the Common Market of the South –, CARICOM – the Caribbean Community – and the European Union, Guyana has undeniable assets to integrate into the global blue economy. The difficulty is that the siltation of the coast requires infrastructure adapted to the reception of container carriers. However, the main port of commerce in Guyana is currently located at the mouth of a river whose daily dredging of access channels results in a substantial annual additional cost – about 8 million euros. While regional cabotage is one of the routes studied to develop port activity – whose organic dynamics already show 24% growth in five years – the ambition was born to provide Guyana, by 2030, with a deep water port, located off the coast. This project appears today at a halt, while the widening of the Panama Canal and the saturation of the port of Santana in Brazil make it possible to envisage a sharp increase in traffic in Guyana in the years to come. Moreover, Guyana does not currently have a border inspection post – PIF – to control imports of animal and plant products from countries outside the European Union. The result is a completely ludicrous situation, since all imports of this type are forced to transit through Europe before being sent to Guyana. For example, a fruit from the Brazilian city of Macapá, located 500 kilometres from Cayenne, has to cross the globe and takes 45 days to reach the Guiana displays through the legal channel. The dossier for the creation of the PIF of Guyana is closed; We have obtained the approval of the European Union. Only the share of government funding is missing, amounting to €2.3 million. Mr Secretary of State, the outcome of these two cases will have a direct impact on the cost of shipping to and from Guyana, and therefore on the local level of prices. I would therefore ask you to inform us of their progress and to reassure us of your engagement with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u16	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u17	Mr President, you are asking an extremely precise question about the development of a port in Guyana and the share of State funding. However, the oral question you tabled in writing simply stated that "Mr Gabriel Serville is questioning the Minister for Overseas Affairs on the cost of living overseas and the application of Article 4 of the Law of 20 November 2012 on Overseas Economic Regulation and on various provisions relating to overseas trade". I can, at this stage, answer this question by recalling the content of section 4 of the Act of 20 November 2012, but you will easily understand, I am sure, that I am unable to make the commitments you are asking me concerning such a specific dossier, which is followed by my colleague Minister for Overseas Affairs. I therefore propose that, in order to avoid ridicule, I should like to have the text of your question, which I shall immediately transmit to Mrs Annick Girardin, Minister for Overseas Affairs, so that an answer can be given to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u18	Mr. Gabriel Serville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u19	Secretary of State, I would like to express my surprise, because I took the precaution to send the right question. No doubt there has been a problem with the transmission of information between the Overseas Ministry and yourself. I understand, however, that you are not in a position to improvise this morning an answer to such a specific question, because this answer would oblige you. I will therefore take the services of the Minister for Overseas Affairs to try to understand why the real question that I asked this morning did not come to you – which I am very sorry about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u20	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to raise her question, No. 949, concerning the opening of large areas without staff on Sundays and evenings.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u21	I would like to refer to one of the diseases of capitalism, which is worrying and has a direct impact on our economic and social life: the opening of large areas on the evenings of the week and on Sundays, with automatic caisses instead of staff, and its impact on employees and customers. This is a problem that I know well, for having been asked by the staff in the constituency of which I am elected; This was done in two communes, Fontaine and Saint-Martin-d'Hères. The consequences are real. In the evening, security personnel, far too few for such large areas, are quickly overwhelmed. Flights are therefore frequent and, beyond their economic impact, endanger the safety of the premises. The next morning, employees must spend their time refurbishing the premises after the shelves were sacked the previous day. The law is not really respected, since minors have almost free access to the alcohol range, with all the risks that are known to public health and safety – not to mention the risk of fire, because employees, supposed to supervise customers if they have to evacuate the store, are obviously not present. In short, the peace of mind is no longer there. It is also a change in company model that is imposed on employees and customers. The human disappears in favour of automatic caisses, without any other reason than the permanent search for profitability – which is however quite relative given the phenomena that I have just described to you. The Casino Group asserts that this approach is a response to e-commerce and will allow customers to return. In view of the consequences and the return of experience of the employees, let me doubt it. At a time when we are collectively questioning the harms of overconsumption and its impact on the environment, such an approach is a particularly negative signal, which also raises the question of the precarisation of employment and the challenge of wage-earning activity, which is directly threatened by the extension of these poorly regulated automation processes. Of course, we have to ask ourselves: to what need, in fact, can this answer? Is shopping at midnight really a social progress? Mr Secretary of State, what can you do to put an end to these harmful practices not only for the lives of employees, but also for the lives of customers, and to combat the harm caused by this overconsumption logic?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u22	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u23	Madam Member, you are calling the Government's attention to the situation of large areas of food that open without staff on Sunday afternoons and on weekends until midnight. The Government is fully aware of this issue, which, as you stress, is not without difficulties, sometimes numerous and heterogeneous, including with regard to compliance with existing legislation and regulations. Although the Labour Code prohibits food businesses from employing employees on Sundays after 13.00 hours, it does not prevent them from opening the afternoon with automatic caisses, provided, however, that there is no prefectural order for the weekly closure of these businesses on Sundays. These opening experiments with automatic caisses on Sunday afternoon and at night are carried out with security staff, but difficulties such as those you mentioned may exist. These security personnel may work on Sundays, as they enjoy a derogation from the right to Sunday rest in connection with surveillance and guarding activities. However, it is important that they are exclusively concerned with security and that they do not, in practice, carry out assistance activities with customers in cash. Otherwise, this would constitute an infringement of the principle of Sunday rest, which may be punished by the labour inspectorate. If, moreover, they are allowed to work at night because they carry out an activity of protection of property and persons, there must nevertheless be a collective agreement governing the use of such workers at night; Failing this, this remedy must have been authorised by the labour inspector. However, both at night and on Sunday afternoon, these personnel may not perform duties other than those related to supervision, since any assistance activity to clients in cash can be considered as a means of diverting public order rules relating to night work – regardless of whether these security personnel are covered by a collective agreement. This is why the labour inspectorates carry out checks on signs which use these opening arrangements. These controls, which have been carried out in more than 13 departments, are monitored at national level and have given rise to summons in order to ensure compliance with the legislation. For the cases you have cited, we will refer them to the prefect of the department, so that the state services can also coordinate their action and ensure that all the regulations are respected in the signs you have cited.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u24	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, but the situation I have just mentioned also poses a broader problem: things can also happen when these large areas are removed and the mayors are concerned about the responsibility they may have. They must ensure supervision, at their expense, in order to guarantee safety; Such an obligation should not be based on the community. With regard to inside-store surveillance, security officers are present, but very few are present for such large areas. I have seen photos showing that the alcohol radius, which must be isolated and not accessible, is simply covered with a blue plastic tarpaulin, and therefore, it seems to me, almost in free access, which poses real problems both of compliance with the regulations and of safety.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u26	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor to put her question, No. 929, on the generalization of free employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u27	My question is for the Minister of Labour. After a first experimental phase, free employment has been widespread since 1 January 2020 throughout the national territory, in all neighbourhoods covered by the city's policy. This is above all a measure to promote equal opportunities. It will allow many young people who are still too often discriminated against, even when they graduate, to finally integrate professionally and to see a real prospect for the future. I am therefore pleased to see that, tomorrow, the QPV – the priority areas of city policy – of the Dijonnaise metropolis will be able to benefit from this mechanism. This measure is also a measure in favour of social justice. Its leading role is the development of employment in all our territories; its basic principle is the "win-win" for both the job seeker and the company hiring. Indeed, in these territories, there are talents that ask only to express themselves and that meet the needs of companies. The State has identified considerable resources in the last two budgets. The financial aid for the hiring of an employee in QPV in CDI – an indefinite contract – amounts to EUR 5000 per year over three years and EUR 2500 per year over two years for a CDD – a fixed-term contract. Since their spread, therefore, free jobs are more than ever an integral part of the policy that we have been pursuing for two years now, and which contributes to the relentless fight against mass unemployment. However, in order to make this generalisation as efficient as possible, it is essential that companies have access to these frank jobs, with the necessary information. So what are the communication tools that will be deployed to the economic world, as well as the various accompanying measures that will make it possible for companies to take advantage of this mechanism?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u28	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u29	As you have pointed out, frank jobs are a strong and concrete response to the difficulties of access to employment faced by many people in priority neighbourhoods. It is a real boost to hiring to combat discrimination against them. The scheme is a success: the experimental phase reached a figure of more than 18700 signed free jobs, 80 per cent of which was CDI, which was the objective sought. Despite these very satisfactory results, frank jobs can still become more widely known in the economic world. The generalization of the measure to all the priority areas of city policy will only facilitate this large-scale communication. In order to contribute to this increase in the awareness of the system, we have set up a communication kit, comprehensive and widely distributed to our relays to the economic and associative world. Everywhere in the new territories, the prefects mobilize to value the signing of the first contracts and communicate on the remarkable hiring opportunities resulting from this measure. These beautiful stories – if you allow me this expression – are taken up by the local and regional press and encourage employers and beneficiaries to use the free jobs scheme. In addition, Pôle Emploi invests heavily in the launch of the scheme in all the new territories, in order to make the employers aware of free employment and to offer them end-to-end support, including for all administrative arrangements, so that each job opportunity can be realised in free employment. Finally, the local missions are a new relay to make the measure known because, since 1 January 2020, young people from priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy and monitored in these structures are eligible for free employment without conditions of registration at the employment centre, which obviously broadens the spectrum of the public likely to be reached. The Government therefore simplifies access to this mechanism, and we are confident that it is becoming increasingly well known, which has been gaining momentum for several months. The Government therefore shares your enthusiasm; I would also like to thank you for having been at the origin of this measure with several of your colleagues. You have to recognize it and, above all, thank you for it for the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u30	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u31	Thank you, Secretary of State, for these positive and positive answers. I call on companies to mobilize massively around this mechanism, in favour of those territories which are an integral part of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u32	Mr Hervé Berville has the floor to put his question, No. 927, on the Lamballe-Dinan-Dol-de-Bretagne line.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u33	Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Solidarity Transition, responsible for transport, the modernization of the Lamballe-Dinan-Dol-de-Bretagne railway line, entered into the State-Region Plan contract 2015-2020, is an important issue for our territory, the Côtes-d'Armor and, more broadly, for the Breton territory. Indeed, the slowing down, or even stopping, caused by the poor condition of this almost 100-year-old line has made this renovation an urgent necessity. The Dol-de-Bretagne-Dinan section has already been renovated in 2013 between Dinan and Pleudihen-sur-Rance. Work on the Pleudihen-sur-Rance section in Dol-de-Bretagne has been under way since December 2019; They should last a year. The aim now is to ensure the complete renovation of the line, and hence the rehabilitation of the Dinan-Lamballe section, as soon as possible. In his speech to Quimper on 21 June 2018, the President of the Republic reiterated that the commitments made under the State-region plan contracts concerning the Territory's fine service lines should be fulfilled. This is the case with the Dol-Dinan-Lamballe link. This commitment was renewed when the accessibility pact between the Brittany region and the State was signed a year ago on February 8. You are witnessing this every day in the field: the network of secondary lines has too often suffered from underinvestment for about thirty years. Now – and you're on the front line on this – there are significant ways in which you can and will still have to do this to renovate and develop the so-called "small lines". This new priority given to the proximity network is a necessity for the service of our territories and for territorial cohesion. This is a decision that we can only welcome. In this context and following in particular the report of the Prefect François Philizot on the future of small lines, what guarantees can you give on the renovation project of the Dinan-Lamballe section? Can you confirm that the financial commitments of the 2015-2020 State-Region Plan Contract, whose mobility component has been extended until 2022, will be respected and that the decisive support of the State will remain at the same level?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u34	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u35	Mr President, I am fully aware of the strong local expectations regarding the fine rail lines in the territory, and in particular the Dol-de-Bretagne-Dinan-Lamballe line, which provides service to the north of the Côtes-d'Armor and connects with Saint-Brieuc. It is in order to meet these expectations, many at national level, as to the future of regional lines that the State has undertaken a partnership approach with each of the regions, Regions of France and SNCF Réseau in order to seek the most relevant line-by-line solution. This approach, which is based on the mission led by Prefect François Philizot, is intended to lead to concerted action plans between the State and each region to shape the future of these lines. This is the case for the Brittany region, whose plan will include the Dol-de-Bretagne-Dinan-Lamballe line. For the regeneration of this line, 62 million euros are now planned, of which 12.4 million are provided by the State under the contract of the State-Region Plan 2015-2020 of Brittany, the mobility component of this agreement being extended until 2022. On this particular point, the State has had the opportunity to confirm its commitment several times since the speech of the President of the Republic of 21 June 2018 in Quimper, notably through the signing of the accessibility and mobility pact for Brittany on 8 February 2019. Ms Élisabeth Borne, then minister responsible for transport, also informed you by letter of 3 July 2019 that the appropriations guaranteeing the signing of the financing agreement for the work of the section linking Dol-de-Bretagne to Pleudihen had been released. In fact, the State has contributed almost EUR 5.6 million in 2019 to finance this work, which has started and will take place under closure until 13 December 2020. For the Dinan-Lamballe section, regeneration studies should continue until the end of 2020. As soon as the results are known, we will have a reliable amount of work, which will allow all financiers, including the State, to confirm the level of their commitment. Be assured, Mr President, that I will remain very attentive to the complete regeneration and sustainability of this line.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u36	Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u37	Thank you, Secretary of State, for recalling the need for a sustained and sustained commitment by the State. To ensure that these small lines, these fine desserts are viable, sustainable and frequented – because that is at stake – two issues are important. First, funding: as you have pointed out, the government's funding will be up to date and the commitments will of course be fulfilled. Secondly, the timetable: I would like to stress that it must be the subject of an in-depth discussion with SNCF Réseau, which is, together with the State and the region, the third actor concerned. Finally, I want to thank you for taking the time to give us these detailed answers. I know that we will continue to work on these important issues for our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u38	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to put his question, No 922, on the situation at Radio France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u39	Mr Minister of Culture, while Radio France is currently experiencing the longest strike in its history, it would have been until Friday, January 31, 60 days of mobilization, for you to receive the management and the unions of this public institution. Now that you seem to be more concerned about this situation, I would like to ask you about several aspects of your savings plan. Last week, on the benches of the Assembly, we were many to welcome the opening of negotiations proposed by Mrs Sibyle Veil. But we are not fooled: a suspension is not a withdrawal. If the management of Radio France, with your approval, changes the method, the objective is always the same: to reduce the wage bill to meet your budgetary austerity requirements. FIP stations in Bordeaux, Nantes and Strasbourg close. The public audiovisual service thus disappears from the regions while the private audiovisual sector opens antennas in Lille – as we have seen in recent days – Lyon or Toulouse, as in other regions before. You have reduced the audio-visual fee by one euro, resulting in the loss of 27 million euros of resources to Radio France. Do you really think that such an insignificant measure for the purchasing power of French and French people justifies the abolition of posts, the endangerment of public radio and its artistic creation in general? You justify the social plan, against which the employees are fighting, by the need to finance new expenditure on digital development, estimated at 20 million euros, 7 less than what you generously redistributed. Concerned about your acrobatic management, I would like you to provide me with details of the allocation of this $20 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u40	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u41	The Government has a great ambition for public broadcasting. We have never needed it as much as we do today, in terms of education, information, social cohesion, culture, the influence of France in the world and its proximity. That is why we are going to propose to the National Assembly very soon a bill that will enable this ambition to be clearly reflected in the facts, to reaffirm in the law the missions of public service but also to give the public audiovisual sector the opportunity to adapt to the digital revolution, which has led to a revolution in usage, by creating a public group that will bring together Radio France, France Télévisions, the Institut national de l'audiovisuel – INA – and France Médias Monde. As part of the financial trajectory 2018-2022, the management of Radio France has proposed a strategic reorganization plan which provides for the abolition of a number of posts, without dry lay-offs, in order to better meet these ambitions. I met again a few days ago with the trade union organizations of Radio France, as I had the opportunity to do on 20 December at a ministerial technical committee in which I reaffirmed the Government's ambition for public broadcasting, but also the fact that we were asking Radio France to make an effort of 20 million by 2022. I recalled that I trusted his management to propose, in connection with trade union organisations, a transformation of the company in the service of the revolution of usages as well as public service missions. We are really listening to everyone, starting with the trade unions and Radio France teams. However, it is not up to the State to decide on the concrete organisation of public audiovisual undertakings; In fact, you are the first to demand the independence of the public audiovisual sector from political power. It is only up to the latter to set the ambition and the budgetary framework. To the management of public companies – in this case Radio France – in connection with trade union organisations, to define their organisation very precisely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u42	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u43	It is a pity that you are displacing yourself on the direction of Radio France while it is you who are going to create a new ORTF – French Broadcasting Office. And it is the Government's road map – whether it is yours or Bercy's – that must be followed by the management of the public enterprise. You did not answer my question about the details of the $20 million allocation. Please be aware, however, that if the adjustment variable were to be the wage bill again, the notice of strike which I believe has been lifted would take effect again. I hope then that you will continue to discuss with the unions and management to get out of this conflict from the top. In any case, we will support the struggle of Radio France personnel, who alert us to the breakdown of the public service that you are leading. Radio France is, as you have just said, a flagship of our culture, and that is why we wish for this company more development and, unlike you, less insecurity. Your project is, I repeat, to reborn ORTF – which had disappeared in 1974 – but in a private version this time. We may try, here as elsewhere, to make a public service a very profitable company and then better sell it to the private sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u44	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u45	Of course, I cannot agree with you. We have a great ambition for the public audiovisual industry. When the Government needs it, we're on our way. Look at the situation regarding the work of the Maison de la Radio, which, unfortunately, is not finished. We have taken the decision to finance the additional cost of EUR 43 million, outside the financial path provided for in the target and means contract. We also decided to support Radio France's request to include many stations in the RNT network, terrestrial digital radio, starting with FIP. It is therefore not a question of being less ambitious for this station, but rather of giving it the opportunity to be very accessible to our compatriots through a digital network which, I would like to stress, is national. Mr Larive, we are systematically on the side of the public audiovisual sector, which does not prevent us, on the one hand, from creating a public group able to better face the challenges of the sector and, on the other hand, from charting a financial path; It certainly requires an effort, but it seems to us to be sustainable as the company transforms. I salute the trade union organisations, all of which have today lifted their notice of strike. I know that an important discussion and negotiation with management remains to be carried out to ensure that this transformation takes place at the service of the teams and the public of Radio France, as well as at the service of the missions of a public service to which we are all attached.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u46	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor to put his question, No. 939, on the public service of justice in Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u47	Madam Keeper of the Seals, justice remains, in Mayotte, a relegated institution. The development of local society and its appeal for genuine democracy require, on the one hand, the rise in the human and material resources of an administrative tribunal capable of dealing with the exponential development of judicial activity and, on the other hand, the creation of a full-fledged court of appeal to bring justice closer to the people. In addition, Mayotte is, to my knowledge, the only region in France where justice does not own its own premises. These considerations require, with the aim of building the true rule of law to which every citizen aspires, including in the overseas communities, the adoption of a genuine plan for the development of justice in Mayotte, the hundred-first French department. That is why I ask you very simply whether you are considering, and according to what timetable, first of all to make the detached chamber of the Court of Appeal of La Réunion in Mayotte a court of appeal of full exercise, second to develop the human and material means of the administrative court by the creation of an administrative court proper to Mayotte, thirdly to build a courthouse on the archipelago and fourthly to create studies of bailiffs and notaries there, so that the litigants have access to their judge, bailiff or notary, when they need them. You probably know better than I do that the Constitutional Council has declared article 706-71 of the Code of Criminal Procedure not in conformity with the Constitution. You keep it, in another version, in Mayotte and refuse to have it repealed. But here and everywhere else, we need a rule of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u48	The next speaker is Ms. Custody of Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u49	Justice in Mayotte and access to justice in the Mahorais are a real concern for us. I will be going to Mayotte very soon to dialogue with the authorities and the elected representatives. You're asking me not about one, but about four issues relating to justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u50	This is a global issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u51	That's how I hear it. With regard first of all to the creation of the Court of Appeal, Mayotte has had, since 2011, a separate Appeals Chamber from the Court of Appeal of Saint-Denis de La Réunion, located in Mamoudzou. It has full jurisdiction in civil and criminal matters and, for this reason, provides the Mahorian litigants with a court of appeal of proximity and quality. This organization seems satisfactory to me since the volume of cases dealt with each year by the Mayotte Appeals Chamber seems too small, compared to the existing courts, to consider its transformation into a court of appeal. For example, in the civil field, the volume of cases handled in 2018 represents 22% to 26% of the civilian activity of the smallest existing appeal courts. With regard to the development of the administrative court's human and material resources, at the end of 2019, only fourteen cases dating back more than two years remained to be dealt with, i.e. 1% of the total stock of the court. The average time taken for cases to be decided by the Administrative Court is just over a year. It is almost three months below the national average of the administrative courts. It seems to me, therefore, that the Mahorais benefit from high-quality administrative justice. Nevertheless, the Registry will be strengthened by the creation of an additional post. A post of magistrate will also be created. With regard to the construction of a courthouse in Mayotte, I entrusted to the Public Agency for the Real Estate of Justice the completion of preliminary studies for the construction in Mamoudzou of a new courthouse which will bring together the detached chamber of the court of appeal, the judicial court, the labour court and the joint commercial court. Land research for the successful implementation of the project has already been undertaken. As for the creation of studies of judicial officers and notaries in Mayotte, the subsidiary offices seem the most pragmatic way to develop this public service. I specify that Mayotte has benefited very recently from the opening of an annex office attached to an office of notary of Saint-Pierre, the opening of an annex office attached to an office of judicial officer of Saint-Denis, the opening of an office of clerk of commercial court. Finally, the opening of an additional auxiliary office attached to an office of judicial officer of Saint-Denis is envisaged soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u52	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u53	You will understand that I cannot be satisfied with your answer, minister. I do not think that we have the same apprehension of the ground. You're putting forward numbers as I tell you about what I'm living. You are not unaware that when a Mayotte litigant appeals to the investigating chamber or has to go to the appeal court, he is obliged to go to La Réunion, at his expense. I saw him as a lawyer; Of course, it doesn't necessarily correspond to the notes you're written. Time is running out, so I'm telling you frankly: I expected you to do something else, even though I know that in Macronia it is very difficult to get satisfactory answers to the opposition's questions. The offices of notaries and bailiffs to which you refer are to La Réunion and therefore, when looking for a bailiff, it is often necessary to wait, in Mayotte, the following week because they come intermittently. The Mayotte Administrative Court has a much larger volume of cases to deal with than that of La Réunion. The magistrates are still in La Réunion and never in Mayotte. Indeed, in Mayotte, they suffer insecurity; We can't house them. And the same applies to the Court of Appeal. Prior to the département, Mayotte had a higher court of appeal, i.e. a full court of appeal. So we're in the middle of a regression! And if the number of referrals decreases, it's because people get discouraged: they don't have a judge in hand and don't want to go to Reunion. Why keep Article 884 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in force in Mayotte, when the Constitutional Council declared it not in conformity with the Constitution for the rest of the national territory? Simply because you do not want to commit additional means and appoint magistrates to Mayotte in the service of the rule of law. But, Madam Keeper of the Seals, we need a rule of law in Mayotte.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u54	The next speaker is Ms. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u55	I will reply all the more briefly because I do not wish to contradict you, honourable Member. I simply want to make it clear that the creation of an annex office for both bailiffs and notaries performs exactly the same functions as the creation of an office. The answer therefore seems quite appropriate here. Moreover, if, in fact, the Chamber of Investigation is still in Reunion, for the Court of Appeal, video conferencing is a means that can always be used to respond to the concern that you have just exposed. Finally, I will go to Mayotte myself, where I will have the pleasure of engaging in dialogue with you and considering in practice how we can deal with all these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u56	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor to put his question, No. 941, on pensions for private education.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u57	I am elected to the department of Aveyron, which the keeper of the seals knows well and where you have recently visited, Mr. Secretary of State to the Minister of National Education and Youth, in the company of your appropriate minister. In this and other departments, however, we remain very committed to the plurality of family choices regarding the education of their children, which depends on the presence, alongside public institutions, of many private institutions under contract. So one of our former colleagues, Yves Censi, had a bill passed, the purpose of which was to bring the salaries and pensions of teachers in private education under contract together with those of teachers in the public sector. The Censi Act of 2005 provided for a gradual convergence for teachers who had worked between 15 and 17 years as contract teachers in private educational institutions under contract. Fifteen years after the adoption of this law, can you draw up, Mr. Secretary of State, the state of this convergence? Indeed, the equality between private teachers and public teachers still seems to me not to be achieved. In addition, the special commission had begun consideration of the draft law establishing a universal pension system. Measures to raise wages and extend the premium base for public teachers are announced, precisely because teachers are among the categories that would be most affected by your pension reform if strictly applied to them. The question of aligning the pension scheme for teachers in the private sector is therefore even more acute. What provisions do you intend to adopt in favour of teachers in the private sector so that the convergence provided for in the 2005 Act is finally effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u58	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u59	I apologize for the absence of Jean-Michel Blanquer, who instructed me to read you the answer he would have given you. At present, the amount of retirement for public service teachers is determined by taking into account the last six months of the year, on the basis of 75 per cent of the remuneration received, excluding ancillary remuneration. On the other hand, for teachers of private education, the calculation takes into account, as for employees of private enterprises, the best 25 years and takes into account the full elements of remuneration received. In addition, the contribution rate for basic and supplementary pensions is higher for private teachers. Pension reforms initiated since 2003 have significantly reduced contribution differences. This convergence of schemes was further strengthened with the creation in 2005 of an additional scheme for private teachers, in the spirit of the one open to civil servants. The objective of equal pensions for teachers in the public and private sectors will be achieved within the framework of the future universal pension system, which guarantees equal rights for all. In this regard, the Government's commitments are perfectly clear: the explanatory statement of article 1 of the draft law establishing a universal pension system states, with reference to the article of the Education Code which enshrines the principle of parity, that private teachers under contract will be fully covered by the guarantees of revalorisation offered to other teachers. They will of course be included in the universal system, which will abolish the differences that exist today between the two categories of teachers. With regard to the preservation of conditions of service and rights acquired under existing regimes, the bill is also very clear. The provisions of article 38 provide that the rules for the transition from retirement to the universal system of civil servants in the active category shall be settled by order. The temporary pension scheme for private education, RETREP, will be part of this reform, which will also concern teachers of the public. In line with a universal system, article 61 of the draft law provides that the additional regime created in 2005 will no longer accommodate new beneficiaries from 2025, and that it will be financially integrated into the future universal regime to ensure the coverage of acquired and remaining rights under article 57. As you know, Jean-Michel Blanquer has embarked on a wide-ranging round of consultations with teachers to discuss with them developments in the exercise of their profession, their remuneration and their pension. This cycle will also involve the private teachers of which we know and welcome the commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u60	Mr Arnaud Viala has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u61	Thank you, Secretary of State, for this detailed answer. Can you tell me, taking into account the information provided to you by the Minister of Education, when the convergence of pension systems between private and public sector teachers will be effective?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u62	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u63	Jean-Michel Blanquer, by my voice, undertakes to answer this precise question as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u65	Mrs Isabelle Rauch spoke of her question, No. 936, concerning the opening of a health and safety department within the IUT in Thionville-Yutz.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u66	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has decided to approve the opening of a health and safety department within the University Institute of Technology – IUT – in Thionville-Yutz. Beyond the university community, it is a whole territory that thanks it: businesses – medium-sized or large – public services such as the departmental fire and rescue service – SDIS – or a service to the public such as the occupational medicine network. Thanks to this creation, in this cross-border territory, it is not only the needs of the Moselle but also the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg that can be met. Open to registrations on the Parcoursup since last week, presented at the IUT Open Days this Saturday, this training is already of interest, precisely because it meets real needs and seems promising in terms of occupational integration. My question relates to the means that can be allocated to this new university offer. The IUT Directors' Assembly recommends the creation of four teaching posts, one technician and one administrative post for any department opening. The College of Technology of the University of Lorraine issued a similar request, in particular on the grounds that the IUT of Thionville-Yutz has a relatively low rate of coverage by the statutory teacher service, of the order of 55%. What resources will be allocated for the September start-up, knowing that the 2020 recruitment campaign is over? Is there any possibility of a arrow allocation from the beginning of this year? A gradual allocation of resources over two years could enable the sector to structure and develop. The Portes de France-Thionville community could cover the cost of the two technician and administrative positions. I would therefore like to know how high and when the State's resources could be committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u67	The Secretary of State to the Minister for National Education and Youth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u68	I apologize for the absence of my colleague Frédérique Vidal, who entrusted me with the task of answering your question. The project to create a health and safety department within the IUT of Thionville-Yutz, a component of the University of Lorraine, is a project that is of particular interest to you, the Member of Parliament, as well as to all the local elected representatives in your territory. It is a project which has been built for many years and which has been refused too many, the last four cases having received an unfavorable opinion from the competent bodies for the opening of training within the IUTs. However, your project is part of a very relevant territorial approach to deepening a training course in higher education around the industrial issues that characterize the north of the Moselle. As well as the local elected representatives and the teams of the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation – whom you have met on numerous occasions – you have clearly identified the frailties of the initial project, particularly with regard to the involvement of industrial players and the supervision of students. Thanks to the remarkable commitment of the elected representatives, it should be noted, but also of the local authorities and the industrialists, you have been able to benefit from specific support from the departments of the Directorate-General for Higher Education and Vocational Integration, the DGESIP, and the University of Lorraine in order to find the levers to remedy these initial shortcomings. I am therefore pleased to confirm that the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation decided last November to give a favourable opinion on the opening of a health and safety department within the IUT of Thionville-Yutz. This new department will open as soon as next year and will help strengthen the offer of higher education in your territory. It will make it easier for your companies to recruit staff trained at the best level within your territorial basin. Everyone measures the extent to which higher education training is at the heart of the social, economic and industrial dynamics of the territories. By supporting your approach, the Ministry has wished to acknowledge the commitment of the elected representatives and your firm will to build a coherent ecosystem between the offer of training and the territorial economic needs, ecosystem able to guarantee a dynamic professional integration for your students and the influence of your territory in France but also in Luxembourg and Germany. Your commitment and that of the local elected representatives on this issue has proved unwavering – it is now rewarded, therefore, by this important decision for your territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u69	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u70	Thank you, Secretary of State, for these encouraging words. It is indeed a whole territory that has mobilized for the opening of such a department. I am confident that the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation will continue to support us in this beautiful project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u71	The floor is open to Mr. Patrick Loiseau, to put his question, No. 945, concerning the competence of GEMAPI in the coastal territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u72	In a few weeks, the sad anniversary of storm Xynthia will take place: in February 2010, it hit France, especially my Vendée department. The combination of the great tides and a strong storm had led to the sea submergence of several coastal communes. The human balance, very heavy, was forty-seven deaths in France, of which twenty-nine were in the municipality of La Malfait-sur-Mer alone, in my constituency. The latest IPCC report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, on the state of the oceans, makes this clear: such disasters have to be repeated and intensified. The level of the oceans will increase by almost one metre in each location if current trends continue. This alarming finding obliges the public authorities to adapt and react, sometimes in an emergency, in order to ensure the protection of populations, particularly coastal areas. This situation has led to an awareness of the urbanisation of the coastline, which is too limited. It also highlighted the need for better maintenance of dykes and warning systems, which are often very obsolete. Since the passage of Xynthia, a major plan for the renovation of the dykes has been launched and the works have been strengthened. The mobilization of local actors, whose work and commitment I welcome, is, however, hampered by considerable administrative complexity and lengthy decision-making processes. Such a context appears inadequate for the urgency of the situation and the need for pragmatic, rapid and effective procedures. I was able to see it on the spot myself. At the same time, a new competence called GEMAPI – management of aquatic environments and flood prevention – is now assigned to intercommunities, and allows the implementation and management of concrete actions. Mr Minister responsible for the city and housing, what adjustments should be made to ensure that the competence of GEMAPI allows it to adapt fully to the evolution of the coastal territories and, above all, to the natural hazards that may arise? How can we ensure the proper coordination of actions on the same territory and the effective deployment of work to strengthen coastal areas? Should we not create new ad hoc mechanisms adapted to the climate emergency, with a view to better protecting our populations?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u73	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u74	Mr President, thank you for your question on a very important subject. On February 27, it will be ten years since the disaster caused by storm Xynthia, which swept a wide strip of the Atlantic facade. You are asking us about the competence of GEMAPI, which is intended to ensure mutualisation and solidarity between the municipalities concerned by these dangers. I would be grateful if you would excuse the absence of Mrs Jacqueline Gourault, Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, who follows this subject closely, as you know. She wishes several elements to be brought to your attention. Since 1 January 2018, GEMAPI competence has been a compulsory competence of EPCI – public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation – with its own taxation. The normative framework already includes many adjustments and flexibilities to enable pragmatic implementation. Most recently, the Act of 27 December 2019 on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, defended by Mr Sébastien Lecornu, Minister responsible for local authorities, has reinforced this direction. A number of examples can be cited for details of these adjustments. First of all, this competence can be transferred to a trade union, or to several trade unions each located on separate parts of the territory of the EPCI, in a spirit of modularity of jurisdiction. It is also possible to delegate jurisdiction to EPAGE – public water development and management institutions – and to the EPTB – public water basin institutions – in the same form. The Engage and Proximity Act allows this until 31 December for the benefit of any joint union or union of communes. The law also allows regions and voluntary departments to continue as long as they wish to participate in the implementation and financing of the GEMAPI competence. The departments can also intervene in technical assistance on the GEMAPI, for the purposes of territorial solidarity for the EPCI, which have up to 40,000 inhabitants. State support is also planned with the basin support missions. In addition, the State can manage the dams it managed before 2018 until 2024 on behalf of the EPCI. Finally, funding possibilities are foreseen: the GEMAPI tax, capped at 40 euros per capita, has seen a significant rise in power since 2017; the "aqua loans" scheme was announced by the Prime Minister during the first water sittings. Care must be taken that the stacking of ad hoc devices is not a solution. Under your control, honourable Member, I think I can say that local elected representatives want to rely first on a stable and sustainable legal framework to implement the GEMAPI competence in a calm manner. The Government intends to continue to facilitate this implementation: it will soon present new lines of simplification for both the training and implementation phases, in order to speed up and facilitate, for example, work on hydraulic works.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u75	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u76	Your last remarks, Minister, are very interesting and I thank him for an approach that will certainly be useful to local elected officials. Of course, I am in touch with the various structures of La Malfait-sur-Mer, which are obviously very invested in the reconstruction of the dikes. Their major criticism concerns the multiplication of the administrations to which they must address themselves and the complexity of the system. It would be desirable for decisions to be made more in the territories than in departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u77	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor to put his question, No. 951, on the pocket money scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u78	Minister responsible for the city and housing, I would like to question the Government on a device that we commonly call in Brittany, especially in Ille-et-Vilaine, "pocket money" – its official name is now "building sites and internships of an educational nature". Historically, this mechanism has been initiated as part of the city's policy. In some regions, such as the Ille-et-Vilaine department in Brittany, the mayors have taken action to propose missions of general interest to young people between the ages of 16 and 18. These are often school maintenance missions, urban furniture or green spaces that last two or three hours and are paid in the form of pocket money, "practices", as they say, up to 15 euros the mission. Today this scheme costs the state nothing and very little to the public community – the municipalities pay the 15 euros in question. On the other hand, this mechanism is very important to involve young people in the life of the city; It also creates a social link, since the latter are often supervised by the administrative or technical services of the communes. It makes it possible to educate young people about the public, to change their gaze, to strengthen their civic sense and to fight against incivilities. Young people who are called to participate in the maintenance of the common space never look at it in the same way again. However, the CGET – Office of the Commissioner-General for Equality of Territories – wishes to amend the implementing circular; These 15 euro gratuities should now be reported to the USSRAF – social security contribution collection unions – and perhaps even to income tax. This would increase the financial burden on the municipalities. Mr Minister, regardless of the fact that you are wearing a policy called Action Cœur de Ville, and that you want educational projects and internships to be concentrated in the cities concerned, can any municipality wishing to provide young people with the "pocket money" scheme continue to do so thanks to the legal and regulatory framework in force today?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u79	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u80	Mr President, thank you for this excellent question. You tell us the importance of the "pocket money" device, otherwise called "city life holidays", which is not sufficiently highlighted. I am making your comments on this device, on its interest in young people and on the new symbol it constitutes of what the Republic can bring to our youth. On the one hand, you are wondering whether this scheme allows young people to receive gratuities in the fiscal sense of the term, which would have an effect on possible wage contributions. You also want to know whether the spirit of this scheme makes it dedicated only to children in the priority areas of the city, or whether it can be extended to other territories. The regulatory framework for educational projects is defined both by the Ministry of Labour, as regards the status of young people, and by the Directorate of Social Security, as regards the measures for the exemption of charges associated with them. Remunerations paid to supervising staff, project promoters and facilitators shall be subject to social security contributions and contributions under the conditions laid down in the regulations in force at the common rate of the general scheme or, where appropriate, in accordance with special provisions. Those received by young people under 25 years of age in unpaid vocational training or solely by the State or by the region are subject to the social scheme applicable to such persons, i.e. an exemption from CSG-CRDS and, since 1 January 2013, subject to social security contributions on the basis of a flat-rate basis. By circular letter of 6 July 2015, ACOSS, the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies, specified that the social scheme specific to the remuneration paid to the beneficiaries of the "city life vacation" programme was sustainable. This means that the amounts paid to young people between 14 and 26 years of age for their activity under this programme would be equivalent to bonuses paid to in-company trainees and would therefore be excluded from the social contributions and contributions base within the same limits. With regard to your second question, concerning the geographical area concerned, there is a misgiving: contrary to what the written text of your question, published in the Official Journal of 28 January last, the CGET has not issued a circular limiting the geographical scope of application of the scheme. Initially, it was dedicated to young people in the priority neighbourhoods of the city's politics; It was his primary purpose. However, it is possible that a prefecture, after an agreement derogating from the competent USSRAF, wishes to extend this arrangement to other territories. This was the case in the Prefecture of Ille-et-Vilaine in 2019, which I support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u81	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u82	After the minister's answer, I would say that things are less bad – which is not surprising to me, since he is doing everything possible to make the lives of our fellow citizens easier, including those of the elected ones! I understand, on the one hand, that for young people between the ages of 14 and 26, we are dealing with a gratuity, so pocket money that is not subject to contributions. On the other hand, a department wishing to extend the scheme must be closer to the USSRAF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u83	That's exactly it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u84	The prefect of the Brittany region, Mrs Michèle Kirry, will know very well how to do so. It is therefore possible to reassure both mayors and young people who benefit from these arrangements during holidays. That's great! Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u85	The floor is open to Mr Fabien Gouttefarde to put his question, No 933, on the very high-speed Internet plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u86	Minister, you know better than anyone how the access of all our citizens to the very high-speed network is a major economic and social issue for the territories. We are collectively committed to delivering very high-speed Internet access to 100% of our citizens by 2025. This requires an out-of-standard investment, which, moreover, forces the admiration of our European neighbours. In sparsely populated areas, the least accessible and therefore the most expensive, it is the local authorities that build the fibre optic network. With the financial support of the state, they deploy the networks of public initiative that will enable us to achieve our ambitious goal. A new specification, more adapted to current economic conditions, to be used as a basis for the calculation of State subsidies in the context of the deployment of fibre optics in sparsely populated areas, has been put online for consultation. Its publication comes as Internet service providers show a growing interest in public initiative networks. However, local and regional authorities see this as a form of State disengagement from certain funding items such as collection, connection of priority sites or final connection, while funding ceilings do not change, particularly in areas where deployment would be more expensive than originally planned. In our territories, we feel a certain impatience on the part of the inhabitants, some of whom do not have access to the Internet or to the mobile phone, while the dematerialization of the State services takes place in great strides. In the field, deployment sometimes lags behind, for reasons as varied as the unavailability of fibre optic cables or the lack of qualified technicians and projectors to deploy and draw infrastructure. I feel today that there is a new financial justification. So, Minister, can you assure us that the commitment we have made to the French – connecting them all to the very high-speed Internet by 2025 – will be well maintained and that the State is implementing all the means necessary to support local and regional authorities in this process?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u87	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u88	Mr Gouttefarde, I would like to thank you for your question and to welcome your action, in your constituency and elsewhere, in favour of the development of very high speed in our country. It's a fight we've been sharing for two and a half years; You know my efforts in this area. The answer to your question is clearly: yes. The objective is very ambitious: to offer very high speed to all our citizens before the end of 2022. By 2025, fibre should be available to everyone; Indeed, very high speed does not only go through fiber. Two years ago, when the presidential majority took this subject with arms-on-body, about 2 million households per year became fibre-connectable. Two years later, this figure was doubled – more than 4 million households in 2019, or 14,000 per working day. When I set that target two and a half years ago, everyone called it unattainable; It must be noted that the deployment has never been as rapid as it is today. I welcome the work of the State services, but also of the communities – which finance a large part of these facilities alongside us – and of the operators who work on the territory with their teams. To meet our commitments, we must first facilitate the deployment of fibre: this is what we did with the "N" of the ELAN law – law on housing development and digital technology – in which you were very involved. It contains important provisions facilitating the deployment of digital technology, which explain the doubling of the rate of connection of the homes I mentioned. There is also a need to secure funding and to give local and regional authorities visibility in this area. A few weeks ago, with the Prime Minister and Mrs.Agnès Pannier-Runacher, we announced the reopening of the very high-speed France window, much expected by the communities. The window will already benefit from EUR 280 million, which will be used to accompany the latter; This amount is included in the famous specifications that we have just published, which concern all the territories we wish to accompany. So we have a very clear vision and a very strong ambition; We are fully committed to facilitating the deployment of fibre and securing financing. Access to very high speed also depends on the action we take to deploy the mobile network, since 4G allows you to have the Internet on your smartphone. This is the purpose of the New Deal that I concluded with the operators in January 2018, which – think, Member of Parliament! – has since allowed more than 5000 municipalities to move from old to new technologies. By the end of 2020, they will be 10,000 to 4G; That's significant. Our fellow citizens are aware of this progress: today they speak much more about usage than about infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u89	Mr Fabien Gouttefarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u90	Minister, thank you for providing these elements of response and for highlighting the efforts of the state and communities to significantly increase the number of connecting homes. It would be useful to know the gap between the connected fireplaces and the connected fireplaces, since it is the individuals who must take the initiative to carry out the procedure; It should be verified that they do not suffer from a lack of information. Finally, I would like to point out that the large historical operators – Orange, SFR, Bouygues – are too often absent from public networks; Our fellow citizens would like to see them return to the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u91	The next speaker is Mr Michel Zumkeller, to put his question, No 952, on unemployment compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u92	My question is addressed to the Minister of Labour and concerns some of the absurdities of our unemployment benefit system. I was asked by Christopher, a young man from my constituency, who worked 18 months in an acting capacity with a major regional donor. At the end of this period, unable to renew the contract of acting, rather than to remain idle, this young man made the choice to find another job, less well paid, thirty minutes from home. A few weeks later, he had a little concern for health and honesty with his employer and, in agreement with him, he resigned. Returning to Pôle emploi, he discovered that he had lost all his rights to compensation. A person who does not resolve to remain unemployed and who makes the effort to work is therefore without anything! I contacted Pôle Emploi, but I was told that this decision was not based on their own choices, but on the organisation of unemployment insurance and the relations between the various social partners. I would like to stress once again that our system is working on its head: if, after the eighteen months of acting, this young man had decided to stay at home, he would have been compensated; by making the choice to work, he was penalized. The subject is often discussed and discussed for a very long time, but I would like to know what the Government intends to do about it. It is important to value those who make the effort to return to a job, even if sometimes, for some reason, they end up at the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u93	The next speaker is the Minister for City and Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u94	Mr Zumkeller, thank you for your question, which allows me to clarify once again that in the framework of the presidential project, both during the campaign and since we have been in charge, work is the concept that we place at the centre of all our decisions. I believe a lot in the labour society. Work is a factor of emancipation, and it represents the main opportunity that the Republic must give to all its children to enable them to escape from precariousness and house arrest. Our system was indeed marked, here or there, by a few absurdities, and some areas asked to be disjointed; This government has been sufficiently criticized by the left side of the House to show that it has wanted and moved many lines. I am of course thinking of the reform of unemployment insurance, but also of the reforms of vocational training and the labour code. You go even further by taking the example of someone who is forced to leave their business because of the problems they have encountered. Faced with health problems, it is not intended to leave his job or to lose his status as an employee for that of a job seeker, but to be covered by sickness insurance. So you're referring to a specific case. In addition, there are two aspects to the transformation of unemployment insurance. First, it seeks to encourage the resumption of work, which is in line with your inquiry. In this area, we have acted forcefully, which has led to many criticisms. Others may think we haven't gone far enough. But in view of the attacks on either side, we may have found a middle ground! In any case, if for the first time in years the unemployment rate is so low, then the measures we have taken are in the right direction. This first block of measures must always be associated with a second, to which the Minister of Labour is deeply committed: that of accompaniment of projects, in particular through training. This government allocates EUR 15 billion to vocational training, through the regions, to support men and women in their return to work. Accompaniment also concerns learning – see the figures that the Minister of Labour announced this morning. These two blocks of measures address very difficult situations, such as the one you mentioned. One can only succeed by encouraging people to return to the labour market and by accompanying them in their efforts. These two components form the policy that the Minister of Labour has been pursuing for the past two and a half years, with considerable results. As part of the generation of all-unemployment, I am delighted to see that today the unemployment rate is finally falling below 9%.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u95	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u96	Mr Minister, I do not question your goodwill, but the case that I am quoting is not 15 years ago: the young man came to see me in September, when your measures were already being applied. You did not perceive the singularity of this case, which shows that today, a person who, after a period of activity, decides to stay at home is not encouraged to work again. In the field, things are not moving forward: this young man has made the choice not to be assisted, and how has he been rewarded? He received neither unemployment nor even RSA, because his previous salary was too high. Without doubting your goodwill, it must be noted that in this case your measures are not working – and the case described is far from unique. There is still a long way to go, and we can do it together, but do not think that the measures you have taken have solved so many problems; That's not true. In the field, people are still not encouraged to work; We're pushing them to be complacent in the assistanat. Our fellow citizens, and especially those who work, no longer stand up to this situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u97	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to raise her question, No 950, concerning the security of the bridge between Andance and Andancette.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u98	My question concerns the security of the various bridges that connect the Ardèche and the Drôme, and more particularly the RD86 bridge between Andance and Andancette, in Ardèche. The suspension bridge of Andance, dating from 1827, is one of the oldest in France still open to traffic, and the age of this work, which has become unsuitable for today's reality, leads to increasing difficulties: in the midst of a very dense traffic where two light vehicles find it difficult to cross, especially during peak hours, many heavy goods vehicles continue, despite the ban, to use the bridge. The already intense concerns of the residents have recently been increased by the tragedy of Mirepoix-sur-Tarn, which highlighted the difficulty for the public authorities to enforce the existing legislation on bans on vehicles of more than 7.5 tons. In Andance, the municipality invested in a video protection system by installing a camera at the entrance to the bridge. However, in the absence of specific legislation, mayors cannot verbalise the offences identified by this means; They therefore ask you to extend the possibility of video-verbalisation to all road traffic offences in order to give them the means to ensure the safety of their fellow citizens. Allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to stress the very particular configuration of my department: the lack of space between the valley and the mountain in some territories obliges the inhabitants to make several trips and returns a day. As road transport has increased dramatically throughout the Rhône Valley – I had already given you the example of the 20,000 vehicles that cross my city of Tournon-sur-Rhône every day – it is absolutely necessary for the state and the communities to take up this issue. As the economic attractiveness of our territories requires greater fluidity of transport, it is essential that we work to reduce the congestion of our communes. My question therefore concerns both the security of the inhabitants of the north of the departments of Drôme and Ardèche, and their ability to be fully involved in the sustainable economic development of their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u99	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u100	The video-verbalisation procedure for road traffic offences, which has been in place since 2008, allows a sworn officer to observe, on a screen, a traffic code violation filmed by a video-protection camera on the public road. This system aims to combat effectively one of the major causes of road insecurity, particularly in urban areas, and to influence the behaviour of road users in a sustainable manner by encouraging them to comply strictly with the rules. Measures 3 and 6 of the Interdepartmental Committee on Road Safety of 2 October 2015 extended the number of offences that can be detected without interception at the roadside, via video-verbalization and approved radars. Since 13 December 2016, 11 categories of road traffic offences have been verbalised without interception by the driver, including non-compliance with signs requiring vehicle stoppage, non-compliance with maximum permitted speeds, non-compliance with safety distances between vehicles, use of lanes and carriageways reserved for certain categories of vehicles such as buses and taxis, failure to wear seat belts, use of handheld mobile phones, traffic, stopping and parking on emergency stopping bands, non-compliance with the rules of overtaking, non-compliance with bicycle locks, failure to wear helmets on a motorized two-wheeler. Since 2019, the offence of non-insurance is also verbal. The Government is working on several avenues to extend this list, in ways that remain to be determined, in order to take into account the problem that you raise. At this stage, the case of exceeding the weight allowed to move on a work does not meet the applicable regulatory conditions, as it requires access to the vehicle registration system. In any case, Madam Member, I can tell you that this subject is under consideration.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u101	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u102	Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answer: I am pleased to hear that you are working on this question. In areas such as those I have mentioned, where bridges are no longer suitable for heavy goods vehicles, people feel a strong sense of insecurity. As soon as you have agreed on a durable solution for everyone, please let us know because it is important to provide a quick response to the mayors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u103	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor to put his question, No. 940, concerning the situation at the Albertville police station.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u104	My question to the Minister of the Interior concerns the staffing of one of the police stations in my constituency, that of Albertville. A few years ago, we had some concerns about the sustainability of this structure. It now seems firmly anchored in the city, which I rejoice at while wishing to hear you confirm orally. The involvement and professionalism of the peacekeepers have produced very good results, whether in the fight against violence on the public road or in burglaries. The evolution of elucidation rates is on the rise thanks to the work of field officers. Thank them for that. However, public security custody must never be reduced, particularly with regard to crimes of violence against those who, unfortunately, are on the rise. In this regard, I would like to know the reasons why the Albertville police station has only thirty-five officers, whereas it should have a staff of thirty-nine. Finally, a few months ago, I had the opportunity to draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior to the absence of a police-population cohesion delegate in this police station, which would enable the necessary listening and networking work to be carried out in the neighbourhoods of the city. Will the police station Albertville be able to benefit from such a post soon?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u105	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u106	Under the leadership of the President of the Republic, the Government has made security one of the fundamental issues of the quinquennium. To reduce insecurity, law enforcement agencies are mobilized on the ground every day. In this regard, I thank you for commending the work of the Albertville police officers, whose commitment and results I would also like to highlight: last year, physical violence decreased by 22%, burglaries decreased by 27%, the number of vehicle thefts remained stable. Of course, I do not intend to minimize the real problems or the sense of insecurity that may exist, but the figures show the work done by the police. We must salute him, and I thank you for doing so. In any case, resources are needed and that is why we are increasing the number, year after year: by the end of the quinquennium, 10,000 police and military officers of the gendarmerie will have been recruited. The modes of action and the priority given to the field are equally important. This is the whole meaning of the day-to-day security police, the partnerships it implements with all the security and decompartment actors that it manages to operate between the various police services. Let me turn to the specific prism of your question, namely the staffing of the Albertville police station. As at 31 December, there were forty-six police officers in this riding, with a minimal deficit of three units in relation to the target strength, according to the data available to me and which I will verify because they do not match yours. We will, of course, pay attention to the situation of this police station. It goes without saying that, whenever necessary, the population of the city can receive the reinforcement of the departmental staff. Your department's public security staff – including the territorial intelligence staff that are part of it – increased from 304 to 326 officers between the end of 2016 and the end of 2019. As far as the police-population cohesion delegates are concerned, I share your view on the essential work they are doing. Your department already had one in Chambéry and, since last month, it has had one more in Aix-les-Bains. Unfortunately, Albertville Police District does not have a voluntary reservist at this stage to carry out such a mission. We will ensure that prospecting is re-launched to address it. Be sure, honourable Member, that we will continue to work to give law enforcement the means to ensure the safety and tranquillity of our citizens on a daily basis, both in Albertville and everywhere in France. I have noted your insistence on the recruitment of a police-population delegate whose usefulness I confirm to you, particularly in the co-construction of security between the internal security forces, our fellow citizens and the institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u107	Mr Vincent Rolland has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u108	Thank you, Secretary of State, for this answer: additional staff would put more agents on the ground, and the delegate would play an important role in the neighbourhoods eligible under the city's policy – I noted your commitment to relaunch communication for this recruitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u109	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to put her question, No 942, on the European Institute for the Humanities and Humanities in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u110	I wanted to draw the attention of the Minister of the Interior to the situation of the IESH in Paris. Declared in the form of an association in September 2010, this structure presents itself as "a private higher education institution specializing in the teaching of the Arabic language, Islamic sciences and in the learning of the Holy Qur'an", as well as as a "Institut français de l'imamat et de l'almôterie", benefiting from an academic recognition issued by the Rectorate of Créteil. In addition, some of its training courses are eligible for State support under the personal training account – CPF. The IESH in Paris is one of six institutions of a European network called the Union of European Institutes of Humanities, which would be close to the Muslim Brotherhood. The first of these was established in 1992. Among the former students of the IESH in Paris is a young woman sentenced in October 2019, in first instance – she appealed –, thirty years in prison for trying to blow up a car near Notre-Dame de Paris in September 2016. Among the teachers, within the Muslim theology department, we can find the Imam of the mosque of Gonesse, Mr Hassan el-Houari, arrested by the counter-terrorism sub-directorate of the Directorate General of Internal Security – DGSI – on the night of 13-14 October 2019, following the terrible terrorist attack committed in the police prefecture of Paris by a computer technician who frequented this mosque and who heard the sermons of this imam. In addition, the press regularly echoes the actions of people linked to both the IESH and the Muslim Brotherhood networks and who contribute to the financing of this association by foreign funds – mainly from the Persian Gulf countries. Since 26 November 2019, 1' IESH has been subject to administrative closure by prefectural order following a fire risk control visit carried out by the brigade des sapeur-fireurs de Paris, the central laboratory of the police prefecture, the prefectural services and the city of Saint-Denis. On its website, this association indicates "actively looking for premises for rent" to "ensure continuity of teaching activities". Does the Government closely monitor the situation of this network of European education and seminars close to the Muslim Brotherhood and more specifically that of the establishment located in the commune of Saint-Denis? Can you give us more details on the financing of this project? What measures have been adopted by the Government to monitor the teaching content of the teachings given there, in order to ensure that they respect the values, principles and law of the French Republic? How does the Government intend to deal with the future developments actively desired by this institute, as part of an active policy to prevent Islamist radicalization in our territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u111	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u112	The Interministerial Mission of Vigilance and Combating Sectarian Deviations – Miviludes – was questioned twice about the IESH, whose mother house was established in 1990 near Château-Chinon, in Saint-Léger-de-Fougeret, Nièvre. Since 1990, several associations have been created, one in Caluire-et-Cuire near Lyon, and six in Île-de-France, Paris and Saint-Denis. The elements transmitted to the Miviludes did not reveal a sectarian drift. However, the education provided in this institution and the changes observed in some of the students by their relatives have prompted a call for the utmost vigilance, and I confirm that this is what we are demonstrating. The Prefect of Seine-Saint-Denis thus pays particular attention to the IESH of Saint-Denis. An unannounced visit under the regulation on establishments receiving from the public – ERP – was organised on Friday 11 October and resulted in an unfavorable opinion from the departmental sub-committee against the risks of fire and panic. The prefect therefore instructed the manager of the school to carry out compliance work to remove the anomalies found. As these were not lifted, the prefect of the Seine-Saint-Denis notified, by order of 26 November 2019, the closure of the institute. Supervision of non-contracted educational institutions is a priority, particularly in the case of institutions that have attracted the attention of the police services through their links with the radical Islamist movement. Since February 2018, this has been the case in the fifteen neighbourhoods – located in territories where jihad fighters have grown – where plans to combat radicalisation are being tested. The measures taken in these fifteen neighbourhoods have produced significant results; 152 beverage outlets were closed, as were 15 places of worship, 12 cultural and non-profit institutions and 4 out-of-contract schools. The departmental anti-fraud operational committees – CODAF – carried out several hundred checks which resulted in adjustments by the Family Allowance Fund – up to EUR 4 million – and by the USSRAF – of EUR 15 million. On the basis of these results, we have therefore decided, at the request of the President of the Republic, to extend this strategy to the entire national territory. Last November, a circular was sent to all prefects asking them to undertake this type of control action whenever practices or statements suggest that God's law is considered to be superior to the law of the Republic. If words suggest a link with terrorism, we will apply the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism – SILT. In any event, Member, count on our determination to monitor this type of institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u113	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u114	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for the very precise and strong words you have just made. I note, however, that it was necessary to await the observation, by the departmental subcommittee on safety against the risks of fire and panic, of the failure of the IESH of Seine-Saint-Denis to comply with the safety rules of an establishment receiving from the public to have this establishment closed. I have heard, however, your repeated calls to vigilance. Be assured that many of us in the National Assembly want to accompany you in the fight against Islamist radicalization. We will not fail to appeal regularly to the Government to ensure that the situation evolves in the direction of full respect for the values, principles and laws of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u115	Mr Philippe Latomb, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 947, concerning the security of national files.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u116	The secure electronic title system, more commonly known as TES, contains the identity, sex, colour of the eyes, size, address of the home, filiation data, digital image of the face and signature, e-mail address and fingerprints of all holders of a national identity card or a French passport. Other data are also recorded, such as information relating to the title itself, as well as data relating to its manufacturer and the agents responsible for its issue. Personal data, as well as other recorded information, are kept for 15 years in the case of a passport, for 20 years in the case of a national identity card, and for 10 and 15 years in the case of a minor respectively. The choice of centralization of such a file exposes a massive and valuable set of personal data to the reach of hostile powers or experienced criminals. The audit report of DINSIC – the Interministerial Directorate for Digital and the State Information and Communication System – and of ANSSI – the National Agency for Information Systems Security –, issued on 13 January 2017, underlined the perfectability of the system, which can be technically diverted for identification purposes, by reconstitution of a complete database based on the existing unidirectional link. In the face of this danger, so-called strategic private companies are forced to have backup servers. Mr Secretary of State, what steps are being taken to secure the large non-defence strategic national files, such as TES, in the event of a failure or intrusion of the system? Are there backup servers for each system that are located in locations separate from those of their operation? Can you guarantee us that there is no ongoing project or risk that the cloud will be used as a backup system, which would pose a major threat to the protection of our citizens' personal data?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u117	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u118	In an audit report submitted in January 2017, ANSSI concluded that the TES system, used for both passport and identity card issuance, was compatible with the sensitivity of the data it contains. It made eleven recommendations in order to improve the protection of this system against the risks of intrusion and, in particular, to strengthen the robustness of the unidirectional link to link identities with biometric identifiers. On the basis of the ANSSI report, a decision to approve the TES system for the security of information systems was taken on 8 February 2017 for five months. In view of the work carried out in recent years, in particular to strengthen the encryption of data and the unidirectional link between identity data and biometric data, the certification of the TES system was renewed on 7 July 2017, 6 July 2018 and 6 July 2019 for a period of one year. In an approach of continuous improvement, the security of the TES system is strictly monitored by a dedicated committee. Currently, the work of this committee focuses on the resilience of the system. It was also decided, given the sensitivity of the data in question, that the registration of the file with regard to safety standards should be renewed more frequently. In this context, the Directorate of Public Liberties and Legal Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior, the ANSSI and the Digital Directorate of the Ministry of the Interior have initiated the drafting of a plan for continuity and resumption of activities. The TES platform is hosted on a highly secure site, to which only duly authorised persons can access. The data is subject to very frequent backups, on two separate local servers, also hosted on a highly secure site, with limited access.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u119	The next speaker is Mr Louis Aliot, to put his question, No 953, on combating crime and delinquency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u120	It's a security Grenelle that France would need. The figures of crime and delinquency are more than worrying, so much so that the French have internalized this violence of everyday life, which affects up to their displacement and their way of life. Its impact is visible in all spheres of existence; It has the same high economic cost. Insecurity, which reaches its peaks, serves the image of France abroad. When he left his ministry, the previous minister of the interior, Gérard Collomb, made this lucid and sad observation, which I share today: "Today we live side by side. I'm afraid tomorrow we'll live face to face. » It is for this reason that, since my election to the National Assembly, I have constantly alerted the authorities to the immense security problems that Perpignan faces. I was thus surprised that the city was not selected as part of the daily security system set up by the Ministry of the Interior; I was also surprised that two police stations in Perpignan, those in Moulin-à-Vent and the Vernet, were closed. And I was mocked by various elected officials when I dared to say that our city was becoming a "small Marseilles", some neighbourhoods being gangregnated by drug trafficking and the culture of delinquency. Recently, a new shooting broke out in the Lower Vernet near the Victor Duruy school. Even yesterday, in this neighbourhood, the students were confined to their school after shots were fired. Yesterday, too, in the heart of the historic district of Saint-Jacques, individuals clashed in the morning against each other against the backdrop of rivalries around drug trafficking, putting the inhabitants in great danger – the latter today feel completely abandoned. When you add increasing insecurity to economic difficulties, the lives of the French become unbearable. I am therefore pleased that after several inquiries, the ministry finally installs a branch of the BIS – research and intervention brigade – in Perpignan. Unfortunately, I can only be saddened by the fact that these good initiatives are only taken during election periods: security deserves better than adjustments on a case-by-case basis and political blows; It deserves colossal means and the launch of a genuine reflection within all our institutions. This scourge must be overcome. The fight against drug trafficking should be declared a major national cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u121	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u122	Mr. Deputy, security is a priority of the Government. It has been translated into concrete measures since 2017 as the law enforcement budget has increased by more than 1 billion euros. By the end of the quinquennium, an additional 10,000 police officers and gendarmes will have been recruited. We have also deployed the daily security police everywhere – everywhere, Mr Aliot! – in the national territory, to put back staff on the ground and provide an appropriate response to each local situation. The daily security police – not to be confused with the system of republican reconquest districts – is therefore implemented in Perpignan as elsewhere. It enables a strong partnership between law enforcement and all security actors to develop an increased presence on the ground and concrete security actions. This policy has its effect through the mobilization of our law enforcement agencies, including at the national level. You mentioned several indicators of delinquency, but there are others: although the trend is stabilized in 2019, violent theft without a weapon has fallen by more than 9% since 2017; Thefts with weapons have fallen by almost 10%; vehicle theft and deliberate destruction and degradation have also decreased; The number of burglaries has remained stable this year, but has declined by more than 6% over the past three years. However, there are still worrying phenomena, such as the increase in homicides, the increase in voluntary assaults, which occur half in the domestic context – thanks to the mechanism we have put in place that more complaints are being made, which is to be welcomed – and the rise in scams, which is a real concern. The results are therefore very real, even if they are not entirely satisfactory. In any case, the picture is not as black as you portray it. Moreover, the Grenelle de la sécurité which you call of your wishes, is the White Paper on Internal Security which we are working on! It will help to establish the state of the threat, to develop a better police organization, to strengthen our capacity and, in total, to act more effectively in the area of security. It is true that we will have to concentrate our efforts, in particular, on combating violence. In Perpignan, gruesome physical violence increased by more than 3% last year; The overall increase in physical violence was 16 per cent. I also know, Mr. Aliot, that your department and your city are marked by drug trafficking and the settlement of accounts between rival gangs. I recall, however, that a national plan to combat drugs was launched last June. The fight against drug trafficking is therefore well regarded as a major national cause. The national anti-narcotics plan in the Eastern Pyrenees has resulted in the establishment of an operational narcotics intelligence unit, which aims to force the various internal security forces to exchange and pool information on drug trafficking. The services together determine the objectives of dismantling the networks. Only in this way will it be possible to eradicate them permanently and to put an end to the violence they generate. However, some indicators for Perpignan are encouraging. Thus, flights remained stable in 2019; armed robbery and burglary decreased by 13%; vehicle theft decreased by 9%. The mobilization must, however, be maintained at the Perpignan police station and judicial police station, which has special investigative techniques. Be assured, sir, of the total mobilization of the national police. I would add that the means of the Montpellier Regional Judicial Police Service and the Marseille Interregional Judicial Police Directorate also intervene, on an ad hoc basis, in support of Perpignan. As you pointed out, a detachment from the Montpellier research and intervention brigade will be created in Perpignan during the year, as part of our reflection on the evolution of the organization of the law enforcement forces – thinking completely disconnected from the campaign for the municipalities, be reassured on this point, Mr.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u123	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to put his question, No. 923, on police violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u124	Two dead, 315 wounded in the head, 24 snorted and 5 hands torn: this is the record of what some call "a respectful and republican dialogue"! The "daily bumblebee quota" is exploding: journalists, demonstrators, trade unionists, students and pensioners have been injured during recent demonstrations. Even firefighters were hit – we all saw it in the pictures broadcast on television. The repression of opponents of your policy is increasingly virulent and disproportionate. I think, for example, of Irene, the RATP trade unionist who lives in Montreuil and I know well: she had her skull opened after she had been hit by a baton because she had simply wanted to pick up her phone that had fallen to the ground – the images of this scene have moved a lot. Each new demonstration brings with it a lot of shocking images: free crocs-en-jambe, LBD shots – defensive bullet throwers – at close range, beatings to demonstrators already on the ground. Even if those who have to enforce the law go beyond it, the climate cannot calm down! I asked last year for a ban on LBDs and explosive grenades, as did the Defender of Rights, Jacques Toubon, but you insisted on maintaining their use, even if you put the physical integrity of our fellow citizens at risk. We have just learned that GLI-F4 grenades will no longer be used because of the depletion of the stock, but other dangerous equipment will replace them... In order for law and order to be carried out in a peaceful manner, the instructions given to the security forces must be proportionate. It is dangerous to give orders to the police in order to provoke tensions with the demonstrators. The chain of command is the backbone that must allow for peaceful supervision, for which it is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior to ensure. To date, 212 investigations have been opened by the IGPN – the general inspection of the national police – on suspicions of violence by police officers, including on yellow vests: 54 have already been closed down and, to my knowledge, only one conviction was handed down, in December 2019, of an official of the CRS – republican security companies – for the jetting of a paving stone during the demonstration on 1 May 2019. Shots at demonstrators on the ground, shots at point-blanks, grenades at face height: unless I'm mistaken, none of this has been punished to date. The Minister of the Interior said: "The exchanges raise debate, violence undermines it. It is time to put an end to this violence by redefining methods of policing and effectively banning violent and dangerous orders. The President of the Republic called for "clear proposals to improve ethics" and for monitoring the work of law enforcement agencies. Mr Secretary of State, what are your proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u125	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u126	Allow me, Mr Corbière, first of all to recall the context in which the demonstrations that you have mentioned took place – we have already discussed them several times, particularly in the Chamber. As you know, these demonstrations have been overshadowed by numerous violence, unprecedented violence, although business breakdowns and takeovers by law enforcement forces have already been observed, under the previous quinquennium, during the movement to challenge the Labour Law, the modernization of social dialogue and the securing of professional paths, known as the El Khomri Law. Since then, violence has intensified, at the time of the first demonstrations of yellow vests, but also, a little before, on May 1, 2018. This unacceptable violence must therefore be addressed, which cannot be a matter of freedom to demonstrate. You know that the police and the gendarmes are doing a remarkable job, which I want to salute. They organize daily demonstrations throughout the country, including, of course, demonstrations organized by opponents of the Government. It is not a question of repression, but a framework to ensure the security of demonstrations. When they follow a declared route, the law enforcement agencies are in contact with an official, and things are going well. But what we've been through over the past year is totally different: systematic violence, civil servants involved, attempts to undermine institutions, the deterioration of businesses, all in the course of demonstrations that were almost never declared – things go better when they were. It has not escaped you, Member, that some of these demonstrations have been infiltrated by individuals of the ultra-mobility, whose sole purpose is to commit violence. It was therefore necessary to adapt the law enforcement system and allow for more reactive action by law enforcement forces to disperse and, if possible, challenge troublemakers. It is in this context that the action of the police and the gendarmerie took place. I would like to remind you that 53,000 demonstrations took place last year. That's a very important figure. And it is in this context that the police and gendarmes have fully committed themselves. You mention a number of mistakes. They are not contested: yes, there have been errors committed by some, but in extremely limited numbers, which systematically lead to the initiation of investigations, in particular by the General Inspectorate of the National Police or by the General Inspectorate of the National Gendarmerie. These are investigations supervised by magistrates. You mentioned a conviction, but there are already two. In view of the numerous judicial information available, it is not correct to say that these errors remain unpunished. And I repeat that those who commit them are very minority. I salute the remarkable courage of the internal security forces, who, in the face of unprecedented violence, have been able to maintain the republican order but also – remember this – those who wanted to demonstrate peacefully and peacefully. It is the role, pride and honour of the National Police and the National Gendarmerie that has allowed the exercise of this free expression against those who wanted to include violence. Denunciation of alleged police violence should not, in reality, be a way of concealing the ultra-violence shown by some demonstrators, and which is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u127	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u128	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer, but you are wrong to fully justify all the acts committed by police officers. We support the forces of law and order, it is necessary, but I believe that deep down, you can only acknowledge that during these demonstrations intolerable things happened, on a scale that is now extremely important. So this is not just a proportionate response to the acts committed by the infiltrated people you are referring to and who are there only to degenerate the demonstrations. The police, like any public service, must be supported but also criticized when justified. In this regard, the small number of sanctions imposed following an investigation by the IGPN demonstrates a lack of speed to act. However, justice is much faster to punish demonstrators, and in sometimes shocking conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u129	Mr Remi Delatte has the floor to put his question, No. 937, on the shortage of rural veterinarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u130	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture about the increasingly distended mesh of veterinary agricultural activities, while they are a guarantee of health and animal welfare, but also indirectly of human health safety. At the national level, out of 18500 veterinarians, only 4000 are involved in rural areas and, of the 400 students trained each year, only two thirds will be engaged in the profession, 80% of whom will only be engaged in the care of pets in urban areas. For example, in the second electoral district of Côte-d'Or, the last rural veterinarian will cease his activity on February 22, leaving a herd of 12,000 head of cattle without veterinarians less than 50 kilometres away. I would therefore like to know what measures the Government intends to take to ensure, on the one hand, a better attractiveness of rural veterinary training and, on the other hand, to facilitate the installation in rural areas. In the first case, it could be to open up training more widely to graduates of agricultural education or to specialise more in agricultural activity, or even to structure a specific training course which could be reduced to five or six years. As for the easier installation of the profession in rural areas, it could go through the establishment of young graduates at the end of their studies in a mesh that guarantees proximity and speed of intervention, or by adapting the conditions of exercise to the new expectations of professionals with regard to the collective exercise of the activity, the level of remuneration of acts or the delegation of certain acts. Finally, we can also take into account the possibilities offered by remote veterinary medicine and consider greater accountability of breeders, coupled of course with the involvement of veterinarians in their training.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u131	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u132	First of all, honourable Member, I would be grateful if you would excuse Minister Didier Guillaume, who cannot be with us this morning. The density of veterinarians in rural areas is a subject which the Government follows with particular vigilance, as you have pointed out, as it is decisive in the health safety system in relation to animal and public health; It is also part of one of the 200 actions on the rural agenda, led by the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities. In recent years, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, for its part, has set up 18-week tutoring courses for students in the fifth year of veterinary school, as part of a partnership between schools and veterinary offices. These internships are intended to direct students to animal production. To date, approximately 80 of them have benefited from funding from the Ministry of Agriculture, with 95 per cent opting for animal production at the end of their studies. In addition, Minister Didier Guillaume and Minister Frédérique Vidal announced, at the end of 2019, the creation of a new way of access to the national veterinary schools for students of the final class: 160 places will be available according to predefined registration procedures, on the basis of a school record and interviews. This additional method of post-bac recruitment is intended to diversify the recruitment of large schools by allowing students with good academic performance to access them without going through the preparatory class, a step that can be seen as an obstacle. The aim is to increase the number of veterinarians trained for rural practice. The reflections continue around other levers of action. On the one hand, the aim is to ensure the sustainability of the relationship between the farmer and the veterinarian in technical and financial terms, discussions are under way between the agricultural and veterinary professional organisations on the principle of a contract incorporating the obligation to care, the health monitoring of the herd and the sharing of health data. On the other hand, local initiatives have emerged, and they are working, such as the development of good practice charters. To enable local and regional authorities to put in place incentives to encourage and maintain the installation of veterinarians in rural areas is thus part of the second set of measures under these new levers of action. Lastly, teleconsultation should be allowed, particularly in remote areas. On this basis, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is studying the legislative and regulatory measures that should be taken to strengthen the practice of veterinary medicine in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u133	Mr Rémi Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u134	Thank you, Secretary of State, for the information you have just given me. It is clear that the internships you mentioned are a good way to encourage young people to move to rural areas. Another very interesting step, of course, is the change in post-bac recruitment, backed by incentives that can be put in place by the communities. But it is clear that there is still a demographic deficit of veterinarians, which I believe will require even stronger measures, such as the one I mentioned: the reduction of training to five or six years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u135	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to raise her question, No 954, on the risks of pesticides to human health and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u136	The Minister of Agriculture and Food is not here. But I still hope to get a real response from the Government. The Court of Auditors made public this morning its reference dated 27 November 2019, noting the total failure of the policy of the Ecophyto plans, i.e. the policy pursued by this government as the previous ones to regulate the use of pesticides. Despite 400 million injected into these plans, pesticide use is up 24% in 2019 alone. With regard to glyphosate, the Government has buried its own promise to ban it; with respect to SDHI fungicides – succinate dehydrogenase inhibitors – about which 450 scientists are asking for the application of the precautionary principle, he is deaf ears. And he renounces protecting the residents who are victims of spraying. Moreover, at the height of the summit, while the National Assembly voted, by article 83 of the Act of 30 October 2018, to ban the manufacture in France of certain pesticides, the state summit supports the pesticide lobby to question the application of this provision. Today we are in a public health emergency, and in a total emergency for biodiversity and the whole of life. My questions will therefore be extremely simple. Yes or no, will glyphosate be banned at the end of this year as the President of the Republic committed himself to it? Yes or no, is the Government, which has the power to do so, going to suspend the authorization to place the SDHI on the market? Yes or no, will the Government draw the consequences of the complete failure of the Ecophyto plans by applying, finally, article L. 253-7 of the Rural Code which allows the State to suspend immediately the use of any dangerous substance?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u137	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u138	Madam Member, I would like to apologise to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who I represent here to answer your questions on the crucial issue of reducing plant health products. I would like to reiterate that the Government's policy is clear: public health issues are non-negotiable; As soon as a product poses a risk to humans, it is removed from the market – we decided unilaterally, in 2018 and 2019, to ban metam-sodium, epoxiconazole, neonicotinoids and related substances as our European neighbours continue to use them; Our goal is to reduce the quantities of plant protection products by 50% by 2025 and to release glyphosate for a majority of uses by the end of 2020. Two principles guide our action: that of respect for science and that of transparency. As far as science is concerned, I would like to say in this Chamber that it is highly regrettable that parliamentarians are attacking ANSES, the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health, when its expertise and level of independence are no longer to be proved. If parliamentarians no longer trust science, no longer know how to distinguish between the notions of risk and danger, where are we going? As for transparency, the Government is committed to providing sales data for 2019 as early as spring 2020. As far as your specific questions are concerned, I should like to inform you that ANSES will shortly, at the request of the Government, give an opinion on the substances of greatest concern, and it will obviously be carefully studied. With regard to glyphosate, ministers Élisabeth Borne and Didier Guillaume are mobilized, alongside ANSES and INRAE – the National Institute for Research in Agriculture, Food and the Environment – to carry out a comparative, objective and robust assessment. The ANSES will explain on this basis, by the end of June, the uses for which glyphosate could be banned, ensuring that farmers are not stalemated, either technically or economically. In conclusion, I know that, for some, all means are good to ban all plant protection products – this is the case when mayors impose 150-metre non-treatment zones around homes, but also in the case of SDHI or glyphosate. It is not a question of going overnight to zero pesticide: should we remember that almost 25% of the total quantity of active substances is made up of so-called natural products, which can be used in organic farming? The President of the Republic said that our agriculture is an agricultural of excellence, which must certainly move, but also be defended high and strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u139	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u140	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Farmers are also victims of these products, which affect their health. Listening to your answer, we can say that unfortunately, the pesticide lobby has good days ahead of it! You will tell the Minister of Agriculture to revise his cards because, for example, as far as neonicotinoids are concerned, it was not this government that banned them, but Parliament, against an executive who did not want to do anything. The same applies to science: I would like to point out that the International Cancer Research Centre, under the authority of the World Health Organization, has classified glyphosate as a probable carcinogen, and that it is not for the French Government or the ANSES to sit on a decision of the IARC and the WHO. In any case, unfortunately, everyone will have understood the meaning of your answer: everything continues as before and public health remains secondary.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u141	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u142	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor to put her question, No. 928, on the precautionary principle and public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u143	Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the precautionary principle in the field of public health and the importance of better measuring the effect of exposure to multiple pollutants on the body. The commune of Saint-Rogatien, in Charente-maritime, which has 2187 inhabitants, and the surrounding communes have seen five cases of leukemia in children since 2014, including one leading to the death of a 15-year-old girl last December. At the time of the diagnosis, all lived less than 1500 metres from two factories – one of coated, the other of composting, for the community of agglomeration of La Rochelle – close to farms, a high-voltage line and a road infrastructure. The situation of these municipalities – like others in France – is worrying. The scientific community agrees that it is difficult to measure the cocktail effect on the health of pollutants such as pesticides or industrial and automotive air releases. In this case, the latest studies carried out by Atmo France, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research – INSERM – and the University Hospital – CHU – in Poitiers, struggle to establish a causal link between exposure to the various pollutions, and blood cancers affecting the families of these municipalities. Their conclusion, that of "excess risk among 0-24-year-olds", is difficult to support because of the small number of people involved. It is recognized, however, that institutions can take protective measures without having to wait for the reality and seriousness of risks to human health to be fully demonstrated. While the Constitutional Council has for the first time given priority to the protection of the environment – a new objective of constitutional value – and the protection of health over the freedom to undertake, I would like to know the Government's strategy: how can we better understand the cocktail effect of pollutants on the health of our citizens? Does the Government intend to apply the precautionary principle more widely?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u144	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u145	Every year, 2,500 children and adolescents are affected by cancer. These diseases give rise to a feeling of injustice or even revolt when it comes to children. The causes of pediatric cancers are very poorly known and probably multiple. The financial law for 2019 has allowed an increase of €5 million per year in appropriations for basic research on paediatric cancers and the law aimed at strengthening the management of paediatric cancers through research of 8 March 2019 has dedicated the leading role of the National Cancer Institute, responsible for proposing and implementing a ten-year strategy to combat cancers, especially paediatric cancers, and to develop research. Since 2014, five cases of childhood cancer have been reported in your constituency. Public Health France conducted a study and concluded, in April 2019, that there is no plausible link between the large number of paediatric cancers and exposure to releases from the road-clad plant. At this stage, there is no specific evidence to correlate the emergence of these pathologies with the local environment. However, as a precaution, and subject to new expertise, which could lead to a combination of adverse effects – a "brooming effect" – epidemiological monitoring and monitoring of chemical emissions to the environment are maintained. The Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing – DREAL – has been approached by the services of the Regional Health Agency – ARS – of the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. ARS is also contributing to the development of complementary investigation protocols, including a six-month air quality monitoring project with Atmo Nouvelle-Aquitaine, the regional air observatory, in order to gain a better understanding of exposures. Monitoring is extended to other potential nuisances, such as electromagnetic waves linked to the presence of high voltage lines in the municipality. Regular and productive exchanges take place with the Avenir Santé Environnement association, which brings together families and residents who want to know more. It was also received by the Director General of the ARS Nouvelle-Aquitaine. As you can see, Member, we remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u146	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, for these indications on this particular case. I would also like to hear your position at a more general, national level. An observatory, accessible via the Internet, which would record all the data and cross the data of sickness insurance and hospitals would be of great use. Indeed, we have a better interest in putting prevention first than curative.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u148	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to put his question, No. 924, on ANSES.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u149	The National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour is supposed to protect our health; It is it which allows the marketing of plant protection products that we find in fields and plates. Little known to the general public, it is ineffective and difficult to fulfil its protection tasks. Thus, ANSES has authorised the placing on the market of Monsanto Roundup Pro 360 when it has analysed only one of the components of this product – the unexamined coformulants are problematic – and it contains glyphosate, a substance classified as a probable carcinogen. In addition to issuing permits to poison, the agency's second mission is to verify ex post facto that the product it has authorized does not decimate biodiversity or threaten our health. However, for months, scientists have been alerting ANSES to the dangerousness of SDHI-type pesticides, which have been widely applied to crops for 10 years, and which are present in 60% of food. These fungicides block the cellular respiration of plants and animals and are thought to cause carcinogenic mechanisms. Based on studies produced by firms and a report rejected by scientists, ANSES refused to ban SDHI-type pesticides, in violation of the precautionary principle. Is it because one of the requested experts works for the development of such fungicides, and its long-standing links with agrochemical firms, including Syngenta, have created a conflict of interest? When ethics is sacrificed, the health scandal is assured. When we look at the functioning of ANSES, we discover conflicts of interest that serve multinationals. After the marketing authorization for Roundup Pro 360 was revoked by the court in 2019, Mr.Genet, the Director of the Agency, indicated that he would appeal this decision. Perhaps he doesn't want to complicate relations with his chief of staff, former propesticid lobbyist? The ANSES, which is surrounded by conflicts of interest, is nevertheless, I repeat, both responsible for issuing permits to poison and to monitor the effects of them a posteriori! When are you going to split ANSES into two independent entities? How are you going to put this agency in order and restore its independence, so that ANSES is no longer the National Agency for the Undervaluation of Health Scandals?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u150	The Secretary of State to the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u151	Mr President, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health pays the utmost attention to the issues and elements of debate concerning plant protection substances and their potential impact on human health. The INSERM, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research, seized at the beginning of 2018 by the ministries responsible for health, agriculture, research, ecology and work to carry out a new collective work of expertise on the effects on the health of pesticides, will make its findings in the first half of 2020. They will inform the current discussions, including on glyphosate and SDHI-type pesticides. You refer to the current debate on the treatment by ANSES of the report carried out in April 2018 by the scientific collective led by Pierre Rustin about SDHI-type fungicides. It should be recalled that ANSES has self-entered as early as May 2018 in order to take into account this report on the toxicity of HIDs. In January 2019, ANSES concluded that there was no evidence to support a health alert for human health and the environment. However, it has initiated measures to remove residual uncertainties: research on the toxic effects of these substances, in particular, is being strengthened, while knowledge of population exposure and monitoring of health effects is being improved. At the end of 2019, ANSES took over again. This new expertise will incorporate the latest data from the literature, including an article published on November 7, 2019 in the scientific journal PLOS One, referring to the toxicity of SDHI fungicides on cells grown in vitro, and the results of the upcoming collective expertise of INSERM. The first results of this work will be known as early as 2020. The Government will pay particular attention to the various findings of the reference bodies published in 2020, and to the follow-up to be given to them if a risk to the population is identified.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u152	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u153	You say the ANSES has "self-referencing". This is a somewhat biased presentation, since the Agency was only responding to the alert of INSERM scientists. With regard to the group of collective emergency expertise – GECU – set up by ANSES, it does not include any experts in cancerology or mitochondrial disease. Rather than a GECU, it would have been necessary to create, after a call for applications, a working group composed of independent experts free of any conflict of interest – unlike the current situation – and relevant knowledge to understand the particular effects of these pesticides, which affect cellular respiration. This working group should also have worked for a long time, one to two years, on all pesticides affecting mitochondria. Once again, the evaluation agency organises blindness on the most serious problems affecting public health – is it voluntary? Once again, the precautionary principle has not been applied; Previous speakers made the same observation on other subjects. This is of particular concern in the current context.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u154	Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel has the floor to put her question, No. 930, on emergencies at the Sisteron hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u155	My question will concern the emergencies of the Hospital of Sisteron, which welcome the population of this magnificent city of the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence and its surroundings. Since July, night emergencies have been closed, at the request of their head of department, in order to find a solution to the major difficulties faced by understaffed doctors. The situation that Sisteron is experiencing, as we know, is unfortunately not unique on French territory. Of course, emergencies are always provided by the UAS, and the attached short-term hospital service is preserved. Of course, the director of the hospital, Yann Le Bras, is actively seeking to recruit doctors – without resorting to scandalous mercenary doctors. Of course, the Director of the Regional Health Agency – ARS – of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region, Philippe De Mester, has just opened the possibility of recruiting non-emergency doctors and has provided the necessary funding. Above all, he confirmed his will to reopen the night emergencies. Of course, all the measures to increase the number of doctors available have been taken: liberal doctors are active and voluntary, the work of the SAMU-centres 15 n° 04 and 05 will be pooled in order to have two additional doctors. Of course, the causes of closure are not financial; Moreover, additional funding was granted a few days ago. The Bas-Alpins have two qualities: pignacity and honesty. They proved the first and showed, together with the local elected officials, their attachment to this public service by demonstrating thirty-two consecutive Mondays in front of the hospital. If this Monday ramdam can create fear for the population, and could deter doctors from coming to Sisteron, I understand these women and men: they want to save this night service. The loud noise they make is a call. Doctors will be welcome. I have organized several meetings with the actors concerned in order to find lasting solutions as soon as possible, in addition to the measures taken by the ARS and the management of the hospital. I contacted the deans of the Faculty of Marseilles to organize meetings with future doctors to introduce them to the department. Despite all these actions, this will, the energy spent, my many exchanges with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the number of doctors recruited does not allow a permanent reopening – because the problem arises over the long term. I said that a second quality of the Bas-Alpins was honesty. They are waiting for the same trait in others. They're scared; fear that the current situation will be a stalker, which will lead to the final closure of the emergency department. They want the Government to make a strong commitment and confirm that the recruitment of sufficient numbers of doctors to ensure the safety of the Bas-Alpins will lead to the reopening of the night emergency department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u156	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u157	The situation of the Sisteron settlement is part of a national context of scarcity of medical resources, including emergency workers. Today, the emergency department's reception is closed at night, causing some local excitement. However, the facility's mobile emergency and resuscitation service – SMUR – continues to operate, ensuring access to the most urgent care for the population. That's a good thing. Posts are shared between hospitals in the territory and a project to pool the work of the SAMU-Centres 15 n° 04 and 05 is also under way. In addition to these local measures, national measures have been announced as part of the emergency restructuring pact and the investment plan for the hospital. It is planned to develop territorial solidarity schemes between public health institutions and measures will be taken to strengthen the attractiveness of entry into the hospital career and to meet the expectations of the younger generations. On the other hand, the development of emergency medical units will ensure a better distribution of emergency doctors according to the territorial context. A more effective emergency organization will be established through co-operation protocols with all physicians and health professionals in the territory concerned and through the creation of the nursing profession in advanced emergency practice. In short, our overall action will help to refocus hospital emergencies on their core business, so that emergency services will no longer be the only response to an unexpected need for care. Our attention is fully mobilized, as is that of the services of the ARS of the PACA region, in favour of the emergencies of Sisteron.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u158	Mrs Emmanuelle Fontaine-Domeizel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u159	Please know, Madam Secretary of State, that we are as stubborn as we are pognaces. I expected a strong commitment from the Minister of Health to confirm that when the number of doctors is sufficient to operate Sisteron's emergencies, they will reopen. I hear that action has been taken and I congratulate the minister for doing so, but we also need to hear that this emergency department will be able to reopen upon the arrival of doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u160	Mr François Jolivet, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, referred to his question No. 931 on hospital arrangements for childbirth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u161	The Social Security Financing Act for 2020 provides for the creation of a new right, the right to transport between home and motherhood, as well as accommodation nearby, as pregnant women residing more than 45 minutes from a motherhood find themselves deprived of access to care and reception for childbirth. It was essential to propose accompanying measures to avoid widening inequalities in access to these health services. These inequalities are probably due to the least attractiveness of certain areas where motherhood is firm, but they are also the sad consequence of what the Minister of Health has called a "let go" destructive of health for several years. In accordance with the principle of saying what is being done and doing what is being said, I would therefore like to obtain precise information on the announced scheme, which I find in my constituency, particularly in the White, that few women and doctors know the existence. Because of this lack of information, women who are due to give birth in Châteauroux, Poitiers or Châtellerault may end up giving birth in an emergency room or ambulance. In this regard, it is necessary to maintain and support emergency services in all rural areas. Can you tell me what recommendations the regional health agencies have or would have made to hospital managers and general practitioners regarding the prescription of transport and accommodation? On the other hand, what will be the conditions of care in case women domiciled in Indre – in the region Centre-Val-de-Loire – choose to give birth in Vienna, i.e. in New Aquitaine, where the primary health insurance funds are separate? Finally, what procedure should they follow, on the understanding that the Vitale card does not allow reimbursement of hotel costs? I understand that the information systems of the primary health insurance funds do not know how to reimburse hotel rooms. What measures have been taken by the Ministry of Health in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u162	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u163	The changes in the provision of care give rise to legitimate concern among the population, especially when they result in the closure of maternity homes in some territories. As early as spring 2019, the Minister of Solidarity and Health has committed herself to establishing a right – a commitment embodied in the latest law on the financing of social security – to ensure the security of the care of women far from a motherhood and their infants. The departments of the Ministry are working with the health insurance departments to implement these new rights in practice. At the same time, consultations are under way with all the professionals involved in the maternity journey. The aim is to quickly put in place simple tools to use. As regards eligibility and length of access to maternity, work is under way. In any event, the eligibility will take into account the particular and local circumstances which may lead to longer journey times. I have heard, honourable Member, your desire not to allow us to be confined by too rigid a threshold. On the other hand, the role of emergency services and community services such as perinatal centres, often established as relays – there are already more than a hundred – is essential. At the same time, the work we are undertaking on the mission of the perinatal community centres, which offer a range of services ranging from the monitoring of pregnancy to the consultation of the mother and the newborn after delivery, should be reflected in the decree updating the conditions for the authorization of obstetric activity. You said, however, that some difficulties are specific to a particular territory, each being different from its neighbour. Regional health agencies must do fine work and communicate with women in need of maternity services, in order to inform them according to each territory of the new rights and tools available to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u164	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u165	Thank you for the quality of your answer, Madam Secretary of State. In order for this matter to proceed, it would probably be desirable for the Minister of Solidarity and Health to tell us when the consultation will be concluded with the medical partners as well as the mutualists, because the complementary health care must bear part of this new expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u166	Mrs Danielle Brulebois, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised her question, No. 932 on medical desertification in the Jura.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u167	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the deployment of the "my health 2022" strategy in my Jura department. The majority have adopted important measures to combat what is known as medical desertification, in particular the recruitment of 400 salaried general practitioners, in order to meet the needs of territories that no longer have doctors. These paid doctors are very much expected, because the fear that our fellow citizens will no longer be able to care for themselves is particularly anxious, as I have recently heard from representatives of the collective "Healthy Life in the Little Mountain", whose petition collected 1500 signatures. The community of communes Terres d'Emerald, its communes, the hospital centre and the French Mutuality are ready to commit themselves to this scheme. What are the means used to find doctors and encourage them to settle in a particularly welcoming rural department, where the quality of life is exceptional? Similarly, we expect a lot from the local health professional communities, the CPTS, as they will allow patients without a physician to find one and guarantee them access to informal consultations during the day. The desire to create these CPTS exists but writing such a project bringing together all health actors across a vast territory takes a lot of time and resources. Are they sufficient and coordinated in time? In short, Madam Secretary of State, what is the status of the implementation of these two mechanisms in the first district of Jura?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u168	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u169	The deployment of 400 general practitioners in priority territories and the acceleration of the creation of the CPTS are indeed part of the provisions of the national strategy "my health 2022" which the Government wishes to implement quickly. More than 100 posts are already filled or expected to be filled in the coming months, thanks to the commitment of regional health agencies and their partners, to offer attractive offers. In the Jura department, three posts are open in Morez, Saint-Claude and Lons-le-Saunier. The year 2019 was also marked by the dynamics of the CPTS: 450 projects, at varying degrees of maturity, were recorded last November, an increase of 125% since June 2018; In addition, CPTS's first accessions to the interprofessional framework agreement have been registered. It would be premature to take stock of the results of the CPTS, but several examples show that they have already enabled territories in difficulty to improve their situation, by promoting the development of traineeship, access to telemedicine or an unscheduled offer of advisory care. This dynamic and the capacity of local actors to innovate are also observed in the Jura department: a CPTS project is currently being accompanied in the Lédonian basin and three others are being considered. Mobilization is therefore at hand, because it is a matter for all of us to consolidate the movement engaged and to achieve it quickly in all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u170	Mrs Amélia Lakrafi has the floor to put her question, No. 934, concerning the care of retired French people living abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u171	My question, Madam Secretary of State, relates to the conditions under which the care provided in France to retired French nationals living abroad, particularly outside the European Union, can be taken care of. Two elements help to limit the rights of the Vitale card on national soil for those concerned, and I regret that. The first concerns the introduction of a minimum period of 15 years of contributions to a French scheme in order to be able to benefit from sickness insurance during one-off stays in France. The second, the collateral effect of the termination of the status of entitled person, concerns the situation of the major beneficiaries of a French pensioner established abroad, who are most often women. As they cannot justify the condition of residence in France giving access to universal disease protection, PUMA, these people are no longer covered for their care in France, whereas they were previously covered. Access to care in France is the only gateway to basic medical follow-up for many pensioners from abroad with very low incomes and, at the same time, responds to a high level of prevention. Indeed, the use of private insurance or the Caisse des Français de l'étranger – the CFE – to benefit from health insurance in France or abroad is not within the reach of all scholarships. For example, the amount of membership of the CFE for the sole coverage of care in France for a couple of people over the age of 60 is 260 euros per month. It should be noted that pensioners only have access to CFE offers if they have contributed at least 15 years to a French scheme, in application of the new conditions introduced in the Social Security Financing Act for 2019. In other words, even those who would have the means to cover themselves cannot be sure if they are not able to justify this minimum contribution period. In the end, there is much to bet that the people affected by this restriction of law will simply give up the care and, thus, increase the ranks of our compatriots from abroad far from any health system, who suffer or die from pathologies that are easy to detect and treat. In Cameroon, for example, 50 French nationals had died in two years because of pathologies that could have been easily treated. In my discussions with the relevant ministerial offices, I found that the Government was not hostile to developments on these two issues. I plead that the minimum contribution period should be reduced to 10 years and that there should be sufficient time for new pensioners to anticipate these new rules. On the other hand, I very much hope that the issue of the major beneficiaries will be resolved quickly. Finally, I hope that our citizens abroad can be fully integrated into the "my health 2022" strategy, whose ambition is to be welcomed, as well as the efforts made in favour of hospitals. This is a matter of justice as well as a public health issue. Our country has just shown that it was able to mobilize important means to protect our fellow citizens from an alarming health risk. It seems to me that an effort could also be made without any real impact on the state budget in favour of the 100 pensioners affected by the change in the rules on access to care in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u172	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u173	This is a technical but important subject. The full coverage of the care provided in France to pensioners of a French scheme residing abroad – more than 780000 – is provided for by the Social Security Code. It shall be carried out on the basis of differentiated criteria and in accordance with existing international agreements. It is intended to apply to all pensioners residing abroad, regardless of their nationality. This is a fairness measure. The 15 year health insurance contribution threshold in France has been re-established as it represents a balance between the contributory capacity of the insured and the cost of taking care of the care provided to them in France during temporary stays. This condition applies only to pensioners who do not benefit in their country of residence from the care provided by France. It allows us to continue to take care of the care provided in France to our pensioners, without any coordination between their country of residence and ours. Sensitive to the concerns of the French abroad, transmitted by the parliamentarians concerned, of which you yourself, the Government has ensured that the ministerial instruction in this matter provides for some relaxations, including the progressive implementation of the aforementioned measure for persons affiliated with social security. Thus, insured persons who have contributed ten years or more in France will be able to maintain their health insurance in the same way. Insured persons who have contributed at least five years and not more than ten years will have a transition period of three years. Finally, in order to take account of the rights acquired in respect of a membership prior to the reform of universal health protection, the spouses of the beneficiaries of this health insurance may also retain it, provided that they are registered with a French health insurance fund for the payment of their health costs induced by the care provided during temporary stays in France. Mrs Lakrafi, I hope that I have calmed the concerns of the French established abroad that you have mentioned. I also hope that the above-mentioned adjustments will improve the treatment of their health expenses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u174	Mrs Amélia Lakrafi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u175	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, but it is still incomplete. I will work further with the relevant ministerial offices.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u176	The next speaker is Mr Guy Teissier, to put his question, No. 943, on the research centre at the Sainte-Marguerite hospital in Marseille.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u177	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health. I learned last week, from the candidate of La République on the way to the municipal elections in Marseille, that the Government decided, within the framework of the interministerial committee on the performance and modernization of the offer of hospital care – COPERMO – to grant financial support to the Public Assistance – Hospitals of Marseille – AP-HM – to the amount of 168 million euros. If I condemn the form, on the merits, I thank the Government. The total amount of the project requires an investment of €337 million. The difference will be borne by the local authorities concerned. Given the state of disrepair of the hospital in La Timone, which requires the renovation of three entire floors as well as the creation of a new level 3 maternity and a building dedicated to the SAMU, on the one hand, and the complexity of the work in hospital, on the other hand, the site will last very long and will necessarily be very expensive. In addition, the security and restoration of the main building of the North Hospital must be carried out, as well as the extension of its resuscitation service. Definitely, the account isn't there! On the other hand, I am surprised that COPERMO did not address the issue of the maintenance and modernization of the buildings of the Sainte-Marguerite Hospital, located to the east of our city. Local authorities – the municipality of Marseille, the metropolis Aix-Marseille-Provence and the departmental council – have developed a project for this site, as part of a public-private partnership. To date, only the Luminy technopole is composed of research laboratories, the extension of which is an overriding necessity. However, the technopole is located in a buffer zone separating the heart of Calanques National Park from its optimal membership area, which excludes any possibility of construction. However, there is a strong demand from local healthcare companies to work in close partnership with academic and clinical research centres, within the framework of a geographical proximity that facilitates the networking of the actors concerned, thus the flow of knowledge. This would include bringing together the National Centre for Scientific Research – CNRS –, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research – INSERM – and the Pôle de médecine physique et de réadaptation – médecine du sport, as well as a large number of research laboratories, currently located on Luminy campus. Such a grouping at the Sainte-Marguerite Hospital site would have many advantages, including the immense one of fostering an insitu rapprochement between basic and applied research. I would also like to know how much the commitment of the State, through the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, could amount to in this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u178	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u179	COPERMO met last week to discuss the modernization project of the AP-HM, providing for the renovation of the site of La Timone, which will host by 2027 a new level 3 maternity and a building dedicated to the SAMU-SMUR, as well as that of the North Hospital, including the security and restructuring of its main building, as well as the extension of its resuscitation service. This is a major project for the transformation of the AP-HM. In view of COPERMO's favourable opinion, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health has decided to validate the entire project, which aims to improve the quality of patient care and the working conditions of medical teams. The Minister announced a national aid of EUR 168 million to secure the financing of the operation. It represents 50% of the investment cost of this ambitious project, a very strong commitment of support from the state, reflecting its confidence in the AP-HM, whose needs it recognizes. Since last month, AP-HM has also benefited from national investment aid amounting to EUR 2.2 million, so that it can purchase without delay the equipment essential for the work of carers and the improvement of their daily lives. In addition, the project under consideration by COPERMO also provides for the land transfer of the parcels you mentioned, Mr. Teissier. This land reserve is an interesting opportunity, in a context of high urban density. Finally, you referred to the ongoing reflection on the consolidation of research activities on the Sainte-Marguerite site. Before any real estate project, it is necessary to develop a scientific and medical project. Studies, carried out jointly by local actors, are under way. It is important to allow consultations and studies to take place, with a view to building a scientific and medical project. The State will then be able to decide on the necessary accompaniment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u180	Mr Guy Teissier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u181	Madam Secretary of State, that's what's called kicking in touch, or returning to the Greek calends!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u182	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u183	The project to consolidate research activities on the Sainte-Marguerite site goes far beyond Marseilles. We are experiencing a real disaster in this country with regard to medical research laboratories. They are very often prisoners, corsetted when their research – which is generally of high quality – approaches their conclusion. Without being able to bring them to a successful conclusion, they are very often forced to sell the fruit to foreign laboratories, particularly the US, which is frankly deplorable! On the other hand, I take note – I did not know – that the renovation of the La Timone site should be completed by 2027. But you can't imagine the state of deterioration in which the building is located. Madam Secretary of State, 2027, it's far away! None of this is encouraging, either for the representatives of the nation we are and for the local elected representatives, or for the medical profession, which works under very deplorable conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u184	Mr Philippe Bolo, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 946, on the functioning of Ameli.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u185	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Solidarity and Health to the dysfunctions of the Ameli system, as well as to the serious damage that may result from it. While dematerialisation is a priority and a necessity to facilitate access to public service, it must not neglect to adapt to the citizens, who are the main beneficiaries. I was questioned about an insured person who was subject to health insurance for not being aware of applications submitted by the only dematerialized means of his Ameli account, to which he could not access because of his state of health. Unfortunately, his situation is not a single case. Two administrative penalties are provided for in this case, the termination of care or the deduction from daily allowances. These two decisions can have very important financial effects for insured persons already weakened by the disease. There are several reasons for the failure to process requests made through the Ameli account's digital services. In some cases, these are specific reasons for insured persons, such as the fragility induced by their physical or psychological health and isolation. In other cases, digital technology is the cause. This is the case, for example, in white areas. We can also mention the malfunctioning of the hardware or the Internet service provider, the hacking of e-mails, the creation of false Ameli accounts, and even the change of e-mail address. The national task of monitoring and auditing social security agencies is anchored in a position of intransigence on this point. This unfavourable position for insured persons, together with the possible repetition of incidents, puts health insurance at the risk of many insured persons withdrawing their consent to the use of Ameli, in favour of non-dematerialised processing of their files. I would also like to recall the position of the Defender of Rights with regard to the dematerialization of public services: "It is necessary that people be accompanied in the use of digital technology in order to prevent the digital transformation of public services further aggravate their difficulties. » Madam Secretary of State, can you inform us about the corrective measures the Government intends to put in place to correct the above-mentioned situations and prevent them from occurring, thus guaranteeing the accessibility of all insured persons to the benefit of national solidarity?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u186	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u187	Digital technology is a major opportunity for everyone to have access to the public service, including in cases of physical remoteness and outside normal business hours, provided that the territory has network coverage and users have easy access to digital technology. The Ameli account allows those who wish to benefit from the advantages of dematerialization: accessibility 24 hours a day, mobility, speed, immediacy, autonomy, simplicity. We need to pay particular attention to the accessibility of public services for persons with disabilities. Deployed teleservices meet the conditions set out in the General Accessibility Repository for Authorities – RGAA. However, it is necessary to develop a framework for digital inclusion and the fight against digital access difficulties. Social security funds offer support to insured persons in the use of digital services. They offer assistance in an agency or even training provided by their social workers or by partners in digital mediation to insured persons who are furthest away from the digital sector. In any case, they systematically offer an alternative to digital, deploying local physical reception points as well as the possibility of obtaining a telephone response or by mail. These contact channels are complementary to the digital offer. Finally, users can always find community assistance in France Service houses, which are being deployed in the territories. Mr Bolo, I assure you that we take this subject very seriously. In addition, the Minister for Solidarity and Health has set results targets for the social security funds in terms of accessibility to public services, particularly with regard to digital accessibility. In this respect, it is not intransigence that must be demonstrated, but rather understanding, accompaniment and flexibility, because there are many people who cannot access digital technology in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u188	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u189	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for that precise answer. I have taken note of your comments on user support and contact channels offering alternative solutions. However, let us not lose sight of the fact that the remoteness of digital services sometimes results from the illness of insured persons, and not only from their difficulties in accessing digital services. Good access to dematerialised services and their proper functioning and the right level of service provided are very important for many French citizens. It is necessary to ensure that Ameli remains a tool capable of adapting to particular situations, and to ensure that it does not become a vector of depersonalization and dehumanization. It is not necessary to make a tool designed to accompany the medical follow-up of the care of the French an anxiety tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u190	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 948, concerning the paediatric resuscitation service at the Mans hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u191	Since 1 January 2020, the paediatric resuscitation service at the Le Mans Hospital has been closed following the voluntary departure of paediatric doctors. This is a first in France. Patients between the ages of three months and fifteen years are transferred to Angers, Nantes, Tours or Paris for lack of care in the Sarthe, resulting in an increase in activity for the units already under stress in the university hospitals concerned and in the legitimate concern of the families. Users, health workers and citizens are particularly concerned about the risks faced by these young children. No one is immune from a contagious infection or an accident. Concerns are all the greater as other service practitioners appear to be planning to leave the service in the coming months. These new departures could put the neonatal resuscitation service in great difficulty and lead to the loss of type III maternity approval, which allows for the care of pathological pregnancies. A number of avenues can be considered: collaboration between hospital groups of territories with a departmental vocation in the region of the Pays de la Loire and outside; collaboration with health institutions and liberal firms with the necessary medical resources; the priority allocation of interns in specialty services, under the guidance of practitioners in the department; taking care of the travel of practitioners from CHU or public institutions, including from the Paris region; the testing of paediatric and neonatal telemedicine surveillance services 24 hours a day within a CHU in the region or outside the administrative region – this would complement medical procedures. It should also be possible to recruit profiles in a more targeted manner according to the different medical activities and the posts concerned. More generally, in order to facilitate the training of new physicians and their eventual installation in the territory, it would be useful to identify the needs according to the specialties. This work would be carried out by the various actors: hospital centres, university hospital centres, order of doctors, regional union of health professions, faculties of medicine or nearest health. Our fellow citizens are legitimately concerned about the deterioration in the provision of care. Therefore, what temporary and lasting measures does the Minister of Solidarity and Health intend to take to preserve the services in difficulty, train and attract doctors to hospital and ensure continuity of care with all urban professionals? More specifically, what does it intend to do to preserve the services threatened by the Le Mans hospital, whose vocation is not only departmental but also interdepartmental?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u192	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u193	I understand your concern today. Let me make a few points. The pediatric and neonatal resuscitation service at Le Mans Hospital is faced with a shortage of doctors. To remedy this, the heads of the hospital have taken several measures related to the internal organisation and the activities of the service: the active research of practitioners with the active support of the regional health agency – ARS; the closure of the four paediatric resuscitation beds to safeguard neonatal resuscitation, intensive neonatology care and neonatology. The aim is to preserve 28 beds in order to meet the priority needs of maternity. Subsequently, cooperation was established between the Le Mans Hospital and the Tertre Rouge Clinic, which has an intensive care service. Finally, the conditions under which the activities in the service are carried out are being redefined, in order to allow the remaining team to focus on intensive support. The ARS has repeatedly brought together the various actors – the CHUs of Tours, Angers, Nantes and the Red Tertre in Le Mans clinic – to identify the support they can provide to the Le Mans hospital centre. The CHU de Tours and Angers have thus committed themselves to creating, as early as November, posts of assistants shared with the hospital center of Le Mans. There are also plans to establish assistant clinic chiefs positions. The outlook is now more satisfactory and reassuring. They ensure that activities are maintained for the benefit of Sarthois patients. At the end of the first half of the year, the ARS, in consultation with elected representatives, health professionals and all stakeholders in the territory, will propose a health pact for the Sarthe for the period 2020-2022, allowing the valorisation and expansion of existing projects and the continuation of support to improve access to care in the department.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u194	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u195	I thank the Secretary of State for the response she has just given me, which I knew in part. My question also contained complementary leads – I have been defending this hospital for a very long time, on which I am working in collaboration with the ARS – which I would like to see studied in the framework of the consultation that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u196	I call Mr Fabien Roussel to speak on his question No 925 on medical desertification in Saint-Amand-les-Eaux.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u197	Despite the magnitude of the needs, medical deserts are spreading. Many physicians do not find successors at the time of retirement. Based on this, my city, the municipality of Saint-Amand-les-Eaux, the doctors and the hospital have together built a medical integration project to facilitate the installation of young doctors. This one works pretty well. Six young practitioners will settle by the end of 2021, three of them before the end of the year. A young doctor, installed thanks to this device, already receives more than 800 patients. Patients of retired physicians, who are usually orphaned, will be taken over by their successors. This social project of medical integration – PSIM –, thus called by the association of general practitioners and specialists of Amandinois, aims to offer prospects of installation to future doctors even before the end of their studies. If they usually had to provide replacements for an average of seven years prior to the opening of their firm, they can now pursue a permanent activity as soon as they obtain their thesis. Thanks to the PSIM, young practitioners integrate a medical network in which they benefit from the support and advice of their peers, especially the older ones, whose ambition is to transmit the know-how and knowledge acquired during their careers. These young doctors are discharged from administrative tasks, very time-consuming, related to the management of a firm. These are carried out by a secretary, the hospital providing the material logistics necessary to start the practitioner's activity. Finally, the municipality grants a grant to the doctor during his first three years of practice to accompany him in his installation in the city – 9000 euros per year, or 27000 euros in total. Although this amount is modest compared to other investments by the RSA and communities – to create health homes, for example, which are much more expensive – it represents a large expenditure for an average municipality, especially if it has to be multiplied to benefit six doctors! We wanted to share this positive and innovative experience with you in the hope of gaining the support of the ministry and the ARS, perhaps through a labeling of this approach but also with financial assistance in order to lighten the commitment of the city which is not the primary vocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u198	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u199	In order to combat medical deserts and to alleviate the scarcity of doctors, the Minister of Solidarity and Health and the Minister of Higher Education decided to increase the number of medical students and to abolish the numerus clausus. Nevertheless, the effects of this decision will not be felt for about ten years. You are presenting a particularly interesting initiative, since the local actors in your city have created a favourable ecosystem that will attract young doctors: PSIM. It seems to be a success. The SRA must be very attentive to the particular accompaniment and environment that you have created in your territory. Your project is a perfect illustration of the complementarities between local policies – local elected officials know the ground – and state policies. I can assure you that the ARS will contact, if not already done, your municipality of Saint-Amand-les-Eaux as well as the liberal health professionals concerned to discuss how to support and sustain this innovative scheme. It is necessary to reinforce what works, or even duplicate it elsewhere where possible. We must all be aware of the importance of accompanying proactive public action.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u200	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to raise her question, No. 944, concerning the digestive surgery service of the Castelsarrasin Moissac intercommunal hospital centre.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u201	In recent months, I have been regularly alerted by many actors – elected, patients and staff of the Castelsarrasin Moissac intercommunal hospital – about the extremely worrying situation of the digestive surgery service on which depends the sustainability of the surgical activity of this institution. Despite numerous interventions with the administration and the various departments of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the responses obtained were not satisfactory. To date, the only change has been the presence of surgeons over a continuous four-day period, not three as originally envisaged in the shared medical plan. The medical staff, to whom I wish to pay tribute for their exemplary dedication and deep attachment to the hospital, have reported numerous dysfunctions following the application of the shared medical plan, which introduces a system of rotation of surgeons. Since mid-October, one part-time surgeon and five surgeons based in Montauban have been performing consultations and interventions on the same day. This permanent rotation leads to a transfer of activity to the Montauban hospital centre, especially from Friday to Monday, during which time no surgeon is present in Moissac. This organization is not sustainable in the long term. The evidence is that, since the introduction of this system, the five surgeons in Montauban have performed only five operations, whereas the surgeon who had previously performed fifteen operations over the same period. There has been a drastic decrease in the number of interventions: 20 interventions since 15 October 2019, compared to 363 in 2018. In addition, staff report a shift towards the ambulance, which cannot be the only response given the large number of elderly or isolated people in that territory. This poses a real problem for post-operative follow-up and patient safety. Treating physicians and patients lose confidence and are reluctant to turn to the facility. We must therefore act quickly. The role of the Tarn-et-Garonne territory hospital group needs to be clarified. The latter must encourage the necessary complementarity between hospital establishments and not facilitate the absorption of the intercommunal hospital centre of Castelsarrasin Moissac by that of Montauban. That is why I ask the Minister of Solidarity and Health to organize a high-level meeting of all stakeholders – elected, staff, users, administrations, ARS and cabinet – in order to find a solution to this worrying situation. To date, mobilization has not weakened and the answers provided have not alleviated legitimate concerns. Is the minister ready to open the requested digestive surgery position, which seems to be the simplest and most effective solution?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u202	The Secretary of State to the Minister of Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u203	You mention the difficulties of the intercommunal hospital Castelsarrasin Moissac, especially the digestive surgery service. Medical skills are rarer, as you know – this topic is present in all the questions I answer in this session. The hospital has been weakened by a surgeon vacancy since November 2018. The installation of a territorial digestive surgery team combining the Montauban hospital centre and the Castelsarrasin Moissac hospital centre should be an example of an organisation guaranteeing access to hospital care. The shared medical project of the Tarn-et-Garonne territory hospital group is part of this logic of consultation and efficiency in order to meet the needs of the population. In concrete terms, this new organisation, based on a team of five surgeons, will propose a treatment of digestive surgery from Monday to Thursday in the premises of the hospital center of Castelsarrasin Moissac. The Director General of the Regional Health Agency Occitanie has recently reaffirmed his commitment to maintaining, monitoring and evaluating the surgical activity of the inter-municipal hospital in Castelsarrasin Moissac, as part of the shared medical project. If the need arises, the SRA Occitanie will also provide financial support for the implementation of the new organization. Finally, as part of the plan to invest for the hospital, and to meet the daily needs of the healthcare teams, a first financial envelope of 250,000 euros has just been allocated to the hospital center of Castelsarrasin Moissac in order to carry out the current investments. I understand, honourable Member, that you are not entirely convinced and satisfied with this organizational proposal, which you do not think meets expectations. I therefore believe that you need to take back your pilgrim stick and organize a meeting between the various hospitals and the hospital groups of territories. It is up to them to be useful to the people by ensuring access to health care and meeting the health needs of the territories. If you consider that these missions are not carried out in Castelsarrasin Moissac, I invite you to organize a meeting with the regional health agency in order to address these issues again and to ensure a day-to-day follow-up. I know you have that territorial attention that is the best method.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u204	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u205	I thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for these opening words at the end of your reply, which the first part has disappointed me enough – even though I know that, not belonging to the solidarity and health pole of the Government, you are only passing on the elements that have been communicated to you, which are already known. My question was precise: I wanted to know whether a post would be opened at the hospital in Castelsarrasin Moissac because, contrary to what you said, there were many candidates for digestive surgery. The latter were not retained; Another solution has been proposed. Today we need to put all stakeholders around the table in order to find the right solutions. In this regard, I hope that your colleague, the Minister of Health, will follow the suggestion that concluded your remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u206	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-02-04-O1132.u207	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Debate on France's maritime policy. The meeting is adjourned.
