ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft amending finance law for 2020 (No. 2820, 2822). As the health crisis does not make it possible to be in the Chamber, the Conference of Presidents has laid down derogating rules for the organisation of sittings. Firstly, the eight groups are represented, in addition to their chairman or representative, by only two Members each. The votes will be by show of hands, with each chairman or his/her representative holding the votes of his/her entire group. For voting on the whole text, this principle also applies, but Members have the possibility, before explanations of vote, to inform their group or the service of the sitting that they wish to vote differently. Non-attached Members also have the opportunity to communicate their voting positions on the whole text to the service of the sitting. Thus, each Member's position on the whole text will be taken into account. I would also remind you that, since the reform of our Rules of Procedure, every Member has the opportunity to present a written contribution, which will be appended to the record of the proceedings. In the general discussion, speakers will speak from their bench and not from the rostrum. I invite everyone not to put their hands on the microphone, which will be cleaned by a bailiff after each use, but I invite everyone to use a separate microphone. Of course, the barrier measures we all know must be respected; In particular, the entrances and exits of the Chamber will have to be staggered. Thank you for your understanding and assistance, given these very exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u3	Today we are looking at a bill to amend finance in an economic context that has no precedent in contemporary history. We are confronted with an economic shock comparable to the crisis of 1929 by the violence of the recession, which affects the real economy, which is deep and lasting, and which has an impact on all French companies and all employees, without exception, in their daily lives. The crisis affects all the states of the planet, in successive waves: first, China, then Europe, the United States today and the emerging countries probably tomorrow, in South America and then in Africa. For the first time in contemporary history, the entire world economy will end up at a halt. There is no economic model that would have failed and another that would have succeeded; There is a halt to the entire economy because of a global pandemic. This has led us to revise the growth figures. From the first days of the crisis, I had announced that the seriousness of the crisis would be unprecedented. As a first step, we estimated the recession at -1%. The length of confinement and the extension of the crisis to all countries led us to revise this forecast to -8% for the year 2020. This severe rate is not even definitive. To tell you the truth, I'd like to be sure that we stay there. This will depend on the evolution of the pandemic: will it resume in Asia? What impact will it have on the world's largest economies, particularly the United States? What will happen in developing countries, especially our African neighbours? So I say with modesty and humility, this growth forecast of -8% is to be taken with the utmost caution. In the face of this crisis, we, together with the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, have made a strategic choice, which I demand: to provide the maximum support from the State to companies and employees. Between the growth of debt and the proliferation of bankruptcies, we have chosen the first option, to preserve the economic fabric. This choice can be debated when the time comes, but I express it clearly before you. We did not count the means, the public support, or the singularity of the mechanisms to deal with this economic crisis, which we immediately took action on. First of all, we have deployed a mechanism designed not to lose the skills, which is the most valuable in an economy. The acquisition of know-how and skills took years and years of work for employees, workers and employees. We wanted to preserve them and prevent the violence of the crisis from eliminating them. That is why we have developed Europe's most generous system of partial unemployment, which differs from the past: once, when a crisis occurred in France, it was accepted that some of the employees should be partially unemployed and another part should be dismissed. This time, for political and economic reasons, we refused mass dismissals, and we agreed to compensate partial unemployment up to 4.5 SMIC, with compensation amounting to 100 per cent at the SMIC level and 84 per cent of net earnings above. The cost of this measure is extremely high, since almost 9 million employees are now partially unemployed, but this expenditure, which exceeds some 20 billion euros, constitutes an investment in the men and women who make our economy, an investment in the skills acquired by the employees of the companies during their apprenticeship years, and an investment in recovery, because partial unemployment will enable us to resume activity faster. We made a second choice: to support the cash flow of companies by postponing the payment of social and tax charges, by setting up a 90% state-guaranteed loan with an envelope of up to 300 billion euros, and by postponing the payment of water, gas and electricity bills. Support for corporate cash flow is vital in this period of crisis. Third choice: support for small entrepreneurs. The violence of the crisis often hits very small companies, those with fewer than ten employees. We have therefore set up a solidarity fund, which we are constantly improving, to which more than 900000 very small companies have already called. Fourth and final choice, we have put in place mechanisms to support large strategic companies in the aeronautics, automotive and health sectors that make our country's economic strength sound. It is essential to protect these companies, whose valuation is collapsing and which become easy prey for foreign investors. We are not inclined to sell at auction what has made our nation's economic power for decades. The amending finance bill that we are presenting to you, together with the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, is designed to strengthen this emergency mechanism. The latter has been asked massively: effective, it meets the needs of entrepreneurs and employees, but the use of partial unemployment is massive, it is very costly, hence the need to strengthen it financially. We take into account the comments and criticisms raised from the ground, in particular by you, parliamentarians, whatever your group. We've all listened to you, without exception. For example, you told us that another reference to the company's turnover should be used, as the 70% loss of revenue between March 2019 and March 2020 was too high a threshold to gain access to the solidarity fund. So we lowered it to 50%. You told us that the month of March 2019 was not the right reference, as the turnover was then low due to the movement of yellow vests, and businesses have been created since then. The draft amending finance law therefore sets another reference, corresponding to the monthly average of turnover in 2019. You also pointed out that the second floor, which is based on a case-by-case assessment and provides for aid of up to EUR 2000, was insufficient for a company with five or six employees receiving EUR 1500 but in need of a supplementary envelope. We therefore bring this support to 5000 euros. You pointed out that too many entrepreneurs, farmers in the lead, were excluded from the solidarity fund: they will be integrated into the scheme. Fragile companies, for example in judicial reform, will also be able to access it. We are improving the system as we move forward, as we systematically need to do for an emergency mechanism. You have told us, as well as the entrepreneurs, of some criticisms of the cash flow measures, including the refusal of certain companies to apply for a guaranteed loan. The number of such refusals is limited, I would like to make it clear. Contrary to what is said too easily, banks and their branches do the job: behind the counters, the agents, who receive the entrepreneurs by thousands, do the work and grant loans very widely. Of course, the refusal rate is 4 to 5 per cent. I asked to know the daily evolution of this rate, in order to transmit it, in full transparency, to the national representation and to the French as a whole. I would like this rate to fall, but it does not exceed 5 %, which means that 95 % of the loans requested by companies are granted to them. I will not let down the companies that have been denied the loan. We will take care of it and put in place specific arrangements. A company whose bank has refused the loan and which has not found a solution to the credit mediation will be able to benefit from a loan, not guaranteed by the State, but paid directly by it, from the economic and social development fund, provided, of course, that it restructures itself to be profitable tomorrow. Indeed, the state does not intend to spend French money for companies without a future; On the other hand, it will provide a direct loan to companies in great difficulty who need fresh money to restructure their accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u4	At what rate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u5	This loan will be channelled through the Economic and Social Development Fund, which will be increased from €75 million to €1 billion. We will also propose specific schemes for all SMEs that wish to restart their business and have an immediate need for liquidity. A large restaurateur, employing 20 to 30 employees and wishing to reopen his establishment, but whose cash flow is empty, will be able to obtain repayable advances. The same is true for this company that takes off the Arve valley, which no longer has orders because the automotive industry is at a standstill: to restart, it will have to buy steel balls and aluminum, so get out of the cash it does not have; cash advances will be available in the form of repayable advances provided by the State. A budget of EUR 500 million will be allocated to this scheme. Finally, we are aware that the special allocation account of the State Participation Agency is not sufficiently provided to protect the largest French companies. If you so decide, the allocation of this account will be increased to €20 billion, in order to support the capital of the strategic companies most at risk. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, MODEM and IDU-Agir groups]] With the Minister of Action and Public Accounts, we look for strong and effective solutions for both employees and businesses every day. Every day, we look at sectors that need specific support. The prospect of the resumption of French economic activity raises considerable challenges. With the emergency plan that we have adopted and with its strengthening that we are proposing, we will be able to identify them more than if we had allowed the crisis and the damage that it has done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u6	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u7	In parliamentary history, there is no precedent for a budget text with such macroeconomic implications for public finances. The only possible point of comparison is the Second World War, during which, as everyone knows, Parliament never met freely and did not consider a finance bill. We are presenting you with a public deficit of 9% – I say this to President Eric Woerth, who had to deal with the difficult financial crisis of 2009, when the deficit was 7.2% for the whole year. The deficit reached 9% this time at the end of the first month of confinement, which is only the fourth month of the year – and this rate, unfortunately uncertain, may seem moderate when the time comes for the annual balance sheet, the Minister of Economy and Finance said. Debt amounts to 115 per cent of GDP, an increase of 20 points in three months. The government deficit, in all administrations, reached 185 billion euros, compared to 91 billion euros in the original finance law – it therefore doubled. Finally, to cite another aggregate that is commonly debated in peacetime, public expenditure accounts for 61 per cent of GDP. For anyone who examined the public finances of France and the European Union only a month and a half ago, these figures are incredible. We also see that all European countries, regardless of the initial state of their public finances, are in the same situation. Let us come to the content of this second amending finance bill. I will endeavour not to be redundant with the Minister of Economy and Finance, and to focus more specifically on its budgetary implications. In the wake of PLFR 1, it foresees a plan of EUR 110 billion which includes cash-flow measures, in the form of carry-overs of payment of expenses and taxes, allocations of budgetary appropriations much higher than a month ago, measures to mobilise other public resources – notably from UNEDIC and local authorities, in particular the regions, to feed the solidarity fund – and articles of letters aimed at improving the economic and social organisation of France in this period of crisis. First of all, this second amending finance bill makes it possible to replenish, if I may say so, the arrangements that you adopted in the first one. This is the case for partial unemployment, of which I do not go back to the obvious interest: over three months, including the last month, that of confinement, it represents more than EUR 24 billion, one third of which comes from UNEDIC and the other two thirds of the state budget. This is also the case for the Solidarity Fund for Self-Employed Workers, whose state funding will increase from 750 million to nearly 7 billion. I note with the national representation that our partners continue to accompany us. On the one hand, the insurers paid 185 million euros out of the 200 million promised, and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy and Finance are continuing their discussions with them to increase their participation. On the other hand, the regions have committed money – to my knowledge, only Brittany and Occitanie have ordered payments to the Directorate-General for Public Finance, but, for having approached the issue with President Muselier, I know that the other payments will not be delayed. The €7 billion recharging of the Solidarity Fund must meet some 936000 independents who have applied to benefit from it, half of whom have already received their aid from the Directorate-General for Public Finance. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the agents of the USSRAF who work on the postponements of charges and all those of the DGFIP who, exercising under the same conditions as all the other employees, accept the numerous and useful changes that the Parliament and the Government have decided to ensure that this solidarity fund benefits as many people as possible. In addition, the text provides for the recharging of EUR 700 million for the BACEA, the annex budget "Air control and operation", in order to pay the salaries of air traffic controllers. In the face of the profound difficulties faced by airlines, it was decided by decree that they would not have to pay their charges immediately; As a result, the lack of funding for the annex budget needs to be addressed. However, PLFR 2 is not limited to charging devices in PLFR 1 ; It also contains new measures. I do not go back to those of an economic nature mentioned by the Minister of the Economy: EUR 20 billion is spent on EPA, the State Equity Agency, and the funds of the Economic and Social Development Fund are increasing from EUR 75 million to EUR 1 billion. In addition to 2.5 billion mobilised under Article 7 of the LOLF, the Organic Law on Finance Laws, which makes it possible to create a pocket of appropriations intended to cover accidental and unpredictable expenses without calamities – this article had not yet been used, but it needed a start, Mr Carrez, and I stressed the originality of the mechanism before the Finance Committee. In this exceptional situation, the Government is asking the Parliament to be able to use these appropriations without the latter knowing what they will be used for – this has been validated by the Council of State, which did not dissociate Article 7, Mr Carrez. Since we sometimes have to think and act by walking, I can already tell you that the Government will be in favour of the amendment by the rapporteur-general, which aims to allocate EUR 880 million, i.e. a good third of the 2.5 billion, to the payment of the precarious premium which some 4 million people will receive, at a rate of EUR 150 per beneficiary of the RSA, the income of active solidarity, and EUR 100 per child. It goes without saying that I undertake before the rapporteur-general to report to the National Assembly on the use of the rest of these appropriations – about 1.5 billion – even more than others, knowing that they will not fail to be consumed. Think that the solidarity fund that you voted to set up a month ago with €1 billion is already almost dry. It is for this reason that these appropriations must be adopted quite quickly – although I thank President Ferrand for having accepted, at the request of the Prime Minister, that the consideration of this text be slightly delayed in the Assembly's agenda so that parliamentarians can study it as calmly as possible. The State's appropriations, in fact, are limited, and the fund, once again, is exhausted; We will probably not have the opportunity to talk about it very soon – although we will not have the opportunity to talk about it in the near future. This PLFR also contains articles of letters in order to respond to questions from Parliament and to follow up on government announcements. This is first of all the desocialization and defiance of bonuses in the three public functions: hospital public service, I will return to it; public service, this referred to; as local authorities will be able to pay these bonuses outside the framework of the RIFSEEP, the compensation scheme taking into account functions, hardships, expertise and professional commitment – the Secretary of State working with me, who will be present earlier, will be able to answer any questions you may have on the subject. I would add that the territorial employers will, for their part, be discharged from the payment of employers' contributions. It is also planned to support ultramarine territories, particularly those in the Pacific. After discussions with Thierry Santa, President of the Government of New Caledonia, a loan of 240 million euros – which a government amendment will aim to strengthen – will be granted to this territory. We are also in discussion with President Édouard Fritch so that French Polynesia is not forgotten in the next budget text that we will not fail to present to you. In addition, these territories will be supported in the area of partial unemployment, even if this is not the responsibility of the State. The Republic will therefore respond to requests from the Pacific Territories for assistance. The Government has tabled eight amendments – limited but important – which I have tried to communicate in real time to the rapporteur-general and to the chairman of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control. First, €281 million will be allocated to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the purchase of masks for civil servants, as Bercy is the head of the Procurement Directorate and UGAP, the Union of Public Procurement Groups. Several of you have raised the problem of zoos, circuses and other establishments in the same economic sector, faced with similar difficulties, which no longer receive income but where partial unemployment is not possible because the agents responsible for the maintenance of animals continue to work. An amendment will save these activities. The Ministry of Economy also offers a EUR 500 million repayable advance to small businesses. A budget of €1.2 billion from the State budget will make it possible to overcome the shortcomings of the system already adopted for the care of children, and I would point out that the measure is retroactive. The UNEDIC ceiling will be raised so that it can borrow, as we have done by decree for ACOSS, the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies. The validity of tax stamps will be extended to 12 months. The mayors, that of Angers in particular, have in fact pointed out to us that the current duration was too short, given the impossibility of moving. We have therefore been happy to accept this last-minute proposal, but one that is common sense for local authorities and taxpayers alike. I come to the point that the PLFR 2 does not contain. With the exception of desocialisation and the defiance of bonuses, it does not include any measures concerning local authorities. We are discussing with them but their cash flow is not yet affected: in total, they still have about 39 billion left. Some 40 of them, across the country, requested cash advances from the State, which naturally granted them, either under the DGF – the overall operating allocation – or from the tax system. Nevertheless, the next budget text that the Government will submit to you will most certainly contain provisions on communities, as some revenue has already begun to decline: the granting of sea for ultramarine communities, transfer fees, taxes on stays and casino fees. The main difficulties, however, will arise in 2021 as a result of the drop in VAT, transfer duties and, no doubt, production taxes and even mobility payments, which will affect a number of supplementary budgets. The Government does not underestimate them in any way but will take the time to act with Parliament, at the disposal of which I stand, as I have indicated to the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur-general. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, the PLFR does not contain any measures relating to the EUR 8 billion announced by the President of the Republic in favour of health credits. If the State budget is limited, the social security budget is indicative; There would therefore be no legal meaning to present a draft law on the financing of corrective social security from now on, but it will come in the fall. Here again, however, I stand at the disposal of Parliament; The Social Affairs Committee of the Senate has already called me to present a photograph of the state of social accounts, and I would very much understand that the issue is also being dealt with today. The €8 billion allocated to the social security accounts, after the announcements made by the President of the Republic, particularly in Mulhouse, are well budgeted. It is from this budget that the premiums awarded to hospital public servants will be charged. These expenses will naturally be included in the government deficit but do not fall within the scope of PLFR 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u8	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u9	Almost a month ago to the day, we made a collective choice here: to protect the French from the coronavirus by willingly stopping the economy, or at least to slow it down very strongly. It was a decision taken by the Government and, I believe, by all of us on all the benches. As a result, we adopted an initial contingency plan that had several objectives: to support the productive fabric and businesses during this shutdown phase, in particular their cash flow, and to protect jobs and skills. Today, we are looking at a new amending finance bill, which first aims to "replenish," to use the words of the Minister of Public Action and Accounts, the necessary appropriations, increased to $110 billion. If we're dry, we have to fill up! We will also tighten the meshes of the economic safety net that we collectively woven a month ago. I would like to pay tribute to the work of all Members, on all benches, for the past month: they have been the guarantors of the proper implementation of the measures adopted, and the return of the land has largely fed the construction, the co-construction itself, of this budgetary collective. I will also talk about "PLFR bis" rather than "PLFR 2", as long as continuity is strong. Some 9 million employees benefit from the well-functioning partial-activity scheme. We therefore have an additional EUR 15.5 billion, 10.5 billion of which will be borne by the State. These are all employees that we are avoiding unemployment, and whose skills we are preserving in the same way to get our economy back on track tomorrow. To date, 900000 small businesses with fewer than 10 employees have made use of the solidarity fund: these are all elements of our productive fabric that are kept afloat, and it is happy. To meet the massive needs that have emerged, we are raising the State contribution from 750 million to 5.5 billion euros; Thanks to the other contributors, the regions, the insurers and a few companies, this fund has more than €7 billion. We found, on the ground, that certain conditions imposed in the initial milling were too restrictive. I thank the Government for hearing from parliamentarians, which has led it to lower the threshold for loss of turnover from 70 per cent to 50 per cent and to introduce a calculation based on the average turnover of the last 12 months rather than that of the previous month alone. These aids are exempt from tax. Finally, the current ceiling of EUR 2000 will be raised to EUR 5000. The banks granted 90 % state guaranteed loans to 200,000 companies for EUR 10 billion. Up to now, firms in difficulty were systematically excluded from the scheme, in application of the classic Bpifrance guarantee rule; Again, through collective work, companies in judicial reform or in safeguard proceedings will be able to benefit from this if they have entered this status after 1 January 2020. To this tight-wired safety net, this draft amending finance bill adds new mechanisms, which I will only mention: to provide the State with a capacity for large-scale equity participations, the special allocation account "State financial participations" will have an additional 20 billion; In order to protect the most fragile enterprises, the FDES funds - the economic and social development fund - are increased to EUR 1 billion; to protect exporting companies from the risk of unpaid payments, the short-term export credit insurance ceiling is increased to EUR 5 billion; Finally, a government amendment creates a new programme of repayable advances, which will be provided with 500 million euros. In committee, we have enriched the text in order to further increase the resistance of this safety net: on a proposal by Mrs Dominique David, the artists-authors will be exempted from the obligation to justify a SIRET number in order to be eligible for the solidarity fund; we also provide specific support to fragile households, as the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has said, through the transfer of EUR 880 million; We are facilitating the supply of masks by aligning their tax system with that of essential goods, the VAT rate applicable to them being reduced from 20% to 5.5% – this demand came from several banks, and I welcome the consensus that has emerged. We will be discussing 372 amendments together, which should bring us late this evening. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] I would like to reiterate before you, by opening this time of common work, that no one, no business, no employment, no citizen, no territory of the Republic should be left behind.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u10	Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u11	I will vote in favour of this text, unimaginable a few weeks ago, which reflects the sad news of a disease that forces everyone to lock themselves up at home and put our economy at risk. This draft law on amending finance reflects the massive, global, artificial support that public authorities provide to businesses and economic actors. During the discussion of PLFR 1, we warned you that your forecasts were unrealistic; you correct them there, by multiplying by eight the rate of the recession, by almost three that of the deficit. As for debt, it peaks at levels never reached since the war. These forecasts remain, you acknowledge, uncertain, and will probably have to be corrected again. We are in the big blue, and we dive even deeper than in 2008. These figures are understandable only if, after such massive public expenditure, an economic recovery comes. Since this is not a stop in the economy itself, but an administrative closure, it is necessary to organize the deconfination. When the crisis occurred, our public finances were weak, as you know; Therefore, we will not be able to keep up with this pace for a long time. The blitzkrieg implies a quick victory, otherwise the risk of sluggishness quickly becomes unbearable for the country: major social risk, risk of numerous bankruptcies, unacceptable risk of massive unemployment with its sinister cohorts. To succeed, you must first modify your text. Some good amendments have been voted on, but others have been rejected. You still need to expand the scope of the beneficiaries – I'm referring to the famous holes in the snowshoe. It is unpleasant to be a hole in the racket, because it is a very concrete situation. It is therefore necessary to simplify access to the devices, as the Germans are doing, and to use them to break with the very bureaucratic culture of our country. Trust the economic players and, if necessary, punish excesses – for example, partial unemployment. You need to clarify the carry-over of charges and levies, by turning it into a cancellation right now. Your $110 billion includes $45 billion in cash flow measures; We must put an end to this unbearable suspense for many of our economic actors: we cannot leave hotels, restaurants and all kinds of other businesses in this uncertainty. You bet on a quick, V-shaped cover, or rather resembling Nike's logo, i.e. with a slightly slower recovery. I know that you are thinking about the organization of the deconfinement: what will be the outline of its organization? The only precise data we have is the 11th of May. What will happen on May 12th? Will you reopen the shops? Will you restore the transport, necessary for everyone to go to work? Do you think it is a priority to restart certain economic sectors? I am thinking of the BTP, but also of the industry as a whole, which draws services. Will we have enough masks and tests to ensure safety at work? What are the outlines of the specific plan announced by the President of the Republic for tourism, shops, restaurants, hotels? What is a progressive recovery? Finally, there will be no effective decoupling without economic coordination – coordination between European countries first, but also with the United States or China. It is early to talk about it, of course, but the national scale is not relevant here. How do you work on these topics, and in what perspective? [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, we cannot draw a blank check on the French economy. Before you say by whom and how the bill will be paid – it will be huge – you must assure us that the Government will not try to get our economy back on track. The review of this text gives you an opportunity to explain your actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u12	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u13	As we know, our motion of rejection will be rejected and you will not resist the desire to tell us that, if it were adopted, the country would be deprived of the advantages that you claim to propose in your text. However, at a time when the homeland is struggling as it does, where, better than here, and when, better than now, can we meet again and solemnly in front of national representation and the whole country, to talk about the price and consequences of Europe's hijacking in which we are inserted in a total and unconditional way? Where, better than here, and when, better than now, can we debate the subject that has just been touched by the chairman of our Finance Committee: the burden of public debt, which will grow in such a way that we will now face a wall that will be permanently impossible to cross. This debt, in other words, has become unpayable – not only by the French, but by many other European countries. Europe's hijacking appears when its institutions announce, after having refused in an offensive way to the French government the creation of Eurobonds – and I am saying that I do not agree with this proposal – a plan of intervention of 540 billion. And many boast about it, while it is necessary to put this amount in relation to the wealth produced annually by Europe – 12,000 billion – and to the accumulated European public debt – 11,000 billion. In addition, these 540 billion are mainly payments carryovers and loan guarantees, so this is in no way a strong injection of money into Europe's economy to help it restart. How can we not see and not say that we observe a competition in truth as unhealthy as it was at the entrance to the confinement? Whatever is thought of it, the French set the date of 11 May, while the Germans decided to leave the confinement a week earlier, on 4 May. However, at a time when we are thinking about the organisation of this breakdown, we learn that 100,000 Romanian workers have been given the opportunity to enter the territory of the German Federal Republic, and perhaps tomorrow on that of Italy, for seasonal gatherings, even though Romania is still bound by confinement, on the orders of its government. How can we not see that this competition bodes ill for the future? Minister Le Maire, with a lot of lucidity, told the European Commission that the euro zone would explode if it were faced with too unequal a development of economies at the end of the confinement period. He is right, and we have to worry about it, because we must understand that such an explosion would only be a source of chaos, and in no way a correction, desired by many, of the course of European history. In all this, in essence, there is only one question: the European Union refuses to see what debt will weigh on our economies. I say this: it is not possible to propose as the only project to the younger generation, in the next century, that a lapidary "you have to pay the debt". It is time to find a solution that is none of those we have known in the past. We cannot pay; Others will not be able to pay either. The bankruptcy is not acceptable because it would cause chaos; hyperinflation is not desirable because it would be destructive; Clearly, no one sees war as a solution, whatever it has been used in the past. There is therefore only one solution, and we regret that you have refused in committee our amendment asking for a report on this subject: the cancellation of the debt, or at least, if the word is less afraid, its conversion into a perpetual debt without interest rates, which, without ruining the balance sheet of the European Central Bank, would melt as inflation becomes felt, whether the rate of inflation is 1%, 2% or whatever you want. This meltdown of debt, stored in the refrigerator of the European Central Bank, is the only peaceful, reasonable, controlled and organizable solution that can be adopted by an economic zone as powerful as the European Union. Our States have been methodically impoverished by the policy recommended by the European institutions. Since 2004, France has lost 240 billion euros of tax revenue, because of the gifts offered to "encourage energies", and what I know again, to take up the neoliberal vocabulary that we have enjoyed for more than a decade. France's accumulated debt does not have excessive expenditure, that is not true. Since 2004, the French population has increased by 5 million people, while the public services for it have been constantly reduced: one school a day, one post office a day, one maternity a month, and so on, all of the public services destroyed. The cumulative debt shows the snowball effect of the bad decisions of the past, in particular the support for Germany's decision to offer 1 deutschemark from the West in exchange for 1 deutschemark from the East, thus creating a danger of inflation that has led all European countries to raise their interest rates! This, according to our own institutes, has cost France up to EUR 400 billion, and we are still paying for this difference, which is not due to any economic backwardness on our part, but to the always unilateral nature of the decisions taken by Germany without taking account of its neighbours. Other countries have understood that if, at the same time, all advanced economies enter the international market for new loans, then interest rates will rise. This is why the Bank of England decided to lend directly to the British government. That is why the federal government of the United States of America ordered the Federal Reserve, yet independent, to redeem, incredible thing, the entire public debt and private debts of the country, thus abolishing, in the paradise of capitalism, the only rule that justified it: risk! There is no more capitalist risk in the United States since the Federal Reserve has bought everything back, doubling its balance sheet without shame, the Americans having understood that the money borrowed from the financial markets will be extremely expensive! The situation is now as follows: 45% of the balance sheet, i.e. stocks, of the European Central Bank consists of securities of the Member States of the European Union; As far as France is concerned, 18% of our debt has been purchased by the European Central Bank from private banks. The treaties as they are – we see why they need to be changed – prohibit us, since the Germans do not want to hear anything, from demanding the direct financing of the states by the European Central Bank at zero or negative rates. However, we have the possibility, as a shareholder of the European Central Bank, to demand that the share of French debt in its balance sheet, 18% of its total stock, be transformed into a perpetual debt – this is the term used to designate this kind of debt – without interest. Let us say only without interest – I do not go so far as to suggest negative interests, which is the case today for the rent of the European Central Bank. This 18% of French debt, which could be instantly withdrawn from the total, represents all the new expenses you have incurred to overcome the risk of recession, I say all of them! [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon coughs]] [[Laughs]] And if we were to extend to all the public debts of the euro area this transformation into perpetual debt, France, while respecting the Maastricht criteria – at this moment, I do not exempt us from it, you see – would even regain a borrowing capacity of 1380 billion euros, which could be allocated to expenditure of general interest – because who could do it better than the State and the Republic? – including public investment to cope with the conversion that will have to be imagined and implemented of the economy and exchanges in our society if we do not want to reproduce the productivist delirium that seems to animate the European strategists again! Don't worry, it's that I speak too loud, and only that; You know that the microbes dread me even more than you... So that's the solution. It is not acceptable, I say without looking for excessive polemics, that you had the idea of proposing Eurobonds without expecting that they would be refused to you, whereas these represent nothing but an additional increase in debt. Moreover, we would lose control of it because others would be jointly and severally responsible with us. No, it's not a good solution. The debt wall must be lowered, and you cannot tell the French that it is by reimbursing it that they will end it. Europe has gone back. The European Union is a machine consisting essentially of putting the French, Italians and Spanish, second, third and fourth European economies, respectively, to the benefit of the competing economies of Germany and the Netherlands, which, in the present circumstances, have shown no solidarity with us, whereas we kindly aligned ourselves with them when they took the absurd decision to convert their Eastern Marks into Western Marks! We were told that this would trigger terrible inflation – but it would not only be terrible because it would allow the perpetual debt to melt down. Note that even when the European Central Bank injected 85 billion euros per month into private banks in almost two years without any conditions, a total equivalent to the production of France's total wealth, it was barely more than 1 point of inflation in the euro area. This means that the totality of this sum has gone into the financial sphere without any trace in the real economy. If you put an end to the 1380 billion euros we would find with this measure, plus the 750 billion that you could withdraw from life insurance by depriving the sums placed abroad – i.e. 1 euro in 2 of the outstanding amounts – of the tax advantage granted in France, plus the 400 billion that are in the caisses du Livret A, it turns out that France is not the back of the wall! On the contrary, it has sufficient savings and resources to cope, with all the necessary force, with the massive redeployment of its economy and the conversion of its means of production and exchange. It is not true that we have to choose between debt, the endless suffering of repayment, or the collapse of climate change because we would start producing everything and anything like madmen! That is what I wanted to say to the national representative, to my colleagues, if only to convey to them this conviction that France can and must cease to accept the rules of close accounting imposed by the German government on all the rest of Europe and imposed by the neoliberals, believing that the market is the only solution to allow human activity to deploy in order to face the health catastrophe and its consequences which are only coming! [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] As the Minister of Economy and Finance said, the expected decline in production is unprecedented, as is the social crisis that will come from the United States and the disruption of the world economy through the globalization that has developed over the last thirty years! Since it is unprecedented, let us therefore resort to unprecedented, but peaceful, methodical and orderly means, which will save us the chaos, which led to the previous world war, of an excessive and unpayable debt, which would weigh on our shoulders more than on any other people!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u14	The Chairman of the Committee on Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u15	Your position is obviously very well argued, Mr Mélenchon, but I have my own opinion on how to get out of the crisis, without any certainty; We will discuss it in depth when the time comes. The priority remains economic recovery. Without economic recovery, we will be so dead that we will find it very difficult to address the issues that you are talking about. During and after the support for the economy to which this text contributes, the essential step is to prepare carefully for the recovery. That was the meaning of my previous intervention. As for debt, it is not a purely poetic notion. It exists, there are lenders, markets, a great interlinkage between the actors. This operation can be constantly called into question, but the French debt, like that of most countries, is already almost eternal. Who pays the debts? No one. They're refinanced, it's a little different. Debt is so huge that it prevents society as a whole from progressing, for a simple reason: behind it, there is the stake of trust. But the economy is first of all a matter of trust: we accept or refuse to lend money, to sell, to buy. Debt growth, when it reaches a point that is not scientifically determined, has the effect of breaking that confidence; any debt break creates a breach of trust that can be very negative. Invent something else, I'm not against, we can try, we don't have to go back exactly as before. I am a fervent supporter of globalization, provided it is experienced differently. The health crisis, the ecological crisis and even the development of digital technology call for global responses – there can be no French response – in the context of a globalization that is probably more mature, different, one can hope for. These discussions will take place at the end of the crisis and it is good to prepare them, but I would first like the Government to answer the fundamental questions on the conditions for recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u16	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u17	I wanted to answer the two key questions raised by the Chairman of the Finance Committee and Jean-Luc Mélenchon about the European Union. Resumption of activity is our objective: the economy cannot stand still, we need to return to activity and to return to work, for economic but also social and human reasons. Millions of French people are waiting to be able to return to work under conditions of total health security. We are a people who work, who love work, and who find their dignity in work.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u18	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u19	We cannot deprive millions of French people of their activity. It can be a restorer who does not welcome anyone in his restaurant, an employee who wants to return to his business, a worker who wants to return to his factory and production chain: millions of French people are waiting to return to work. How are we going to ensure a return to work in conditions of total health security? First of all, we will gather the experiences of all the activities that have maintained their production, which I salute: the large distribution, the caisse agents, the castters, the carriers, the farmers, the workers of the agri-food industry, all those who have guaranteed our security of supply on a daily basis. These sectors quickly equipped themselves, adopted different procedures and introduced specific barriers, workplaces per workstation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u21	We will see what lessons we can learn from it. Then we will define, sector by sector, the guides of good practice – a number of them have already been presented by Muriel Pénicaud. In the coming days, we will have to have all the good practice guides for each sector and sector. And then it will be necessary – again, Muriel Pénicaud is working with the social partners – to establish a national protocol setting out basic good practices to ensure return to work and health safety. On this basis, from 11 May onwards, we will determine, among the activities prohibited in times of pandemics, which can resume. [[Laughs and comments]] Many sectors wish to resume their activities after 11 May, but this requires guarantees of health safety. Let us take the example of hairdressers: we will soon find the Gaul hair if the hairdressers do not resume their activity as soon as possible; I love Gaul hair, but I also like hairdressers and I think it would be good to reopen the hair salons! However, the conditions must be met in order to protect the hairdressers themselves: the number of customers who can be accommodated per square metre should be estimated, under what conditions and with what equipment. That is what we are working on with Muriel Pénicaud: we had a first meeting yesterday and we will have every day to come, at the request of the Prime Minister, so that the rules are clear, simple and identical for all. There are, moreover, the sectors – the President of the Republic has indicated how important they are for all of us – of catering, hospitality, events and tourism. I share the deep concern, not to say despair, of all those restaurateurs who are burning to reopen their establishment and who are seeing their losses build up.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u22	Yes, that's a real question!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u23	A specific scheme will be devoted to this sector. With Gérald Darmanin, Muriel Pénicaud and Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, we will have a first working meeting this afternoon, after which we will ask all the professional representatives of the sector to work on a resumption of activity that I wish to do as quickly as possible. I think I can speak on behalf of all of you to express my sympathy and support for the catering, event, hospitality, bars, everything that makes our daily life. They will not be able to resume their activity immediately under normal conditions, but the sooner the better. The restaurateurs of France will need specific support arrangements; we will establish them at the time of their resumption. With regard to the European question, Mr Mélenchon spoke of a hijacking; I'd talk more of a burst. If there is one point on which I agree with you, Mr Mélenchon, it is the fact that the political meaning of European integration and the euro area is at stake. If European political construction does not regain its fundamental meaning, that of shared solidarity between nation states, and if the euro area is not able to reduce the economic differences between its nineteen Member States, it will disappear from the 21st century and give way to the United States and China. As far as the euro area is concerned, I repeat, it will not stand up to the growing divergence in economic development between its Member States. It is impossible, untenable, to have a common currency and Member States that develop differently, with some that gain competitiveness, export and are powerful, and others that lose productivity, competitiveness and wealth year after year. France's role is to recall that in the 21st century, the indispensable continent is the European continent. Indeed, between China's political development model and the United States' economic development model, there is room for a reasonable development model that respects human values: this model is called Europe. That is why, in addition to the $540 billion emergency plan already adopted, it is essential that the ECB continue the work it has initiated in supporting the financing of the debt of the States and it is equally essential that we soon agree on the recovery fund proposed by France. I call on all our European partners to look carefully at the French proposal: this recovery fund consists of raising common debt for the future; It is not a question of creating eurobonds pooling past and future debt, but of raising debt together by mutualising our interest rate so that it is as low as possible, in order to finance future debt and investments – not operating expenses – for a short time, not ad vitam aeternam. This seems to us to be the best economic solution and the best political solution, because it will enable investment to be financed in all the countries of the euro area, to avoid deeper economic divides and to restart at the same pace, with the same vigour, in order to return to the path of sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u24	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u25	Jean-Luc Mélenchon, with his motion of rejection, opened the debate on debt and preceded our discussions this afternoon. This is the subject which is also of the greatest concern to the Communist Group and which we wish to put at the heart of the debate, because this new PLFR once again takes note of the choice of debt in order to respond to the economic and social emergency. You are in total contradiction with all the speeches you have previously given on this subject because, a few months ago, it was not possible to meet the needs of our hospitals, our EHPADs – the housing establishments for dependent elderly people –, our pensioners, or to embark on the ecological transition by increasing the debt or our deficits; There was no magic money, it was not necessary to increase the debt. Now we're here! Debt is increasing and will certainly increase beyond the 115% of GDP announced, and you have found the money to respond to the urgency we are facing. Yes, when there is an emergency, when there are needs, we have to be able to build up resources by debt, and the European Central Bank should have, could, should be there to lend directly to the zero-rate states and then freeze the debt contracted. Otherwise, as Mr Woerth has said, in the coming years we will have to refinance this debt with the financial markets and banks. You know things are going this way. So you will tell us here that it is not possible to finance, to invest, because we have a debt that is too high. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] We must call into question the European treaties, which have been rendered obsolete and put to death after they have been infected with this virus. Yes, we must confine the European treaties. That is why we will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u26	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u27	We do not reject, Mr President Mélenchon, all the questions you are asking: they are legitimate and it is not in the National Assembly, the place of debate, that we should sweep them away. Nevertheless, the LaREM Group has your motion of rejection. We listened to the French and many black holes – President Woerth recalled it – went up from our ridings. We have listened to families who need emergency assistance to support themselves. We have also listened to the public service, which is responding to the crisis. So we want to have this discussion and go fast.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u28	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u29	The Republican Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. We believe, as Éric Woerth has said and as Véronique Louwagie will develop, that some of the measures in the emergency plan in the face of the health crisis need to be strengthened and that the second law of amending finance contains substantial improvements: the plan is not only reloaded, it is also completed, on two important points. Firstly, as Bénédicte Peyrol has just said, it is planned to provide nearly EUR 1 billion in support to the most vulnerable households, and we believe that this support will need to be further strengthened in the coming weeks. Secondly, in the case of enterprises, in addition to State-guaranteed loans and the solidarity fund, a very important new scheme is being created, which gives the State the opportunity to intervene in the capital of so-called "vulnerable" enterprises in the form of equity funds. We will have a debate on this because national representation must be informed. As far as the debt is concerned, I do not share Mr Mélenchon's pessimism. On the contrary, I believe that, in the context of economic recovery, we can count on the euro and the European Central Bank. If countries such as Spain, Italy or France manage to finance themselves at rates that remain very low, that is why we must not forget it. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] On the other hand – here I agree with Mr Mélenchon – a problem of consolidation will arise in a second stage. I would like to welcome Minister Bruno Le Maire's action in this area and invite him to elaborate on this: how does he see consolidation in the coming months and years?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u30	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u31	The MODEM Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. However, we are happy to agree with two of the points raised by President Mélenchon. Firstly, we need more European solidarity. It is at European level that part of the solution, at least economic, to this crisis is being played out. In this regard, we welcome the initiatives taken by the President of the Republic and the Minister Le Maire to try to obtain from certain Member States that solidarity can function fully in this moment of crisis. Secondly, yes, debt tends to stifle economic forces. We have been thinking that for a long time, and that is why funding solutions will have to be found. We will be able to have this debate, but it does not fall within the scope of the amending finance bill, which, as previous speakers have pointed out, seeks to introduce emergency measures to enable companies to survive and to support the purchasing power of employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u32	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u33	The SOC Group will not vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand. I hear a number of arguments raised by President Mélenchon, but I do not think it is right to accuse Europe of being responsible for our own weaknesses and turpitudes. The European Central Bank's balance sheet amounts to almost half of the European Union's GDP, that is to say, all the wealth we produce annually. If this were not the case, France would be unable to borrow as it does, as would Spain and Italy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u35	This solidarity – it is your right not to consider it, Mr.President Mélenchon – may be invisible, but it exists. If the European Central Bank did not exist, many of the European economies would be bankrupt, bankrupt, as were Argentina and other countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u36	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u37	That's the worst answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u38	It turns out that, since the creation of the European Union, none of the European economies has failed. This is not the case for other countries in the world, which have experienced economic situations, in terms of indicators, close to what might have existed in Europe. Of course, the lack of solidarity is sometimes regrettable. On this point, I agree with you, but to say that there would be no such thing at all and that Europe would not be an extremely important actor seems to me to be wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u39	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u40	[[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] It is for this reason that we will not vote in favour of this motion of rejection: although on other points we can support it, on this one we disagree.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u41	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u42	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u43	President Mélenchon spoke of two things: the past, on the one hand, and whatever we do, we will not be able to change it; On the other hand, which will, for the time being, require a real discussion after the events that we are experiencing. But we need to talk about the present. What is he? It is all these employees and all these companies who are in part unemployed and cannot live with a more than reduced activity. These are the restaurateurs and hoteliers for whom we need to find a quick solution to cancel charges. By listening to the explanation of the Minister of Economy and Finance, who spoke of the possibility for hairdressers to resume their activities on 11 May, while respecting safety distances, I thought that the same could be done for the restaurateurs. What's easier, in a restaurant, than to install customers with two remote tables to ensure the observation of barrier gestures? The construction companies are also concerned because the lack of equipment hinders them from working. Fragile households also need help. These are all the subjects we need to study now; All of these people need us to provide them with effective solutions. The UDI-Agir Group will therefore vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u44	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u45	The Liberté et Territoires Group will vote against the motion because it would be to stop the support given to our fellow citizens and businesses, and thus to aggravate the crisis. You are certainly asking a relevant question, Mr Mélenchon, that of credit financing of measures: what will become of the public debt, thus massively increased? But your idea of a perpetual debt at a negative rate is that of a prestidigitator! In your criticism of the European Union, you forget that it is thanks to monetary union, the euro area, that Italy, Spain and even France are in debt at low interest rates. If each had a national currency, as was the case before the creation of the euro, the differentials would be considerable. Moreover, if the European Central Bank does not lend directly to the states, the treaties have been circumvented since it buys the debt on the so-called "grey" or "secondary" market: as you pointed out, almost 20% of the French public debt is borne by the Central Bank, which therefore helps France well. The third reason we will vote against is very simple. Let's go back to Adam Smith: what is the origin of the wealth of nations? It's work! First, we must therefore take all measures to encourage the general resumption of work in our country. This requires company agreements between the social partners to define the modalities of recovery under conditions of health security. All over my department, discussions take place with staff representatives. Secondly, this must be done with European coordination: we will not save ourselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u46	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u47	"Get off the beaten track [...], reinvent us": these were the words of the President at his last address to the French. We must admit that we will be far from it if we are to obey the logics, dogmas and mechanisms of Europe as they prefigure themselves. The competition of all against all and austerity in the name of debt, we know, Monsieur de Courson; the effects on the hospital and all other public services, and the consequences are now being measured in the fight against the epidemic. We cannot place economic functioning above the human, which it must serve. All the efforts of the Government, which were unprecedented, were subject to respect for those dogmas. That is why it is important to address the issue now, in connection with the measures you propose and with the stimulus you are outlining. The motion of rejection is intended to alert. To reject the report which we requested yesterday therefore leads us to question ourselves: we cannot, under these conditions, speak differently of the possible measures or provoke a green revival as you wish; We cannot lead the recovery without getting out of the dogmas of today's Europe and breaking with the ECB's policy, which has not contributed to the recovery and well-being of the countries, I insist, but rather to putting them on their knees, in particular Greece.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u48	Mr Fabien Roussel spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u49	No one can imagine in what state we will emerge from this crisis. But we'll get out of it. Our political choices, made during and after the crisis, will determine how. I would like to pay a new tribute to all those who hold France at arm's length, who care, feed, secure and organize the life of the country. They are the first of the ropes of which we are so proud. This crisis also reveals the fragility of a France that has been subject to liberalism for too long. Our public services, our sovereignty suffer, just like the planet. Our country needs a new economic, social and ecological model: it's getting ready now! We need much stronger, more numerous public services; We also need to relocate our industry, not to produce as before, to work as before and to enrich shareholders, but to protect human beings like our planet, and to have a country prepared to deal with such disasters. We have to change our society in depth! This amending finance bill should already take this path and show, from now on, that nothing will be the same as before. But it is not the choice that is made. The country's debt will rise to 120 per cent of GDP, we have just mentioned. You want to finance everything with the debt and not ask the richest. Rates are low; But then who will pay? It could still be us, as proposed by the MEDEF, who already says that we will have to work more! But that was the world before. Everyone is now calling for change: it starts right away! That is why we reiterate our call for the European Central Bank to bear the debt of France as well as that of all the countries of the European Union, and for it to be cancelled in the long run. The cost of the pandemic must not be borne by the people. We also call for the effort to be national and shared by all. With your prescriptions, you impose days of leave, RTTs and 60-hour weeks on workers. You make the job pay, as before; we, we want to involve capital. In this budget, you open a new €20 billion programme aimed at increasing the state's participation in the capital of large French companies. Okay, but what for? Is it just a question of socializing losses and continuing as before, without imposing any requirement? Vallourec, for example, could benefit from new state aid while continuing its relocations and investing in oil instead of diversifying in France. We ask you to prepare the next world by being demanding towards such groups. Let us ask them to relocate their activities to France or to engage in the ecological transition. Let's give Parliament and employees greater control: pay without knowing what our money is for, that's enough. Finally, the text contains aid for the poorest. Yes, containment costs a lot when you have to feed your children at every meal and especially when prices rise.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u50	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u51	The loss of 16 per cent of wages for millions of employees placed in part-time unemployment also causes many families of workers, of employees, to slip into poverty. In addition, the number of people registered with the Employment Centre has increased by 42000 since the beginning of confinement. The number of people living in poverty in our country is increasing sharply: after hearing aid associations for people in difficulty, we estimate that they are now 11 million, or even 12 million, students, employees, temporary workers, pensioners; You have to help them, and quickly, to eat and pay their rent. As part of the review of the PLFR, we make a number of proposals to this effect, including the introduction of aid of EUR 300 per month, subject to resource conditions, and a reduction in VAT on basic necessities. You propose to companies to pay premiums and, for civil servants, you propose a premium of 1500, 1000 or 500 euros, depending on the degree of exposure to the virus of each category of employees: you risk dividing the French. You know that all the professions involved, both in the public and in the private sector, demand wage increases. Give them that perspective! [[Ms Elsa Faucillon and Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon applaud]] If we release EUR 110 billion, let's not just be urgent. Let's prepare the next world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u52	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u53	We are living collectively a unique moment, a crisis that plunged us all into the unknown several weeks ago. Indeed, in order to protect the French, especially the most fragile of them, the President of the Republic took the only measure worth taking: to put our social life on pause and a large part of the economy under bell. This is the first time that our country has faced such a crisis, and it is up to us to absorb its effects as much as possible. This unique moment calls for humility, cohesion and determination on our part. As soon as we read the opening article of this second amending finance bill, we understand that we do not yet know all the effects of the crisis, but that the Government is prepared to do everything in its power to protect businesses, jobs and the French. In front of the unknown, we must all show humility because, if the next seems to be looming, the path is still long. This second PLFR also encourages coherence by strengthening the tools created a month ago – partial activity, state-guaranteed lending, solidarity funds for businesses – and by adopting credits to support the most fragile families. After an initial allocation of €45 billion, the Government is asking us to mobilize $110 billion this time. We have all listened to the economic actors in our territories, we have all heard the testimonies of business leaders who do not enter the boxes of the solidarity fund, because they are retired or they founded their business in February, and therefore cannot postpone their rent or their invoices. My colleagues Anne-Laure Cattelot, Olivia Gregoire, Mickaël Nogal and so many others have found, with the support of the ministerial teams, solutions so that these companies are still there when the activity resumes. We also welcome the regions and all those who have responded to the call and will abound the solidarity fund for businesses, in order to increase the additional aid from 2000 to 5000 euros. In addition, we have all heard these bosses who, in view of the amount of their operating loss, no longer include their banker or insurer. I would like to commend the Government's tenacity in the face of insurance companies and its demand for banks: it is so much harder to reach a good agreement than to propose a bad tax... Again, there is room for progress. My colleagues Nadia Hai, Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas and Valéria Faure-Muntian are a force for proposals on this subject, and the LaREM Group will defend their projects here, in particular with regard to transparency. We must be determined not to relive what had weakened our businesses so much a few years ago: the loss of skills. We have therefore chosen to support all the structures, companies, associations and others, by allowing them to keep their employees thanks to the partial activity: more than 9 million employees, belonging to more than 700000 companies, keep their jobs, because we are doing everything possible to ensure that their company is preserved when the activity resumes. The 24 billion euros we choose to invest in the men and women who make the strength of our businesses, big and small, we know them more than useful: they are necessary because they are the best investment for the future. Finally, we must show cohesion in thanking and recognizing the unwavering commitment of public servants, present in the first and second lines to make public services work: without them the sick would not be treated, the masks would not reach us, our children would be destitute, the most fragile would not be helped; Without them, all business support schemes would be just words on paper. The exceptional premium they will receive is therefore good news which must encourage all employers, in a spirit of national cohesion, to recognize the value of the commitment of their employees in this troubled period. In conclusion, this text is commensurate with the shock we are experiencing: unique. It is the responsibility of all to ensure that its tools are deployed as widely as possible. This is the joint mission of the Government and parliamentarians. Let us not forget Albert Einstein's lesson, which disappeared almost sixty-five years ago to the day: "Life is like a bicycle. We need to move forward in order not to lose balance. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u54	It is also true for the revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u55	In terms of public finance and business support, the same is true. Then let us move forward together, humble and determined.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u56	[[At 10:30 a.m., Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Mr. Richard Ferrand in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u57	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u58	The Coronavirus epidemic has plunged us into an unprecedented health crisis as well as an unprecedented economic crisis. As we now know, the year 2020 will be marked by a very severe recession. This is an unprecedented economic upheaval, as the activity is at a standstill and as long and uncertain as the restart will be. All economic sectors, all activities, all enterprises are severely affected. Some sectors pay an even greater price than others: I am thinking of shops, restaurants, cafes, hotels, events and so many others. Less than a month ago, the Government proposed a first amending finance bill for 2020, which we unanimously passed. Unfortunately, the economic situation and the persistence of this crisis show that the first PLFR forecasts of 19 March were too optimistic, which requires the urgent release of much more substantial new aid. [[Ms. Cendra Motin applauds]] The Government had therefore revised its contingency plan to provide it with €110 billion, compared with the initial $45 billion planned. I welcome this undeniable effort and the new economic and social measures of the second PLFR. Helping the most vulnerable households is important or essential in this context. By adapting and taking into account the pitfalls observed so far, the Government is relaxing the arrangements put in place for our businesses and creating a component for the poorest. This is an unprecedented budgetary effort. That is why Members of the Republican Group will vote in favour. However, much more needs to be done, as the PLFR does not meet the enormous needs of all companies in great difficulty. In a spirit of responsibility, we put on the table concrete proposals to further support our economic fabric, especially the cafes, shops, restaurants and hotels, which are heavily affected. We propose, for example, a simple cancellation of social and tax charges for the SMEs most affected by the crisis, as well as an exemption from audiovisual fees for cafes, restaurants and hotels. These cancellations of charges would constitute massive support. We must send a strong signal to our entrepreneurs who are waiting in the start-blocks to resume their activity. We also want to increase the amount of the solidarity fund by 2 billion, which would increase the aid paid and the number of beneficiaries, in order to fill, as the chairman of the Finance Committee said, "holes in the racket". The conditions for eligibility for the Solidarity Fund must be less stringent. Strong support for particularly affected sectors must be adopted. We also want to allow the many communities that wish to do so to exempt businesses and businesses from the taxes they collect, in particular from CFE – business property assessment – and property tax. We also call for the recognition of a state of health disaster to facilitate the management of some of the farm losses of the smallest companies. We call for a complete defiscalization of all overtime worked during confinement. While secured loans are essential, we believe it is important for the State to bear the interest on these loans. Finally, we want to introduce a reduced VAT rate on hydro-alcoholic masks and gels, which have become essential products. This replacement rate of 20 per cent, which currently applies, would be an aid to all our citizens. Yesterday, in the Committee on Finance, none of our proposals were accepted. We hope that this will be different today and that our amendments will find a favourable response. The debate will also have to provide answers to the many questions that remain open, such as the co-workers' spouses, social agents and certain conditions for the allocation of the aid promised under the Solidarity Fund. These questions are essential because we must not forget anyone. If the PLFR cannot be the only response to the crisis, it is because the best way to reduce the effects of the crisis is to allow activity to start again, by controlling the health crisis. The current situation and the organisation of the decoupling will have to be read very clearly from 11 May onwards. How, for example, will construction companies be able to resume their activities if masks are missing? To restore confidence to entrepreneurs, they need to be given visibility. Finally, real-time monitoring of the measures voted on is essential. We will therefore attach great importance to the necessary field application of the selected devices, as it would be of no use to adopt them in an urgent manner unless their application is subsequently operational. Our mission to monitor implementation is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u60	I'm finishing, Mr. President. We will therefore take our full part in this mission to ensure that the implementation of the arrangements is simple, operational and pragmatic. It is imperative that the Government provide parliamentarians with daily dashboards to monitor the various mechanisms by department, by business stratum and by sector of activity. I insist: only real-time tools will allow us to make the necessary adjustments, corrections and adaptations quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Louwagie.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u62	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Together, we must win this battle against the Covid-l9. That is why we assure you of the support of Members of the Republican Group. We will vote for this PLFR even if we want, even if we have to go much further to save our businesses and prepare for economic deconfinity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u63	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u64	Here we are gathered for the second time in a month to discuss and adopt exceptional financing measures to respond to the economic disaster triggered by the health disaster of the Covid-19 Coronavirus epidemic. Together with my colleagues in the MODEM Group, I welcome the mobilization of the Government, the State and its deconcentrated services to preserve France's entrepreneurial heritage. I would also like to thank you for being able to change the arrangements that we adopted a month ago to meet the needs of our companies. If we had been told that in a month the shield of partial unemployment would protect half of France's employees, no one would have believed it. A company that disappears is a fabric of relationships, a know-how, a culture, a community lost forever. A business that closes is the life, the soul of a village that is extinguished. By adopting this text, we extend the coverage of partial unemployment to the largest number of employees: they now benefit more than 9 million. Thus, when the time for recovery comes, our greatest wealth, our human capital, will have been preserved. By adopting this text, we are expanding the scope of the State guarantee plan, which has allowed eight times more financing to companies in one month than the 2008 guarantee plan had done in two years. Companies in difficulty will now also be able to benefit from it. By adopting this text, we provide €7 billion for the support of small businesses, self-employed people and the liberal professions. As early as April, the compensation to which they are entitled will cover their rent expenses. That ministers be thanked for opening this compensation to new audiences. Let the regions and insurance companies also be thanked for their affluence with this fund. I also welcome the network of chambers of commerce and trades, the social partners who are mobilising alongside state services to answer all questions and concerns. We will continue to ensure that these munitions can be mobilized by all companies, associations, independents in all the territories of the Republic, to verify that the State services and banking institutions are in a position to respond to their demands. Further adjustments are likely to be required before and after May 11. We will pay attention to this, because if companies feel supported, they also worry about the accumulation of social, tax, banking and real estate debts on their heads. If our entrepreneurs feel that they are over-indebted, they are likely to give up, at the very moment when their contribution to the war effort is the most decisive. That is why we will propose to you an amendment aimed at facilitating the abandonment of debts, i.e. the write-off of debts, a clear advantage for the very small companies that will desist and tackle recovery under better conditions, which is no less negligible for public finances: if a lessor renounces the collection of a merchant's rents, the State's compensation under the solidarity fund will diminish accordingly. But the most important measure of the text, enshrined in Article 5, is undoubtedly the fulfilment of the announcement made to the French by the President of the Republic to exempt the exceptional premium paid to public officials mobilized in the context of the state of emergency. It is the tribute of France confined to heroes who fight for it: doctors, nurses, aide-instants, paramedics, stretchers, pharmacists. It is an expression of gratitude to the teams of caregivers who have faced extreme conditions, to all public servants who ensure the continuity of public services. I am thinking in particular of the agents of the National Assembly, who allow our democratic life to continue, and, beyond that, of all the workers in the second and third lines, without which the economic and social continuity of the nation would be seriously compromised, to all those maquisard citizens who, throughout the country, have risen to create networks of solidarity and supply on their scale, and to help those who fight the invisible enemy. To get out of the rut, we will need Europe. We fully support the initiatives of the President of the Republic and the Government to make it more united, fraternal and sovereign. It is time to show that union is the strength and that our destiny is connected. It is time to pool funding for this new health war and to plan together the recovery effort to be provided, when the time comes. "There is no future for the peoples of Europe other than in union. » [[Applause on the benches of the MODEM and LaREM groups]] In conclusion, the members of the MODEM Group welcome the architecture of the text and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u65	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u66	Exactly a month ago, we were in this Chamber to discuss the first amending finance bill related to the urgency of the crisis. The Government has decided to propose a second text, which has a budgetary component, which we were asking for a month ago, because the situation is serious. Three days ago, the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – published an attempt to forecast economic growth, a particularly difficult exercise in the current context, according to which world output would fall by 3% in 2020 and rebound by 5.8% in 2021, thus regaining its pre-crisis level. In Europe, on the other hand, production would fall by 7.5% in 2020 and only rebound by 4.7% in 2021: under this scenario, even by the end of 2021, we would not have recovered the pre-crisis level of production. For all of us in this House, as for many of our fellow citizens, the situation is unprecedented. This is why contingency plans must do everything possible to limit the setback envisaged by the IMF. It will then be time, and we will take part in this exercise, to rethink our economic model. Some time ago, we had already made several recommendations which unfortunately were not followed up. To limit this decline is to ensure that economic actors hold on and, to do so, they must be able to cope with the cash shock. The EUR 300 billion guarantee will help in part. But to limit this decline is also to amortise payments due by economic actors on lost turnover, i.e. on sums that they will never cash. We called on the Government a month ago to ask for the cancellation of some of the carry-overs of contributions, because economic actors cannot be asked to make payments on a turnover they will never receive. I agree that this amending finance bill is a first step; However, we want more details, and we have tabled an amendment proposing to go further. Beyond the economic aspects, which are obviously crucial, we must be able to continue to live. We stressed this point a month ago by stressing that an emergency budget could not simply provide guarantees and grant postponements of fiscal and social deadlines. On this point, you have heard us in part, since PLFR 2 provides for €105 billion in budgetary measures. Yet, again, we must look at the figures precisely. Of this amount, $42.6 billion is due to lower tax revenues; As a result, the amount of fresh money you release amounts to 62.5 billion euros, which is not exactly 100 billion. These EUR 62.5 billion are broken down into third parties: EUR 20 billion are destined for possible nationalisations; EUR 24 billion in partial unemployment; EUR 18.5 billion for direct support. The justification for the EUR 24 billion for partial unemployment is perfectly clear; On the other hand, there is no indication as to whether 20 billion can be credited for possible nationalisations: nothing. Should the National Assembly vote on a sum of 20 billion euros without any explanation? Either you have specific projects, in which case it would be good to inform us, or it is only a display measure, which, given the seriousness of the situation, would not be acceptable. Members of my group have tabled a bill to nationalize two companies – you said "no" but I hope you will change your mind – which would cost one thousandth of the €20 billion fund you are planning. These credits refer to the issue of the shareholder State. Ministers, it is important that, as representatives of the latter in many large companies, you ensure that they pay for the firm orders they have placed. They cannot clear them and carry the burden on the cash flow of their subcontractors. In addition, the food and social emergency accounts for less than 2% of the total of €105 billion in PLFR 2 budgetary measures. Our group has therefore proposed several amendments, in particular in favour of students and apprentice fellows, as well as of all families who are unable to feed themselves under the present circumstances. The President of the Republic cannot call for national unity, while the Government is undermining it by systematically refusing all opposition initiatives – before, in many cases, taking ownership of them to implement them three weeks late. Yesterday in committee, your majority rejected all the opposition's amendments. All of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u68	The national union cannot be decreed: an effort must be made by the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u69	Thank you for closing, Madam President Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u70	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] I will stop there and continue my remarks when it comes to defending the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u71	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u72	Our country, like the rest of the world, is shaken by a major health crisis, linked to the spread of the Covid-19 virus. In this exceptional context, where there are many unknowns, measuring the consequences of the pandemic, which is devastating not only for man but also for our economy, is an achievement. However, the first studies carried out by INSEE, the Institut national de la statistique et des études économiques, and OFCE, the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques, agree that a month of containment generates a loss of about 3 points of GDP, and we know that confinement will last at least two months. I know that the Government has taken full advantage of the dramatic economic situation in which we find ourselves. The first PLFR was the translation: it aimed to provide an immediate response to the cash flow problems of our companies and to the need to protect employees. Of course, this did not go without questioning or oblivion or even perverse effects. It was our duty to question you on these points. As a result of the extension of containment and the various restrictive measures, the situation of all our companies has deteriorated considerably. I am thinking in particular of the construction and public works, tourism, culture, traders, artisans and self-employed, not to mention, of course, the hotels, catering and wholesale sectors, specialized in out-of-home catering, which are in great pain. An evolving crisis, an evolving response. The Government, through this second PLFR, proposes to increase the economic emergency plan from 45 billion to 110 billion. For example, the budget allocated to cover partial unemployment is increased to EUR 24 billion, and the funds allocated to the solidarity fund for the TPEs now amount to EUR 7 billion. This PLFR also provides for the deployment of an exceptional facility to support loans and own funds for strategic companies weakened by the crisis, amounting to EUR 20 billion. Many specific measures which have proved necessary accompany employees, particularly in the health sector, but also people in precarious situations. Finally, you have heard from the members of this assembly in particular, by extending the guarantee and access mechanisms to the measures of the emergency plan. My colleague Christophe Naegelen had tried to warn you about the exclusion of companies placed in collective proceedings from the State-guaranteed loan scheme. You are proposing to put an end to it in this PLFR, which I welcome. All these measures are aimed at safeguarding the productive apparatus. In this regard, the State plays its full protective role. It may be necessary to go further by cancelling tax and social charges. But the strength of the Government's plan will only keep its promises if it is accompanied by a genuine European battle plan, because it is the whole of Europe that is contaminated. As we know, this first aid will not be sufficient. So this is another fight you will have to fight with our European partners, to consolidate Europe. The scenario adopted by the Government is based on a rather rapid return to normal, with a rebounding consumption in the second half of the year. We express concern about this hypothesis because history has shown us that the first reflex of households and businesses is to create a precautionary savings, which are not conducive to consumer support. This already raises the question of the recovery and investment plan that will have to be put in place to avoid these pitfalls. We hope that our discussions today will allow us to draw the contours. Finally, as pointed out by the High Council for Public Finance, this PLFR does not reprogram the revenue and expenditure of public administrations. As we know, beyond the impact on GDP, the crisis will have a very negative impact on all local authorities, who have demonstrated their essential role in these circumstances. Connected to their territory, they have demonstrated reactivity and agility; They have launched local initiatives to overcome the difficulties encountered on the ground. In order for their battle plans to continue, it will be necessary to ensure that they are promptly provided with the technical, legal, administrative and financial instruments to enable them to best accompany the resumption in their territory. As we see it, what remains at the heart of this crisis and will persist is the need for solidarity. Reducing social and wage inequalities is as important a challenge as the massive revival of our economy. Let us also learn from this crisis by rethinking our economy and relocating activities deemed vital. [[Mr. Christophe Naegelen applauds]] I will conclude my remarks with a quote from Chateaubriand, who wrote: "The moments of crisis produce a repetition of life among men. The UDI-Agir group wants to do so ardently. That is why he will support this amending finance bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u73	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u74	Last November, the President of the Republic made himself involuntary pythia by declaring that the rule of capping the government deficit at 3% of GDP was "a debate of another century". For the past month, the Maastrichtian criteria have been suspended because of the scale of the current health crisis and the unprecedented contraction of our economies. In the face of this situation, the Government has chosen to resort massively to public spending, financed by borrowing, in order to avoid economic and social collapse. The LT group does not dispute this choice. In this amending budget, the Government is providing €42 billion in additional funding to combat the pandemic and its economic and social consequences. At the same time, revenues from the general budget are down by €35 billion. The budgetary balance worsened by €90 billion compared to the original finance law, reaching more than €183 billion; This doubly creates an abyssal hole. Thus, the Government is trying to deal with an extremely difficult situation. He chose several complementary arrangements: a guarantee of loans by the State, an expansion of the partial activity scheme and a solidarity fund for the TPEs. These last two levers are reinforced in this PLFR, amounting respectively to 10.5 billion and 5.5 billion. In addition, eight amendments, not discussed in the Committee on Finance since they have just been tabled, complement the scheme, in particular for families in great difficulty or for certain companies which could not benefit from the schemes mentioned above. Despite progress in recent weeks, holes remain in the racket of these devices. We have referred to the cases of collaborating spouses, self-employed persons, majority managers of SARL – limited liability companies – or some newly created law firms, artisans or companies. Companies also make it easier for us to access government-guaranteed borrowing. Again, the Government is proposing a new mechanism to plug some holes in the snowshoe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u76	Partial activity, on the other hand, helps to avoid business failures and an explosion of unemployment. But why bring to the UNEDIC one third of the burden of partial unemployment, that is 8 billion and soon a little more, out of the 24 billion or 25 billion planned, and ask it to be in debt due to competition by a loan guaranteed by the state to the tune of 10 billion? Why didn't the state directly pay for the entire expenditure? In view of the sums committed to this scheme and the 8.8 million private employees who have used it, or more than 44 per cent of them, we consider it essential to set up control mechanisms to avoid abuses. This draft amending budget also provides for the release of no less than EUR 20 billion to strengthen state participation in certain companies. But why 20 billion? We don't know. Despite my repeated requests, we have received no information on the use of these funds, other than those we read in the press, which is clearly better informed than parliamentarians. That's not acceptable. We ask that the Assembly's Finance Committee, in camera if necessary, be kept informed of the Government's plans and the content of the list of companies that you have sent to the President of the Republic. Let us also talk about the 2.5 billion euros initially recorded as accidental or unpredictable expenditure, whereas this expenditure was neither: once again, the good information of Parliament is lacking. We learned the day before yesterday that this package would finance, in particular, precarious premiums for the most vulnerable, amounting to EUR 880 million. Those who do not work were so far forgotten by the support system. Such accompaniment is therefore welcome. However, I note several weaknesses: its non-renewable nature, its size and its scope. We will therefore propose, in conjunction with the rapporteur-general, that this aid should be sanctified in a dedicated programme and, for our part, that the amount should be raised to EUR 3 billion. We have also learned incidentally that EUR 750 million, or even EUR 1 billion, would be spent on cancellations of social and tax charges, within the framework of sectoral plans for hotels, restaurants and tourism. Here again, we call for the rapid presentation of a real plan to rescue the sectors of activity which have been closed since 15 March and which will remain closed until at least July: hotels, restaurants, tourism, culture, events, etc. We will also defend amendments to that effect. I also alert the Government to the consequences of the current crisis for local and regional authorities. The President of the Republic praised the involvement of local elected officials, mayors and also departmental and regional elected officials. Local authorities will also be affected, particularly financially, by the current crisis. Therefore, they must also be accompanied to the extent of their commitment. I will not talk about the possible recovery plan, except to say that it must be drawn up in good coordination with our European partners and focus on the social dimensions. Our fellow citizens must not return to work with fear in their stomachs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u77	Thank you for closing, Mr. de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u78	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u79	And that's interesting, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u80	This requires treaty agreements, the strengthening of social dialogue and the provision of necessary equipment, including masks. It is at this price that you will reconnect with a largely unscrupulous confidence in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u81	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u82	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u83	The current crisis is primarily environmental. Productivism, deforestation, loss of biodiversity, the announced extinction of species: here are the culprits for the arrival of the Covid-19 virus in humans. If this virus has been able to spread in as great a way, as contagious as it is, it is undoubtedly because of liberal globalization. Without a free trade of such a disproportionate magnitude, it would never have travelled so quickly around the planet and never would its arrival have been so difficult to anticipate by the states. This disaster is also, of course, a health crisis of unprecedented magnitude. It is the direct result of long years of destruction of public services and our health sovereignty, sacrificed on the altar of austerity. If I take the time to recall these three aspects of the crisis, it is because they all have a sad thing in common: they have the fruit of political decisions. I take it that it is our leaders who have created the conditions for the crisis to worsen. I assume to say it, they were wrong to brag at everything going to save money, to close beds in hospitals, to decide to dispense with mask stocks. Everyone now realizes the dangerousness of their dogma, in the first place our heroes, the caregivers who work in the front line. We're promised to reinvent everything, but I'm afraid with the same controls, we've only known an eternal repeat. As we face an unprecedented crisis, we are offered as usual to put simple dressings on a bereaved wound. That is what the bills that are before our house are doing and, in this case, this new PLFR. Our country will not heal in this way. We are told that our rulers have changed course, that they have changed themselves. Perhaps they are trying to do so, but in the face of reality, I do not distinguish their success for the future. On the one hand, I hear flowery and determined words in your speeches. On the other hand, acts remain dull, budgets too timid. So you're announcing $110 billion. I have only 42 billion direct aid. The President of the Republic announced soon the return of happy days. Tomorrow, it's still a long way... We are being presented with a bill that does not even address the issue of wealth sharing – I am thinking in particular of the restoration of wealth tax. On the one hand, we are told about valuing French research and planning. On the other hand, the need for funding for public basic research is not met and the costly research tax credit, which favours only large companies, is maintained. We clear nationalizations and requisitions. However, there is no trace at the moment, while companies as essential as Luxfer, Famar and Péters Surgical are abandoned, in a guilty silence. I hope that this time we will have answers about them. On the one hand, a minister announces that there can be no return to work without optimal safety conditions. On the other hand, we don't have enough resources to protect everyone. However, the debunking you are announcing for May 11 is, in essence, a debunking of the work alone. You will not be able to do so without protection for employees and workers, at the risk of their health and also at the risk of a second epidemic wave. The measures of this PLFR, although indispensable, barely touch the surface of the problem; This is their fault. Your thinking software and your world are collapsing. Let us leave here the remains of chaos! The solutions for tomorrow are not to be found, nor even to be sought: you have always had them in front of you. The solutions are those of whistleblowers, hospitalists despised for too long, brutalized firefighters, convicted postal workers, railway workers and so many others. These are also those we have proposed and continue to propose in our "The Common Future" program. What our social camp needs, what the French people need, is not to be told that its leaders have understood – everyone has understood what is happening! It needs to learn from the serious lessons of the past and the current disaster, that the same mistakes are not reproduced mechanically, for example, by giving 20 billion to private companies without imposing any conditions, without obtaining any social guarantees and without at any time complying with health planning. There must be non-negotiable conditions for such aid: no dismissals, no payment of dividends, no money given to polluters. There is also a need for clear strategic objectives. That is what will condition our position; If the amendments we are proposing, or those of other groups, are not taken into account, we will vote against this PLFR. This crisis is too serious for us to let it become a new ignored alarm signal. Now is the time to act, now is the time to prepare the next world.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u84	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u85	Today's discussion concerns the economic aspect of the health crisis. As I mentioned on 11 February last, this crisis, which is a sad but real illustration of the globalisation of trade, raises the question of our industrial sovereignty. Two months later, these words are always a glaring truth, and tomorrow, when measures are taken to revive our economy, it will be necessary to remember how the economic policy choices of recent decades have significantly weakened our country's resilience and its ability to cope with such a crisis. While waiting for this "after world" and the "decisions of rupture" to which the President of the Republic seems to have converted, we are discussing this morning the emergency measures that the State is implementing to respond to the collapse of our economy. We all want it to be as brief as possible, but like you, Minister, I fear that the economic crisis will last – it seems to me necessary to remind our compatriots of this truth. First of all, I find very relevant the strategy of favouring the use of partial unemployment, even if it is a very important cost to our public finances. In addition to securing the future of employees, this allows companies to retain know-how, competent employees and hence their ability, as soon as sanitary conditions permit, to resume a more normal activity. As far as business support is concerned, and especially for the smaller ones, let me find that the solution chosen by the Government, the solidarity fund, lacks simplicity, therefore efficiency, and seems largely inadequate in the face of the administrative closure of enterprises. On March 20, I made a proposal with the same objective as yours and for an amount that you are now approaching. The main differences with your devices are the direct aspect and the volume of help. In many respects, this crisis reminds us that the administrative burden is slowing down the impact of policies on the ground. You yourself have acknowledged in committee, Minister, that there will be a problem of congestion if more companies use this fund, particularly on its second floor. Where you are mobilising intermediary channels – especially Bpifrance and commercial banks – put in place award criteria – more than 50% loss of turnover – and use two levels of response depending on the amounts, I propose an own funds support scheme directly and automatically supporting companies with less than 1000 employees: each month, a package of 1500 euros per company, plus 1000 euros per employee. These funds would be paid by the Bank of France, as long as the crisis continued, directly into the business account. This would make it possible to remedy the liquidity problem of enterprises with less than 1000 employees, without discrimination, without bureaucratic procedures, without "holes in the racket" and, even, without a boon effect. It should be noted that the mechanisms provided already allow large companies to find solutions adapted to their situation. In addition to this fund, you are significantly increasing the appropriations from the trust account "State financial contributions" to $20 billion. I know that it is difficult to say at what level and in which companies you intend to take stakes, but if two flagships like Renault and Air France are mentioned, could you make known the criteria of choice: employment, the sector, companies targeted by foreign powers? Anyway, what's your strategy? One word, of course, about the increase in the revenue levy for the benefit of the European Union, of which you do not make much publicity – it is understandable that the latter was invalid during this crisis, so much so that Mrs von der Leyen had to apologize on her behalf! Of course, the European Central Bank has played its part, but, as we no longer have the monetary lever, it is just normal for the one who owns it to use it. This levy is an opportunity for me to recall that there is no money from the European Union, but only money from the nations given to the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u86	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u87	Let me not fully understand how making these 2 billions pass through the European bodies would be more effective than using them directly! Before concluding, I would like to publicly congratulate the companies of all sizes which have, on their own initiative, adapted their production, sometimes in depth, to supply French workers, particularly healthcare workers, with protective equipment. However, I am sorry that these initiatives have not always found prompt, full and complete support from the state. Above all, I regret that the total absence of a state strategy in the industrial field has caused a considerable delay in ignition. When the war is decreed, the productive apparatus must be set in motion to win it. Tomorrow, at the time of the break-up decisions, I am convinced that some of our proposals – I am thinking of economic patriotism or localism – will serve as the basis for our country's new economic model. In the meantime, we will vote for this text, which, even if imperfect and incomplete, allows us to keep our economy afloat, because it is the urgency of the day.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u88	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u89	I would like to reply to the inquiries from various banks concerning the cancellation of charges, bearing in mind that the President of the Republic, in his speech of 13 April 2020, drew up a list of the sectors concerned. First of all, a government of the Republic has never cancelled charges per economic sector, including during crises such as the one in 2009. Of course, it is not because this has never happened that it must not be done; However, I wanted to report it to the national representative. Either we did it for a given geographical territory, not for an area, because of a particular reason, for example a natural calamity – this was the case for the islands of Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthélemy following the storm Irma. Either cancellations, sometimes general and in large numbers, were decided on a case-by-case basis – I am thinking of the decisions taken by Mr Woerth when he was exercising ministerial responsibilities in 2009. In order to carry out general cancellations of charges for the sectors concerned, it will be necessary to go through the law – it is not enough to agree between us that we must do so! – and attention will have to be paid to the constitutionality of the scheme, bearing in mind that there should be no undue competition between sectors. We have a legal space, probably tenuous, and we will have to work on it collectively. The costs involved are obviously not the salary contributions. These are automatically paid when the salary is paid, just like income tax, which is now levied at source. In addition, these contributions provide employees with individual rights; It is not a question of denying these rights by removing the wage contributions. Our goal is to reverse the employer burden that was paid in March 2020. In April, the charges will be mechanically lower, with economic activity slowing down sharply – but we continue to accept the carry-over of the charges. Moreover, there is a legal difficulty. The Government has listed, in a regulatory act, the sectors that have been closed at its request before everyone else and which, obviously, will reopen after everyone else: restoration, arts and entertainment, as well as the event. Other sectors are particularly affected, but are not subject to administrative closures decided by the Government, such as hotels. Thus, many hotels are closed, many have a restaurant that is closed, others are open but have very few guests, some are finally requisitioned by the Government, but none are subject to the same legal regime as restaurants during this health crisis. Nevertheless, we cannot forget the hotel sector, which was quoted by the President of the Republic. Since the economic sectors concerned are subject to different legal regimes of general interest, the cancellation of charges should be objected to, in particular on the basis of lost revenue. In addition, the question arises of integrating different subsectors into these sectors. Thus, launderers who work for the hotel have not been asked to close, but it is obvious that they have done much less in recent weeks. Situations will have to be examined on a case-by-case basis: for example, some laundries may not work only with hotels and do not lose as much turnover as others. In short, when it comes to the cancellation of employer charges, we have to take into account sectors and then sub-sectors. In the end, it is not easy for me to deal with an unprecedented legal situation and risks of unconstitutionality, and with sectors that are difficult to list – not all professional federations are necessarily organized to do so. On the other hand, I am not in a position today to communicate the exact amount of the deferred employer's expenses – I asked the ACOSS who will probably provide it to me next week. To date, 60 per cent of restaurateurs have requested this postponement, which means that 40 per cent have not requested it. However, I will not propose the cancellation of the charges only for those who requested the postponement; It seems to me normal to do so also for those who played the game, if I may say, by paying their expenses thanks to their cash flow. We proposed the postponement of charges as of March 18, 2020. However, on the 15th of each month, companies with less than 50 employees pay their expenses, in particular through the nominative social declaration – DSN. On 15 March 2020, they had collected the money to pay these expenses, as they had worked normally in the first half of the month. However, they had cash flow problems for the future and asked for these expenses to be reimbursed, which we accepted. For example, restaurateurs or accountants changed their DSN and obtained reimbursement from the USSRAF. Of course, these entrepreneurs must also be affected by the cancellation of charges. The Government is working with ACOSS, the USSRAF and the professionals concerned. Even yesterday, I spoke in video conferencing with representatives of the catering, hospitality, camping and thermal sectors – one could multiply the examples by quoting the arts and entertainment sector or the event sector – on the strict question of the cancellation of charges. We will no doubt find a good compromise on this point, perhaps by proposing to Parliament an exemption from charges at the time of recovery for a number of months. Moreover, companies may find it much more difficult to pay them at that time, because their turnover will have decreased, because they will be asked to apply social distancing measures, because they will have to hire employees to restart the machine. In short, we are discussing this with the representatives of the sectors concerned. Furthermore, we are drawing up a plan for the catering and hospitality sectors – the Minister of Economy and Finance will mention it if he so wishes – far exceeding the framework of cancellations and exemptions from charges. However, I would like to draw attention to the legal difficulty, even if we overcome it, I imagine, by our political will: it is difficult to distinguish between the sectors concerned. We must ensure that we do not allow illegal passengers to board. In addition, members of the Socialist and Related Group referred to SMEs and those of the Group. Republicans prefer not to take into account the size of companies, a question that will also arise. While it is clear that the Government will apply the cancellations of charges announced by the President of the Republic, it is not so easy to define them at an instant t. I will endeavour to do so before your committees, if you wish, ladies and gentlemen. In any event, we will be proposing legislation, which Parliament will have to know about. It would not have been reasonable to do so within 24 hours, since the measure might not be economically effective for the undertakings concerned. Pending receipt of the information, they will be subject to the carry-over of charges. We will postpone the charges as much as possible, so that we can discuss their cancellation or exemption.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u90	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u91	I would like to clarify in response to the questions posed by Ms. Le Pen and Mr. de Courson on the special trust account "State financial contributions" and on the support to be given to certain companies. The trust account currently has approximately EUR 4 billion available, some of which is already in use. We are adding $20 billion, which puts at our disposal €24 billion to bring capital to certain companies. Which ones? These will be listed companies, whether private or public, and therefore necessarily large companies, which do not meet the eligibility criteria for State-guaranteed loans or support from the Economic and Social Development Fund. Which sectors are concerned? What are the criteria of choice? First, these will be the strategic sectors, which are essential to our national independence. This is the first criterion I have chosen to draw up a list of some 20 companies, which I have addressed to the President of the Republic and to the Prime Minister. Take the example of Air France: this company is vital to our national independence. It may be considered that it is not a matter of concern not to have a national company; We think the opposite is true. We have seen that it is absolutely essential to have at our disposal a national company capable of repatriating our citizens in the event of a health crisis. The second criterion is technological issues, the fact of being sensitive from this point of view. These are companies in which we have invested a great deal over the past few years – notably through the research tax credit – to be among the world's technology leaders. At present, the price of the shares of these companies can be very weak, making them easy to prey on. Allowing them to be bought would mean selling for nothing the technologies in which the French have invested billions of euros for decades. We must therefore protect them. Finally, the third criterion – Mrs Le Pen mentioned – is employment. The automotive industry – Renault is on the list – represents many jobs, both direct and indirect, in our territories. For example, in the Arve Valley, the decolleting industry is 60% dependent on the automotive industry. Therefore, if we sacrifice a large automobile company, we can be certain that tomorrow there will be consequences for employment in all our territories. These are the three criteria of choice that have been chosen: national independence, technology and employment. In what form can we intervene? In the form of capital injections, in the form of capital injections to the undertakings concerned, or in the form of nationalisation. To answer you, Mrs Rabault, nationalizations are meant to be temporary, I say it very clearly. It is not a question of living tomorrow in an administered economy, in which the state would lead businesses instead of people who can do it better than it does. This is not his vocation. It is to protect, and I fully assume this protective role. I will not allow large strategic enterprises, necessary for our independence, to be bought either by foreign funds or by foreign powers, for the reason that we would not have invested the necessary capital to protect them. However, I say that with great clarity, we will do so by setting conditions. This will not be a blank cheque for these companies. If the State brings them capital, which is, I would remind you, the French money, it must attach conditions to it. We will set two conditions. First, these companies will have to make an effort to restore competitiveness. This is, I repeat, French money, and we will not use it with lost funds. The second condition is the adoption of an ambitious environmental policy. If we bring money – again, it is French money – to large industrial companies, they will obviously have to make a total commitment to a decarbonised economy. This will be particularly true for the transport sector, particularly for air transport. The French would find it difficult to understand that we were providing billions of euros in support of industrial enterprises without making any effort to meet our commitments to reduce carbon emissions, in order to move towards a carbon-free economy, different from the one that existed before the crisis. Our policy, I say again clearly, will not be to give a blank cheque. Conditions will be laid down for these strategic enterprises to which we support: increasing their competitiveness and respecting the environment, with a view to speeding up the energy transition of the French nation. I stress one last point: all major powers do the same, including the United States, China and Germany. Our German partner has already provided €3 billion in direct loans to Adidas, which it believes is a pillar of its economy and part of its culture. All major powers understood that some of their major strategic enterprises needed public protection. France is one of these great powers; it will bring to its own the protection of public authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u92	I now call the clauses of the Financial Amendment Bill for 2020. As regards the defence of the amendments, I would remind you that, in view of the exceptional rules of presence in the Chamber in force, an amendment can be supported by any member of the group to which its author belongs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u93	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u94	We're going to spend huge sums in a snap of our fingers. From the memory of a parliamentarian – Charles de Courson is a witness – we have never spent so much money in such a short time. At some point in the debate, we have to say that with half of the EUR 40 billion that we are going to adopt, plus the EUR 10 billion of the previous PLFR, we would have solved all the problems of public services in our country: not only would they be the most exemplary in the world, but they would have all the necessary means of protection. This question is truly on the lips of our fellow citizens, especially since it is a matter of operating expenditure. Similarly, no one understands that we did not spend the other half – it would have been quite enough – to solve the environmental problems that you mentioned at the moment, Minister of Economy and Finance. For years, we have been asking for two, three, four or five billion euros to solve the next crisis, the environmental crisis – the abyss that is ahead of us. Of course, today we are in an urgent situation, and we will vote with good heart for these credits; But I have no doubt that, as part of the recovery plan you are thinking about, you are preparing the world of tomorrow. In any case, if we do not prepare the world of tomorrow – newer, more humane, more balanced – the younger generation will take a particularly cruel look at what we are doing right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u95	We come to the amendments to the introductory article. I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 40 and 410. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 40.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u96	[[Smile]] It's a little symbolic. Mr Minister for Action and Public Accounts, in the context of the previous PLFR, you kept the structural deficit at 2.2%. And now it's falling sharply to 2%! Can you indicate by which magic trick a very strong increase in the deficit results in a sharp improvement in the structural deficit? I confess to giving my tongue to the cat – the Darmanin cat! I'd like to ask a second question. A month ago, in committee, I asked the rapporteur-general whether we could be informed of the breakdown of the public deficit of 9% between the state, social security and local and regional authorities. I was told not to worry: it would be communicated to us for the public session. I'm still waiting for him... So I repeat: can you indicate, within the budget deficit that you estimate at 9% – this is an order of magnitude, we are no longer a few tenths of a point – the distribution of its amount between the state and the various bodies of central government – ODAC – social security and local and regional authorities? If you estimate the government deficit at 9%, you necessarily know the distribution between the three. This is the dual purpose of my modest intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u97	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendment No. 410.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u98	Minister, you have made a small pass trick by self-improved the structural deficit. I don't know what magic wand you used... I am well aware that the dividing line between structural deficit and cyclical deficit can still be discussed – we have debated a lot in this House. However, in this case, you play a little with our attention, or our inattention. To anticipate an improvement in the structural deficit in the context we know is quite strong coffee! I don't know if to give his tongue to the cat, to use Mr. de Courson's expression, but at least you have to justify that figure. I fear, however, that this will be difficult. Our amendment, like that of Mr de Courson, aims to maintain the structural deficit at the level which was still its own just a month ago. France's structural situation has not changed in a month – its economic situation yes, structural no.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u99	What is the opinion of the committee on these two identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u100	These amendments raise the question of the structural deficit. We may have the impression that we are reducing the structural deficit for 2020, but, in reality, its update is modelled on that of the structural deficit for 2019. The projected structural deficit for 2019 was 2.2%, and the forecast for 2020 was at the same level. Since last month, the structural deficit of 2019 has been updated to 2%, so the forecast for 2020 has also been updated. No doubt the Minister of Public Action and Accounts will explain it better than I do. In any case, there is no trick of a pass or magician behind all this – unfortunately! As regards the granularity of the public balance and the breakdown of the 9% deficit between the state budget, social security administrations and local and regional authorities, I would like to associate myself with your request to understand it as quickly as possible, ladies and gentlemen. However, it must also be understood that it is difficult to obtain a very fine view of the various budgets in these rather exceptional times. Moreover, for the French, there is only one France and only one budget. In the end, they retain the figure of 9% of the government deficit. However, as soon as we know its breakdown, I will be the first interested. I would remind you that the figures we are talking about – I will only say that once – are valid on a temporary basis. We are in a situation of absolute crisis. By definition, everything we do here – the Minister of Economy and Finance recalled in his opening remarks – is to be taken with great caution and humility: it is what we can estimate in the light of the crisis as we understand it today. The committee's opinion on both amendments is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u101	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u102	He's unfavorable. The Darmanin cat may fall on his feet, but it is not certain to take your tongue, Monsieur de Courson! Even though the debate seems a little out of date, budget implementation was good in 2019: we held public finances well, allowing us to borrow on advantageous terms even in the context of an economic crisis. The figures were made public at the time of the coronavirus crisis; So we haven't heard much of it. However, we have implemented the budget well, that we have even been beyond what we had planned, by further improving the public deficit that we had committed ourselves to. You told us that we would probably not be able to do it. But let us not dwell on the past. As for the many expenses and revenue losses, we consider them to be short-term, one-off.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u103	The problem isn't here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u104	All countries are doing the same, and this analysis has been validated by the High Public Finance Council and the European Commission. Perhaps tomorrow there will be a recovery plan or a plan to reduce taxation, which will then have a structural effect, but for the moment this is not the case. There are therefore three elements: an improvement in the accounts in 2019 – which everyone has probably forgotten a little bit quickly – the rebase mentioned by the rapporteur-general and this very important one-off effect, accepted as such by all those who observe our accounts. That's the answer the cat gives you, Mr. de Courson. I can understand your willingness to break down the deficit, but it is very difficult to do under changing conditions: we do not yet know all the consequences of the crisis on all public administrations. Of the 9 percentage points of GDP of the government deficit, a 7.5 percentage points decrease is due to the state, which must be deducted a 1.1 percentage point increase for the ODACs – we will probably have the opportunity to talk about the operators again in a few weeks or months; A decrease of 0.4 percentage points would be the result of the local authorities, which are relatively little affected at the time I speak to you and whose cash flow remains very large; and a decrease of 2.2 percentage points is attributable to the social field. These are the indicative figures we have provided to the High Public Finance Council and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u105	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u106	The forecasts are extremely difficult, that is true, but it is still artificial to improve the structural balance. You have made an effort of sincerity regarding the rate of growth; Since the coronavirus was short-term, common sense commanded that the structural balance should not be changed. However, the main thing is not there, it is in the breakdown of the government deficit. First, there is a need for clarification of social accounts. As you have said, Minister, the additional expenditures are assessed, including in the ONDAM, the national goal of health insurance expenditures. You have decided that they would not be the subject of a bill to amend the financing of social security, a choice that can be understood. But there are also significant losses of contributions, which means revenue, and this point needs to be clarified. Secondly, with regard to local and regional authorities, I have seen in the general statement of reasons that you have looked closely at things, since you indicate that the transfer rights for consideration – DMTO – will overreact, as well as the corporate tax. You're right, and this drop in the DMTO product may put departments in trouble. The evolution of the general government balance, broken down by the state, social security administrations and local and regional authorities, is therefore one of the indicators that you will have to provide.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u107	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u108	Minister, you're talking about good news. In fact, the calculation of the structural balance is based not on a forecast of growth, but on potential growth, that is, on the country's ability to create wealth, on what it would produce if the productive apparatus were fully mobilized. Therefore, when you say you saw it, measured it, shifted it from 2019 to 2020, it's not true: it's not measurable. It is even so wrong that the European Commission, which makes its own calculation of the structural deficit, does not find the same results as you. It is much less optimistic: it estimated this deficit at 2.5% last year. I understand that this is a "tech" debate that may be of interest only to me... What does this number mean? The higher the structural deficit, the less capacity we have to activate the full potential of our economy. By a pass-by, you claim that the structural deficit is less than expected. Again, this is not true, since neither the IMF nor the World Bank nor the European Commission nor anyone in the world can measure it; It is calculated on the basis of potential growth, which indicates what the growth rate would be if the country's full productive capacity were mobilized. I would therefore like to correct this point. I take this opportunity to bounce back on Gilles Carrez's words. The introductory article is the only one to offer a consolidated vision of all public finances: social, local and state.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u109	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u110	All of the following articles relate solely to the State. It is therefore important that, at this stage of the examination of the text, we have a global perspective, because nothing is said about social security administrations. You did not tell us, for example, how many fewer social contributions there would be.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u111	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u112	Thank you, Minister, for sharing this decomposition, which has traditionally been included in the explanatory memorandum to the opening article. With regard to the 1.1-point increase for the ODACs, I cannot explain the sudden appearance of these some 25 billion surpluses. As for the 2.2-point decline in social security, this is a deficit of about $50 billion. Given that $8 billion is attributable to UNEDIC and $7 billion is related to the re-evaluation of ONDAM, revenue losses would amount to $35 billion, which we believe is a reasonable order of magnitude. For local and regional authorities, the increase from a 0.5 point increase – what the original finance law had planned – to a 0.4 point decrease, which makes a difference of 20 billion. Could you comment on these three developments, Minister? On the other hand, I continue to say that we needed a bill to amend social security funding. There have been a few of them since the creation of the social security financing laws, and I find it unfortunate that you do not present one at the same time as this PLFR, which would have given us an overview of the situation at the moment we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u113	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u114	I do not know whether the time is right for discussing structural adjustment, or whether that is the subject of the text we are presenting. However, I understand that the introductory article is important in that it provides a "all-government" vision. We make public finances, and it is normal to inform national representation. On the form, when we discussed here the changes that would allow us to better examine the state of public finances – changes that the rapporteur-general may still have in mind to propose after the crisis – we have seen the value of this vision. I would like to remind those who, as soon as it comes to debate "all UPAs", cry out at the end of social security and local authorities. Mrs Rabault may consider that what we are proposing is not fair. However, we have complied with INSE's requests. I imagine that no Member of Parliament questions his figures on the basis of which this text was drawn up. Again, of course, things can still evolve during the year. The loss of tax revenue, which I mentioned in the Finance Committee, amounts to just over EUR 30 billion compared to PLFR 1, to EUR 42 billion compared to the original budget. This includes a significant decrease in corporate income, as margins are reduced, and a loss of approximately 10 billion VAT. As far as this is concerned, I have very few elements; Perhaps it will continue in part thanks to the distribution sector. In addition, there would be a 4.5 billion reduction in income tax revenue and a 1 billion decrease in the domestic consumption tax on energy products. There will be a contraction in the wage bill, as shown in the income tax figures, including changes in the tax rate at source. I note in passing that you have not all supported this reform, while it is a powerful social shock: every day hundreds of thousands of taxpayers, including independents, connect to the tax website to remove their down payment – I wanted to let Mrs Louwagie and Mr Le Fur know. This money we will not collect will be used to support purchasing power and the economy. The contraction of the payroll will obviously result in the reduction of contributions, but ACOSS is not yet in a position to assess it. The Minister of Economy and Finance announced this morning that 9 million people were partially unemployed, so there are a few hundred thousand more than at the beginning of the week! I will communicate the elements to you as soon as I have them myself. As for social accounts, they evolve at high speed V. As long as a bill to amend the financing of social security goes from the Council of Ministers to the House, the revenue and expenditure figures would probably already have changed by several billion, and you would complain. As I have indicated to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, who may join the Committee on Social Affairs if he wishes, I will be happy to come to the committee, if necessary with the Minister for Solidarity and Health, to present to you the state of social accounts as we see it; I'll do it in the Senate next week. Finally, Mr Carrez, I mentioned the local authorities in my introductory statement, in particular the fact that they will need the support of the public authorities, and honesty pushes to say so. There are two types of problems: those that will arise in a month, such as the decrease in the proceeds of DMTO, residence taxes and the granting of sea, to which must be added the losses suffered by casinos or thermal baths; And those who will arise in a year's time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u115	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u116	These will be much more important: VAT, the DMTO, the production taxes, which we will have to discuss, and the rate changes decided by the communities to support the economy. As far as territorial authorities are concerned, the major issue will therefore be the budget for 2021, which will also deal with the reform of the housing tax. Mr de Courson, I can talk about "all APUs", but it would be preferable to simplify the debates on this subject in the future. In any case, I am at the disposal of the committees to go into the details. Even if I understand your requests very well, if I may express an opinion on the parliamentary debate, this is not the most important point of the text that we are presenting to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u117	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor in support of Amendment No 38, which adds an additional rule after the opening statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u118	I do not understand why this amendment was not linked to the introductory article, since we will return to the discussion we had at the moment, in other words, the breakdown of the public deficit. In fact, you outlined an answer, minister. Usually, this decomposition appears in the body of the text. As is not the case here, we propose, by this amendment, that it be the subject of a report by the Government to Parliament before 1 May. I would like to stress the local and regional authorities, for which you are announcing a decrease of 0.4 percentage points. The situation will be very heterogeneous from one community to another and from one type of community to another. This will be particularly true for the departments. We have mentioned their revenues, but let us not forget their expenses. In the context of this text, we will, at least I hope, be voting for measures in favour of the beneficiaries of social minima, particularly the RSA. They will increase the expenditure of the departments. Some expenses, directly related to the crisis, will be borne by local authorities. We need to know the breakdown of the deficit not only between the state, social security and communities, but also by type of community. You indicated that the cash flow of the communities remained significant. I have no doubt, but we will have to take into account, again, the heterogeneity of situations. We would also be interested in the information you have on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u119	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u120	It is unfavourable, for the reasons set out above.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u121	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u122	It is unfavorable, but I give a clarification to Mrs Pires Beaune, who took care to defend her amendment and that the previous debate had to be frustrated: we will have the opportunity to discuss it, sector by sector, during the debate on the orientation of public finances, which will be held soon – unfortunately, if I may say so, because it will probably still be difficult to make forecasts. As regards local authorities, I repeat, I am at the disposal of Parliament. If the Committee on Public Finance or the delegation to local authorities and decentralisation wishes to hear me, I will be happy to go at their invitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u123	We are considering the first part of the Finance Amendment Bill for 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u124	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u125	We are about to consider this second amending finance bill, based on a scenario of economic development which is itself based on decisions, in particular that of defining from 11 May, and on a series of assumptions: after the very restrictive measures of containment, the recovery should only be very gradual; Household consumption is expected to resume this fall, and tourism flows are expected to resume at the end of the year. This scenario determines not only the budgetary adjustments we will have to make, but also the measures to support the economy and the social emergency measures. There is a strong correlation between the date of the breakdown, the planned means, the strategy and the measures we are discussing today, which raises many questions. Why was this date chosen? Is this choice based on scientific or medical reasons? Is it related to the evolution of the disease? What's the strategy? We have the impression that we have opted for collective immunity. Let's hope she's under control. As a result, schools are reopened and the least-at-risk people are returned to work. This leads to insecurity for those who will return to work. What protections will they be able to benefit from? Masks are beginning to be missing less in hospitals, but there are still not enough masks in medical-social institutions or for home helpers. Don't we take an inconsiderate risk by putting our kids back in school? This gives rise to many questions and reactions among the parents of the students. Tracking raises the issue of individual freedoms. What are our screening capabilities? We need to be reassured about the strategy you have chosen, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u126	Thank you, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u127	Will the means be on the rendezvous? Your answer depends not only on the seriousness of the economic scenario but also on the strength of the measures we are discussing. Aren't you afraid that your scenario will be upset by a rebound in illness?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u128	I should like to recall that statements on the item are limited to two minutes. Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u129	We approve of Article 1, but yesterday in the Finance Committee we raised the following problem. Funds have been created in different territories to support small businesses and associations. The regional council, the ten departmental councils and the 174 public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation in the region, with a budget of 44 million, provides for two euros per inhabitant of each territory. I have proposed that aid from these funds should be exempt, just as is the case with the State-owned business solidarity fund. Everyone agreed yesterday, didn't they, rapporteur-general? I have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect, with your agreement, but it has been declared inadmissible on the grounds that it concerns local and regional authorities. First of all, it concerns the tax levied by the State. Would you agree to take up this proposal which had reached a consensus in committee? I quoted the fund of the Great East, but there are many others. That of Brittany, for example, with some 20 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u130	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u131	I would like to take advantage of the two small minutes that have been given to alert you to certain matters, ministers, several of my amendments having been declared inadmissible. First of all, the refusal of insurers to compensate for business losses on the pretext that the epidemic was not one of the planned cases leaves the French perplexed. I would therefore like to return to this by quoting a survey conducted among the executives of TPE-SME: 80% of them believe that they were supported by their banker during this crisis, while 76% deplore the lack of support of their insurer. You said earlier that the insurers had abounded the solidarity fund to the tune of 185 million out of the 200 million promised, but that is not enough and the French do not understand their attitude. Family real estate companies or natural persons who own historical monuments receiving from the public are also in a dramatic situation, as they are excluded from the aid scheme. I would like to mention the case of Saint-André Abbey, a private historical monument whose gardens are also classified and have received the label "remarkable garden". Each year, it receives 30,000 visitors between March and October. The only revenue is from the ticket office. It is a disaster for the preservation of our heritage. I would also like to draw your attention to the hotel, bar and restaurant sector, which I had proposed to exempt from the fee due to SACEM – Society of Music Authors, Composers and Publishers – and to CPAC – Civil Society of Associate Producers – for waiting music, at least for companies with administrative closures. I also relay a request from the accountants in my constituency, who played a remarkable role during this crisis to help businesses. They would like, Mr. Minister of Action and Public Accounts, to see the filing dates of the tax liases postponed, because they are overwhelmed by crisis management and many of them are unlikely to be able to meet the deadlines. Finally, I regret that my amendment on factoring was not accepted, because it seemed to me to be an interesting solution for companies. I'll write to you about it. I'd have a lot left to say, but I'm sticking to it, for lack of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u132	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u133	The provisions of section 1, as well as the bill as a whole, seem to us to fall short of the measures that the state should take to respond effectively to the health emergency, to ensure economic recovery and to avoid the impoverishment of the most fragile, the first victims of this crisis. While fiscal stimulus will increase public debt, in times of depression the consequences will remain limited. As a result of the recovery, tax revenues will rise and, with interest rates remaining low compared to growth rates, public debt will not be a snowfall. On the other hand, the fiscal leverage could significantly reduce the burden of these expenditures. In our view, it should be at the heart of this bill, but it is not. Our proposals in this direction have all been rejected, which is a problem. While we are calling for collective effort, the solidarity tax on wealth should be restored. Some of our most privileged fellow citizens seem to be ready to take action. There should also be an increase in the taxation of capital and a tax on savings. Finally, the financing of investments in health, social and environmental fields requires the European Central Bank to buy back the debt of the Member States and turn it into a perpetual debt. It is a pity that our country is not defending this solution, which would promote a real revival and enable the European Union to play a fundamental role. Clause 1, as well as the bill as a whole, will not be able to meet the needs of the period we are living in.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u134	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u135	As Mrs Louwagie said, we support the State's commitment, which will have a clear impact on social spending, which is quite logical. I would like to point out that the communities also commit themselves, starting with the regions, which finance a quarter of the EUR 1500 aid granted to very small businesses and self-entrepreneurs. For the Brittany region, which I know well, this participation amounts to 10.5 million a month, knowing that the first payment has already been made, as the Minister of Economy and Finance said. The departments are also committed, since they will have to bear the social expenditure in the first place. Mr de Courson referred to regional initiatives – in the Great East, in Brittany or elsewhere – to create a business support fund. In Brittany, the region participates to the tune of two euros per inhabitant, as well as departments, intercommunalities and communes. What measures will you take for these funds, which are intended to contribute to the recovery? Finally, communities will only be able to fully engage if their governance is assured. More than 5000 communes do not yet have an executive, as the elections have not been completed. The public order will not be able to resume until the democratic process is completed. This is not the purpose of this text, of course, but the issue is linked. Let us not forget the efforts made by the communities, especially those I know.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u136	The next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u137	I would like to answer the legitimate and specific questions raised during this debate. You have all cited two categories of highly sought after actors during this crisis, banks and insurers. I will add a third one, the large land companies, which collect rents, especially from traders. It seems to me that the banking sector, I repeat, has played the game of solidarity, in particular by granting State-guaranteed loans. We can always do better, of course, but I believe that, from the beginning, the banks have mobilized. The figures quoted by Mrs Ménard are clear and correspond to what SMEs and businesses actually feel on the ground. Every week, I will communicate to Parliament the refusal rates, so that the situation can be assessed objectively and the system can be further improved. Through the banks, it is especially their agents that I thank, because they agreed to receive customers and processed the loan files. I pay tribute to them for their work. As far as insurers are concerned, I tell you quite simply, we were not satisfied at the outset. The Prime Minister and I had to summon the insurers, which was not necessary for the banks. The insurers have agreed to review their copy and to increase their commitment to national solidarity: they will double their participation in the solidarity fund from 200 to 400 million euros; they will invest 1.5 billion in the health sector SMEs and will grant 500 million euros of commercial rebates. I welcome this solidarity effort, which is moving in the right direction. But the most important thing, I say again, is the work that will be done tomorrow with you, parliamentarians, and with the insurers, on the state of health catastrophe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u138	That's one of our proposals!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u139	It does not yet exist, unlike the state of natural disaster – in the event of drought or a particular climate event. We must, within six months, define the state of health disaster and the type of disaster associated with it, which will enable us to prevent future pandemics. It would be unimaginable not to provide us with a mechanism to supplement insurance contracts in order to cover operating losses and other damage caused by a health disaster. This very important work must be done quickly. On the donor side, good work has been done, but we can do better. Major land holdings have made commitments. I brought them together yesterday and I will reunite them today with the aim of reaching an agreement, in which they would undertake not only to postpone the rents, but to cancel three months for the very small enterprises, with fewer than ten employees, whose activity was suspended by administrative decree. It would be just justice, because these companies will not be able to restart if they are asked, at the same time, to repay their rents. Here I distinguish very small companies and chains, whose situation is different and calls for treatment on a case-by-case basis. Some of them, such as brands belonging to large luxury groups, have the kidneys strong enough to pay for this type of expenditure; Others will have more difficulty. In any case, for traders, employing fewer than ten employees, that would be impossible. I therefore ask the land owners to make this solidarity effort by giving up three months of rent, and I gave them an appointment this afternoon to discuss it. Mrs Ménard, you want to make SCIs owners of historic monuments and receiving ticket revenue eligible for state-guaranteed loans. You are right, and we will: it is very important that historical monuments have access to it. Finally, in order to answer the question that has been put to me on deconfining, I am convinced that we will be able to organise the resumption of activity provided that we take the right decisions and clarify the rules on the basis of the national deconfining protocol proposed by Laurent Berger and the CFDT, as well as on guides of good practice developed by trade. The recovery will necessarily be gradual, as consumer behaviour will have changed in the aftermath of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u140	The next speaker is the Minister for Action and Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u141	Mr Le Fur, the regions will contribute 7% to the financing of the Solidarity Fund: they will contribute EUR 500 million, compared with EUR 7 billion for the State. Of course, we welcome this contribution, but it would be wrong to say that it represents a quarter of the fund. Like many of your colleagues, Mrs Ménard, you asked me about the filing date for corporate tax liases. We have already extended the deadline for all returns, including the tax return, even in paper form, by one month, until mid-June. However, these returns are important not only for tax officers, but also for taxpayers themselves, since they allow them to benefit from tax credits. As of this summer, corporations will receive tax credits through their spring returns. If we extend the filing date indefinitely, we will not be able to inject that money into the real economy. In addition, for natural persons, the tax return opens up a number of rights, such as the energy check for non-taxable persons or certain reductions in the canteen rates and recreation centres to be requested from local authorities at the start of the year. We have already extended the date to the maximum. However, I understand that this may present difficulties for companies, whose tax returns are more complex to complete than those of individuals; We have therefore agreed to simplification. I invite accountants to come closer to their departmental Directorate of Public Finance. I have communicated a lot with the Order of Accountants, and they are aware of the situation. For corporate tax, they will be able to provide a simplified return and provide additional documents later, as is the case for VAT. Moreover, of course, no penalty for delay will be applied. For companies which do not know their turnover because they do not have access to their accounts, in the event that they are neither computerised nor known to accountants, it will always be possible to find an arrangement. I have given instructions to the departmental directors of public finance. But, I repeat, we have already extended the deadline by more than a month. If the French and the companies do not declare their income, the tax administration will not be able to pay them the tax credits to which they are entitled, nor to provide them with the documents they need.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u142	We come to the amendments to Article 1. Mr Laurent Saint-Martin's amendment No 191 is drafting. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u143	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u144	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u145	Mr Minister of Economy and Finance, I wanted to say a word about rents. Ten days ago, I attended a meeting of the Supervisory Committee of the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, of which I am a member, and asked the question of rents. Indeed, the CDC, either in its own name or through real estate subsidiaries such as Icade, is an important real estate owner. I therefore asked whether, as part of its role as a damper, the CDC should not consider rent deferrals. The representative of the Directorate-General for the Treasury replied in the negative, arguing that the public authorities having launched an important aid scheme, through the support fund and State-guaranteed loans, should not play on other keyboard keys, such as debts between companies, as this could cause problems in cascades. Public aid should therefore be used primarily. Although I can understand this point of view, I do not entirely share it. At any rate, I wanted to report this to you. For my part, I agree with you: whenever possible, an effort will have to be made to postpone the rents of small businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u146	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u147	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u148	You have told us, Minister of Economy and Finance, that the insurers will make an additional effort. I would point out that, from the outset, we considered that the EUR 200 million put on the table by the insurers were largely insufficient. In addition, you are examining what can be done with regard to the risk of a health crisis. Please be aware that we have tabled a bill that includes the creation of health disaster risk coverage. Article 1 provides for the exemption from taxes and contributions of aid paid by the Solidarity Fund, which is a very good thing. Our amendment echoes the concern expressed earlier by Mr de Courson: we propose that aid paid by local and regional authorities, in particular the regions, should benefit from the same scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u149	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u150	This amendment is very similar to that of Mr de Courson, who was found inadmissible. My answer therefore applies to both amendments. Unless I am mistaken, there are no historical cases of tax exemption in the ordinary system for subsidies paid by local authorities. That would be a first. Although I understand the philosophy behind your proposal, I am not sure that this is a good idea, for two reasons. Firstly, as I said yesterday in committee, we must be consistent in terms of aid to businesses in times of crisis. These aids are very temporary: they will only be paid for a few weeks. They must be simple, easy to access and intelligible to all, starting with businesses and those who accompany them. It is necessary to avoid over-territorialisation of these aids and, on the contrary, to act more together to accompany companies. That is why the Solidarity Fund is open to any community wishing to contribute to it, even if I understand that local issues can take precedence. Secondly, I do not wish the State to give up its commitment by exempting from taxes aid which is not its own. That would be a bad precedent. On the other hand, I believe that the state and local and regional authorities should be around the table, if not already, in order to coordinate their action in favour of companies, less today – because I believe that the current safety nets are the right ones – than tomorrow, for recovery. We will then need local authorities, who are often more familiar with local industrial specificities than the State itself and will help us determine which aid is most appropriate. For all these reasons, I express an opinion against the amendment, without being in principle unfavourable to the fact that local and regional authorities are involved in the current national effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u151	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u152	The same opinion as the rapporteur-general. To answer you, Mr.Carrez, I share your position: I want the effort to be shared, and the CDC's land is one of the major donors that I will be consulting again this afternoon. I repeat: my objective is the cancellation, for three months, of the rents of very small enterprises closed by administrative decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u153	All right! Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u154	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u155	I was not convinced by the rapporteur-general's reply. Why should the tax system vary depending on the source of the aid? This is in all cases transitional aid paid during an exceptional period. On the contrary, simplicity would like to see the same system adopted for all these aids. I therefore maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u156	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin's amendment No 195 is drafting. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u157	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u158	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u159	Article 1 clarifies the solidarity fund by exempting from taxes and social contributions the aid paid by this fund, which is a very good thing. You have also introduced flexibilities, notably by lowering the threshold for loss of turnover from 70% to 50% and by changing the reference period. But I'm surprised to see that there are still holes in the snowshoe. The Solidarity Fund, as you present it, is intended to cover the fixed costs of companies; This is an important support, which goes in the right direction. However, some restrictive criteria result in the underestimation of these fixed costs. In some cases, the situation of the leader is taken into account. If he receives a retirement pension or if he has a full-time employment contract, the company is not eligible for the scheme, although his expenses may put him in difficulty. In addition, the Explanatory Memorandum states that only companies with a taxable annual profit of less than EUR 60000 may receive aid from the Solidarity Fund. However, in order to assess the company's situation with regard to this threshold, the text provides for the addition of the director's remuneration and social security charges to the taxable profit. As a result, some companies with a taxable benefit of EUR 25000 do not have access to the Solidarity Fund. I therefore call on you to review the conditions for access to the Solidarity Fund, as this would be an important support for many TPEs involved in spatial planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u160	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u161	I would like to respond to Mrs Louwagie's comments. We had a similar discussion yesterday about the dead angles of the device,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u162	Or the holes in the racket!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u163	... and I would like to pay tribute to the Government, which issued a decree this morning concerning the co-owners, after we informed him of an upsurge in this matter. This decree provides that the threshold of 60000 euros will be multiplied by the number of partners and will take into account the collaborating spouse. As you know, the inclusion of the collaborating spouse in the company to better protect it had been an important part of the law on business growth and transformation, known as the PACTE law. I thank the minister for hearing our request.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u164	It's about time!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u165	We discussed this yesterday: you are right, we also hope that pensioners, who can benefit, if they are employed, from the cumulation of partial unemployment and their retirement, can also accumulate, if they are entrepreneurs, the solidarity fund with their retirement.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u166	It is the company that is eligible for the solidarity fund!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u167	Yes, of course, you're right. It is important for us to protect as many people as possible. That is the meaning of the action of the Government and of ours, when we bring up the cases of which we are aware from the territories. I am pleased that our discussions allow us to move forward today on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u168	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u169	I would just like to point out that we have continuously adapted this solidarity fund, which is generous since it has increased from EUR 1 billion to EUR 7 billion; that is to tell you how much it corresponds to the expectations of entrepreneurs. Many of them have found an initial answer, or rather one of the elements of the answer we have to give them. Today, more than 900000 entrepreneurs have registered on the site to benefit from these benefits. The Fund should continue to be adapted. I am happy to acknowledge that those who have a job and a small retirement can face difficulties. I am quite open to the idea of taking into account the situation of people who, complementing a small retirement with an activity, are not currently eligible for the Solidarity Fund. It would be fair for them to be. I therefore receive Mrs Louwagie's message on this subject five out of five. Finally, I want to tell you, even if it will be for later, that for all sectors whose closure obligation will be extended after May 11 – hotels, restaurants, bars, events, etc. – the solidarity fund can be an effective tool, provided that it is adapted to the reality of the trades, in particular those of restoration. In the next ten days, we will work together with this sector to better adapt the Solidarity Fund to what their needs will be after 11 May.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u170	We come to amendments on the additional article after Article 1. I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 153, 156, 159, 213 and 252. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u171	It aims to introduce, for a limited period of six months from the end of the containment measures, a reduction in the tax applicable to biodiesel, because the cumulative effect of the low demand for biofuel linked to these measures and the fall in oil prices has led to a significant decrease in biodiesel consumption in France of around 70%. However, the French vegetable oils and proteins sector continued its production of biodiesel during this period of crisis in order to maintain strategic supplies of food oil, rapeseed meal for animal nutrition and glycerine, which is used for the production of hydroalcoholic gel. These are the co-products of biodiesel manufacturing. This has led to the creation of large stocks of biodiesel which the industry will have difficulties in valuing once the deconfining measures have been pronounced. However, its destabilization will lead to the destabilization of the agricultural sector upstream.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u172	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 156.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u173	Mr de Courson summed up the situation perfectly. I would just add that the production of biodiesel cannot stop, because the raw material, which is used for this production, is also used for other purposes, in particular the production of rapeseed meal for animal feed. It is therefore essential to amortise the shock that this sector is suffering. This is the subject of these identical amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u174	Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u175	The cumulative effect of low fuel demand due to containment measures and the fall in oil prices has led to a significant decrease in biodiesel consumption in France. However, it is important to support and promote this sector, especially since it has had to continue its production in order to maintain strategic supplies of food oil and rapeseed meal for animal nutrition. In order to facilitate the disposal of the large stocks made up by the sector, we propose to introduce a partial reimbursement of the TICEP of EUR 10 per hectolitre, for a limited period of six months from the end of the period of restrictions on out-of-home travel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u176	I call Mr Belkhir Belhaddad to support Amendments Nos 213 and 252.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u177	The first signatories were Ms. Sylla and Mr. Moreau, respectively. They aim to introduce, for a limited period of six months from the end of the containment measures, a reduction in the tax on biodiesel, for the reasons which my colleagues have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u178	What is the opinion of the committee on these five identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u179	Of course, we must be concerned about supporting the French biodiesel industry. On the other hand, the tax instrument does not seem to me to be the most appropriate, firstly because biodiesel already benefits from tax measures. Secondly, from both a technical and a legal point of view, it does not seem to me possible to determine the French origin of biodiesel; the measure would therefore not be applicable. Finally, let us not forget that, while the volume of stocks may be problematic, biodiesel allows certain activities to continue; They therefore use it. For all these reasons, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u180	The next speaker is the Secretary of State to the Minister for Public Affairs and Public Accounts, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u181	The Government's opinion is unfavourable not only for the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur-general, but also because, as the Minister for Action and Public Accounts has already pointed out in committee, we are currently taking urgent action related to the pandemic. Economic measures accompanying removal from containment will take other forms; We still have some time to think about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u182	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u183	I regret that the committee and the government are against amendments that, by supporting the bioethanol sector, would also support agriculture, particularly the sugar sector – and God knows that it needs them! I would also like to point out that this sector, in particular Tereos, produces the hydro-alcoholic solution. Let us show solidarity with a sector that is itself showing solidarity during this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u184	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor to support Amendment No. 200.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u185	This morning, on France Inter, philosopher Dominique Bourg questioned the allocation of 20 billion to companies like Air France or Renault. He recommended not to rush on the path of any revival, but to slow down the movement to think of another model, with a view to building a viable planet not for tomorrow but for today. With this amendment, we are in line with this logic by proposing, from now on, the elimination of two environmentally harmful tax niches: the reimbursement of aviation kerosene and diesel fuel for road transport. Many other tax niches that are harmful to the environment continue to exist. Their cost is estimated at $13 billion, which could be used to finance various emergency measures related to the current situation. Ladies and gentlemen, we must direct tax policy now towards greening the economy. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u186	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u187	I think the opposite is true: this is not the time to change our fiscal policy, because it would not fail to make the difficulties of industries worse, which we must on the contrary keep floating and save. That is why we should not go back, in particular, to the exemptions from ICTPE, because this could put many of our businesses at risk. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u188	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u189	The same opinion applies, in particular, to the exemption which benefits the air sector. Other provisions of the PLFR stress how difficult this sector is in the period we are going through.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u190	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u191	It is clear that we disagree with your view of market ecology, Mr General. It is now that it is necessary to begin the forklift so that a sector such as the air sector, which is one of the main drivers of greenhouse gas emissions, aims not to catch up, as several members of the Government have pointed out, but rather to adapt to the need to reduce these emissions. Everyone has seen in recent weeks, thanks in particular to striking images, how much the slowdown in activity has had a positive effect on these emissions. We are thus better aware of the urgent need to change the model, especially since it is this model that has created the conditions for the spread of the virus. The decisions we make today will determine how we will deal with the urgency in the next period. By starting by questioning these exemptions, we would enter into a new logic: to set ecological and social conditions for supporting firms in difficulty. We are not opposed to such support, provided we do so within the framework of a radical bifurcation which must ultimately lead to the reduction of air and road transport and the development of other modes of transport, including rail. Our amendments to this effect therefore have their full place in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u192	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u193	This is an important issue. Indeed, while we did not expect this health crisis, we were able to provide considerable resources to deal with it. So it's wrong to pretend there's no money: there's plenty of money. We are certain of the coming crisis, which will be an environmental crisis, and we know precisely how to implement it. Nevertheless, every day is enough, and it is now a matter of saving our economy. I am not shocked at all by the fact that we are devoting these considerable resources to this end. The question you are asking will have to be answered in the context of the recovery plan. We must in fact completely green our policies and regulate them with a human dimension, in particular to save all common goods, otherwise the younger generation will take a cruel look at our action. [[Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol applauds]] I repeat, we will have to ask this question again in the coming months, because everything has to change.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u194	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 203.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u195	I hear your answers, but if we want to change things today in a context of urgency and despite the famous debt of local finances, we need money, which we will find precisely in the tax niches harmful to the environment. Here we take up a proposal from ATTAC, the Association pour la taxation des transactions financières et pour l'action citoyenne, which is in the same spirit as the previous one: to introduce unilaterally and immediately an additional carbon tax for all French industrial sites subject to the European carbon market. I would point out that, because of several tax niches maintained by the Government, the 1,400 most polluting industrial sites and most of the most greenhouse gas-emitting companies in France are exempt from the carbon tax, which is paid by households. It is therefore not a matter of a sector, such as air transport, but of specific industrial sites. In this period of urgency and recovery, not all industries are worth it. And it is precisely because public finances are being undermined that an effort must be made to remove these types of niches.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u197	The same opinion as for the previous amendment. Mrs Obono, contrary to what you said, my vision is not that of a market ecology. On the other hand, I am guided by a conviction: during the crisis we are going through, no jobs should be left on the side of the road. If we prevent our industries and businesses from raising their heads, these jobs will be lost. So you're talking about issues of recovery, not urgency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u198	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u199	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u200	Same opinion, for the same reasons. On the form, I would add that the Government has chosen to table two PLFRs: the first to respond to the emergency, the second to strengthen the means available and to provide new answers, especially to the most fragile households. The recovery and how we will support the economy in the wake of the health crisis that affects it will be discussed later. Without detracting from the legitimacy of the debates launched by each other, the Government has also chosen not to deal in this PLFR with the tax issues already discussed during the consideration of the finance bill for 2020. It is also this concern for consistency that explains the Government's unfavourable views on such amendments. I will no longer make this clear in the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u201	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u202	Before the health crisis, the Finance Committee had begun work on tax niches, especially those that are harmful to the environment. Of course, he will be prosecuted. Nevertheless, as the Secretary of State and Mr Pancher have said, today we must devote all our energy to supporting the French economy, so that it does not collapse. On the other hand, I would like to point out the absurdity of some of the arguments: the previous amendment, for example, tended to remove exemptions from ICTPE. However, this would create additional burdens for companies, especially for those who are now the famous second line! I am thinking in particular of freight hauliers, which allow the French to eat. I therefore sometimes wonder about the consistency of the various amendments. Anyway, don't worry: we will be at the meeting to ensure a sustainable recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u203	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u204	Mr Secretary of State, Mr rapporteur-general, ladies and gentlemen, thinking that we can see later how to organise the next world, I think you are very mistaken. The state will invest in the recovery plan more than it has done for years, especially for businesses. And we should do it only with the concern to save jobs, without preparing the world after? In the 2017 presidential campaign, we proposed an investment plan of 100 billion, especially in the ecological transition, support for public services and the health system, all that we lack today to deal with the crisis. We regret that we were not elected to apply it! For your part, you propose 42 billion in direct aid and other expenditure only to save employment. So you don't take advantage of it to start another sharing of wealth and an economy that would take the environmental issue into consideration now structurally. Yet we know that the environmental crisis will end up falling on us! In fact, I think that coronavirus is already an aspect of it. If you really believe the world after, you should prepare it in this emergency plan. But you do not do it, and you are wrong, hence the reproaches which we speak to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u205	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u206	I regret that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance is no longer present, because I would have liked to continue the debate on nationalisations, which has been initiated in committee. Nothing is yet written, but he said this morning that the 20 billion would be invested in strategic companies, those that guarantee our independence and sovereignty, including health, as well as to save jobs. For some time now, some companies, sometimes their employees, have been knocking on the door asking for their business to be put back on the road or saved. Now I've been trying to get answers about the requisition and nationalization of these companies for a long time! I am thinking in particular of Luxfer, the only company in Europe to manufacture oxygen cylinders for medical purposes. She's shut down, though. Employees have kept the machines and are ready to restart production if their company is nationalised. I am also thinking of the Famar plant, which produces Nivaquine, a medicine whose active substance is chloroquine. But it is threatened with closure. I am also thinking of Péters Surgical, in Bobigny, which manufactures probes of Motin, indispensable for resuscitation beds. The closure of its production unit is planned for June, not because of a deficit – it realizes incredible profits – but to be relocated to India. However, the needs are such that the employees of this company now produce four times more than in normal time, in order to ensure the delivery of 40,000 probes. If these had missed our resuscitation beds, we would have had even more problems. I wrote to the minister nine months ago about this undertaking. We are talking about requisition, but what are we waiting for to ensure that these companies will continue to produce in France material necessary for our health sovereignty, and to avoid that we find ourselves again in the upues situation that we know today with masks? In 2018, the American group became owner of the largest factory manufacturing masks in France decided to close it to relocate production to China, then Tunisia. The shareholders went as far as cutting machines that allowed the making of 5000 masks per hour to ensure that competition would not use them! I therefore ask you to answer the specific question raised by the amendment: when are you going to requisition and nationalise these companies so that they continue to operate?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u207	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u208	In order to create a recipe to finance the nationalisation of the companies you mentioned, you are proposing the abolition of a reduced domestic tax rate on final electricity consumption – TICFE. On this point, it is up to the Government to answer you. However, as I did yesterday in committee, I stress that the question of nationalisation is not avoided in our debates. On the contrary, we anticipate it, since we abound the special allocation account "State financial contributions" of €20 billion to allow equity or quasi-equity equity investments, or even nationalisations if necessary. It is not up to me to decide which companies will be involved. I am also pleased that the Government has not responded to everything today, as the outcome of the crisis remains unclear. In any case, the elimination of tax expenditures will not solve the problem. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u209	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u210	Same opinion as the rapporteur. With regard to the companies you mention in particular, Mr Coquerel, I do not know enough about the file to provide you with an answer at this moment. You called the Minister of Economy and Finance, and I'll remind him that you're waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u211	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u212	Excuse me, I'm falling naked! We're in the middle of a crisis. We're missing equipment everywhere. It's been weeks for our group and others to question you about these three companies, and you're telling us that you don't know? Last October, I addressed a written question to Mr Le Maire about Péters Surgical, without getting the shadow of an answer. I asked him again in committee, he replied that he did not know. But when will you be? Pardon me, it makes me angry, because you must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that these are not only jobs, but also profitable companies whose closure is only due to the desire to relocate the production unit! I heard the Head of State raise the issue of relocations. It's actually time to put it down! When are you going to ask her about Motin's probes, oxygen canisters or chloroquine, which we may need in a few weeks if she proves to be a good medicine? Your answers are really not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u213	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u214	I agree with Mr Coquerel's remarks. Mr Secretary of State, out of a total of €105 billion foreseen in the contingency plan, once the least revenue has been deducted, there is actually EUR 60 billion left of new expenditure, of which EUR 20 billion, i.e. one third, is destined for the recapitalisation or nationalisation fund. However, on this third of the appropriations, you do not give us any answers. Do these 20 billion really exist? What are you going to do with it? Are you really going to invest them in the French economy? I find it unacceptable that you don't answer us. With regard to the Famar and Luxfer companies, the Socialist and related groups also submitted a bill providing for a nationalization mechanism similar to that used in 1982. The scheme already exists, there is nothing to reinvent: it is a matter of issuing State bonds in exchange for a previously calculated valuation. Frankly, Secretary of State, what are we waiting for? The question is fundamental, be it for oxygen bottles or medicines! If the use of chloroquine is a matter of debate, I thought we all agreed on the need for medicines to be produced in France. So I'm asking you two questions: what are you going to do with the 20 billion? When are you going to activate the nationalization of Famar and Luxfer?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u215	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 433.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u216	It concerns the recording of exceptional expenditure incurred by local authorities, in particular for the acquisition of masks. This is a question that is often asked of us in our ridings. By this appeal amendment, we propose to make the expenditure on the acquisition of masks and protective equipment eligible for the value added tax compensation fund, the VATF.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u218	My answer will be the same as yesterday in committee: since the VATF is supposed to cover investment expenditure, it seems difficult to use it for operating expenditure, even if it is temporary and exceptional. Given that the mechanism is only tolerated by European law, your proposal presents a legal risk. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion, but thank you for bringing this matter to our attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u220	Same opinion. We would like to preserve the contours of eligibility for the FCTVA as defined in the Finance Act for several years, especially since they have recently been improved in terms of maintenance and equipment costs, which remain closer to the investment than the purchase of masks. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment. I would point out that the Government will support the adoption of the rapporteur-general's amendment to lower the VAT rate on masks in order to reduce the cost to buyers. This will also benefit communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u221	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u222	Some communities are asking about the opportunity to acquire masks for capital expenditures, as this section offers a little more flexibility than the operating section. That is another way of formulating the question. Can you give any answers to these communities, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u223	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u224	The inclusion of this expenditure in the investment section would have two interests. On the one hand, this would facilitate and make it more automatic to be eligible for VATF. On this point, the argument remains the same as before. On the other hand, this would allow the expenditure to be amortized over several years. However, even if it is not to be underestimated, the magnitude of the expenditure for a given community does not necessarily justify such a multi-year amortization. Furthermore, as I said, we will support the rapporteur-general's amendment to lower the VAT rate on masks. In addition, a circular issued by the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and the Ministry of Action and Public Accounts allows communities to charge their contribution to the Solidarity Fund on investment expenditure. This scheme is aimed in particular at the regions, which abound the fund to the tune of EUR 500 million. I would also point out, although the case has not yet arisen, that other communities that would like to participate in the solidarity fund could do so. No one has proposed it at this time, knowing that it is a national fund and that it is not possible to target aid in a particular territory. As far as the regions are concerned, the EUR 500 million will be well recorded, on an exceptional basis, as investments. I would add that the imputation of these sums is the subject of a genuine debate. While some officials of elected associations have indeed made the request that you mentioned, Mr Barrot, others, in particular the Secretary-General of the Association of Mayors of France and Presidents of Intercommunalities, wish to see respect for a form of orthodoxy in accounting records, in particular in order to preserve the legibility of accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u225	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u226	In the Greater East region, the elected representatives agreed to set up a fund complementary to the national fund, abounded by the region as well as by each department and intercommunality to the tune of 2 euros per inhabitant – a total of 44 million euros, including also the participation of the Bank of the Territories. Will the amounts paid by departments and intercommunalities be, yes or no, eligible for the VATF?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u227	The question is important!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u228	Is the answer negative, on the grounds that these are not contributions to the national fund? Could you clarify this point, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u229	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u230	I would be happy to clarify it, at the risk that my answer would be unwelcome. The circular I mentioned allows for the inclusion in the investment section of community participation in the national solidarity fund alone – it was a priority request from the regions, which contribute EUR 500 million. In the case of grants – usually in the operating section – the circular explicitly states that they are not eligible for VATF. It would be unusual for a subsidy paid by a community, naturally not subject to VAT, to be eligible for VATF. In short, the regions will be able to invest their participation in the solidarity fund, which will also allow them to amortise it over several years. The same would apply to other communities that would participate in this national fund. However, the circular did not provide for participation in local funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u231	I have before me two sets of identical amendments, Nos 424, 436 and 455, on the one hand, Nos 426, 431 and 458, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Véronique Louwagie has the floor to support Amendment No. 424.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u232	At the same time, I will defend Amendment No 426. These amendments, which we discussed yesterday in committee, are now of a different nature, since the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance last night called on the owners to abandon rents. We propose to amend the tax provisions applicable to the abandonment of debts in favour of companies. This would encourage such abandonments, which businesses need very much, and would prevent the State from having to absorb the payment of these debts, thereby reducing the cost of business support for public finances. These amendments aim to make aid and the abandonment of debts deductible from income, revenue or profit. At present, the deduction is subject to conditions that do not facilitate such abandonments. Amendment No 424 covers all claims, including rents, owed to small businesses. Amendment No 426, on the other hand, only targets the abandonment of rent for a company, regardless of its size.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u233	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 436.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u234	I too will defend the two amendments I tabled, Nos 436 and 431. They aim at the same objective: to lower the debt wall for French companies by encouraging their creditors – whether they are donors, suppliers or financial institutions – to clear this debt. To this end, we propose to make debt waivers deductible. In times of difficulty, in times of war, it is customary to clear debts. It is in this spirit that the Minister of Economy and Finance has asked certain economic sectors – particularly land companies, as he pointed out earlier – to erase some of the debts they hold on businesses. This deductibility is already provided for in some cases. When a company in difficulty enters collective proceedings, the abandonment of a claim by a creditor is already tax deductible. The current economic situation leads us to propose the extension of the scheme. Of course, the aim is to encourage virtuous behaviour. A debt write-off allows the beneficiary to approach recovery under better conditions and avoid bankruptcy. But the goal is also to create solidarity between creditors strong enough to give up debts and the most fragile debtors, who would need this abandonment to survive and restart. Moreover, these amendments would help to reduce the pressure on public finances: if a lessor renounces the rents due from the beneficiaries of the solidarity fund, the State will no longer have to absorb this expenditure. When we discussed these amendments yesterday in committee, our colleagues felt that the proposed arrangements were too broad. We have therefore endeavoured to tighten them. Amendment No 436 targets the beneficiaries of the solidarity fund: only the abandonment of claims to the benefit of TPEs of less than ten employees eligible for the fund would be tax deductible. Amendment No 431, on the other hand, deals with the abandonment of a single type of debt, rent, for the benefit of any undertaking, whatever its size.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u235	I call Mrs Peyrol to support Amendment No. 455.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u236	At the same time, I will defend No. 458. I will not repeat the arguments put forward by my colleagues. I will just say that the amendments have been completed in order to avoid any possible optimisation within the same group, in line with what emerged from yesterday's debate on this subject. Olivia Grégoire, the first signatory of the two amendments, is also very vigilant on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u237	Identical amendments Nos 426, 431 and 458 have already been defended. What is the committee's opinion on these two sets of amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u238	Thank you, Mr Barrot, for addressing this interesting issue yesterday in committee. I then gave an unfavorable opinion on the amendments, because I found that the proposed scheme was too broad: it dealt with all the claims and any company could benefit from them. I thought it was necessary to tighten it up, to avoid possible windfall effects. I note that this has been done, and well done. I thank you, Mrs Louwagie and Mrs Grégoire, for having tabled new amendments to this effect. Personally, I would have preferred that the two restrictions on rents, on the one hand, to the companies benefiting from the solidarity fund, on the other hand, be cumulative. Nevertheless, Amendments Nos 426, 431 and 458, which limit the deductibility to the abandonment of rents granted by the lenders for the benefit of any undertaking, seem satisfactory to me. I therefore express a favourable opinion on these amendments and call for the withdrawal of the other three, Nos 424, 436 and 455.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u239	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u240	The issue was discussed earlier this morning by the Minister of Economy and Finance. We shared the same concerns as the committee about the mechanism proposed yesterday. I therefore associate myself with the thanks extended by the rapporteur-general to the authors of the amendments. The Government also requests the withdrawal of Amendments Nos. 424, 436 and 455 and issues a favourable opinion on Amendments Nos. 426, 431 and 458.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u241	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u242	Amendments Nos 426 and 426 are excellent. I would nevertheless like to have a clarification on the concept of group: will it be defined according to the existence of a common shareholding, or intuitu personae, knowing that the same person sometimes represents the lessor and the company? There are many artisans, traders or small businesses whose lessor is an ICS, subject to income tax or corporate tax. If the company is in difficulty, will it be able to benefit from a rent abandonment, even though it is also owner, indirectly?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u243	The rapporteur-general has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u244	I do not know if this answers your question, but the risk of optimisation within the same group seems to me to be reduced as we have adopted the second set of amendments, which are aimed exclusively at the abandonment of rents granted by the donors. It would have been bigger if we had adopted the first series, which was intended to make all waivers of debts deductible. On the other hand, it would have been very weak if we had limited the scheme both to rents and to companies benefiting from the solidarity fund, as I proposed. I leave it to the authors of the amendments to make any clarifications.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u245	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u246	This provision is likely to encourage owners to give up rents further. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in some departments, particularly in rural areas, there are no land companies. The Minister of Economy and Finance said earlier that the Government was negotiating with the land. In Paris, yes! But this is not the case in my department, the Meuse, where there are none. The auditor who coordinates all of the Meuse's accountants told me yesterday that no rent abandonment had been recorded for all of the department's businesses. He considered that the adoption of an exemption from charges would remove a thorn from traders' feet, but that the important issue was rents. Until it was settled, hundreds of traders in each department would find themselves on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u247	I have before me four amendments, Nos 427, 138, 343 and 326, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Jean-Noël Barrot has the floor to support Amendment No. 427.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u248	This is an amendment calling for overtime, which we also discussed yesterday in committee. It is probably a little early to discuss the recovery plan, but it is clear that in some areas the means to catch up quickly will have to be found. However, the de-socialization and de-socialization of overtime would be a way of encouraging and thanking the workers involved in this effort.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u249	Mr Eric Woerth has the floor to support Amendment No. 138.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u250	It is similar in principle to the previous amendment. Defensive and desocialised overtime is subject to an annual ceiling of EUR 5000. However, in some busy economic operators, employees are now working a lot of overtime. These hours should not be used to apply the ceiling for the duration of the crisis. Mr Barrot's amendment is even more generous, since it foresees not applying the ceiling until the end of 2020. I would like to hear the Government's views on this. Overtime is quite complementary to bonuses, which are a gratuity given to employees to thank them. It is indeed hours worked which the economy needs today and which it will also need tomorrow, hopefully, at the end of the crisis. The EUR 5000 threshold should therefore be removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u251	Mrs Marine Le Pen has the floor to support Amendment No. 343.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u252	I am not going to go into detail because it is exactly the same thing: challenges to make overtime work and to desocialize it. Overtime, especially by caregivers, is not just an extra effort: it is vital in the literal sense because it saves lives, especially by replacing caregivers themselves affected by the disease. A number of reports in the EHPADs have shown the consequences of the absence of a part of the staff due to illness. I really think that is the least we can do, and this is an emergency measure. At one point, it will be necessary to say how the French nation intends to express its lasting gratitude to those who worked during this crisis, whether they are second- or third-line caregivers or employees. For my part, I will propose that the latter be given an additional quarter of retirement, and up to two for the first lines. I repeat that the French nation must express to them in a lasting way the recognition that is ours, and not only through applause or tax exemptions, for allowing us to feed ourselves, to continue rolling and, of course, for saving the lives of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u253	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 326.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u254	It goes exactly the same way as the previous ones: it aims to reward all those who worked much more during this health crisis, and not just public servants. I am thinking in particular of the many people who have taken risks to enable our citizens to continue to live, especially to feed themselves. We all have caregivers in mind, of course, but there are others, for example, even though we talked about it a little later, the cashiers and cashiers of supermarkets, who continued to hold their positions at the beginning of the crisis, despite conditions of work often a little precarious and despite the risks to which they were exposed due to lack of masks or hydro-alcoholic gel. Many of our compatriots have had to work overtime to enable their company to function properly or to compensate for the failures or absences of other employees, whether they have been ill, at risk, or had to take care of their children. It is quite normal to recognise the efforts of these employees and to reward them – let us not be afraid of the word – by challenging and desocializing these overtime, without applying the ceiling of 5000 euros per year. This measure will also have the advantage of supporting purchasing power, which will not be negligible at the end of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u255	What is the committee's opinion on these four amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u256	As I said yesterday in committee, I share the will of the majority of you to value the work, in any case, but especially in the context of this crisis. The deplorable defiance and desocialisation of overtime would in fact benefit 5% of employees, and not the most fragile, to put it clearly. I cannot tell you whether the Government would like, at any time, to remove the ceiling of 5000 euros per year; For my part, I do not believe that this is a priority for the State today. And it is not this point, which is part of the thickness of the trait, but rather the exemption from the employer's burden that you propose, which leads me to give a more frankly unfavourable opinion. Companies that can now maintain their business, which is a good thing, must continue to be subject to employer contributions as such; a removal of these contributions – I am referring only to employer contributions – does not seem justified. For these reasons, I invite you to withdraw your amendments. Otherwise the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u258	The Government also considers that an exemption from employer contributions would not be justified, in any case not as wide an exemption as is proposed by the amendments. On the one hand, the introduction of these amendments will have made it clear that the remuneration for overtime, which will be increased for the hospital civil service, will of course benefit from the exemption under ordinary law, up to a maximum of EUR 5000 per year. The rapporteur-general has said so – we will see at the end of this period if this is to change, but a priori this will not be the case – only 5% of employees usually exceed this ceiling, and they are instead employees with the highest incomes. This debate also points out that the public service premium, which President Woerth has just mentioned, or rather the premiums, since there will be several levels, will, like those of the private sector, be exempt from taxes and social contributions. Indeed, the PLFR provides for this double exemption. As for the introduction of the premium as such, it falls under the regulatory power – the decree is currently being drafted. I therefore call for the amendments to be withdrawn. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u259	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u260	We want these amendments, because of the very paradoxical nature of this crisis: some sectors are obliged to stop their activity when others have to multiply and provide a very high number of overtime. Of course we are thinking of the health sector, but I would also like to mention the logistics, where the number of overtime has exploded, even though they are already commonplace because of the very special nature of this activity. As a result, our truckers often had to drive on Sundays, the prefects having issued exceptional permits for this purpose. As these overtime hours are paid at the scheduled rate for Sunday hours, some may, despite moderate wages, exceed the EUR 5000 threshold. It seems to us essential to reward not only this category of employees, but also others, such as supermarket cashiers. Had these sectors not been successful, some of our compatriots would have had serious food problems. That is the aim of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u261	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u262	We believe that the payment of overtime is not a reward: it is a due. Caregivers mobilized for months to explain how much they were suffering from the lack of overtime pay they were doing without being able to recover them, and that this was one aspect of the lack of investment they were complaining about. The logic is that they should be paid for overtime first. At the same time, encouraging people already at the end of the day and exhausted by work to work overtime does not seem to us to be the right strategy. What will need to be done in the coming weeks and months is to plan for a resumption of activity that will allow as many people as possible to engage in essential activities. Investment and resources will have to be devoted to recruitment, particularly in the hospital sector. In addition, wages will have to be revalued. It is through wage increases and recruitment that the work of employees, workers, agents and agents will be recognized. In this way, labour needs will be met and the activities essential to recovery will be carried out, not by introducing tax and social exemptions, which actually result in a reduction in social wages, including retirement pensions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u263	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u264	Like the rapporteur-general, we continue to be opposed to your proposals to exempt employers, as we were from the outset. On the other hand, I might be in favour of your proposal to remove the EUR 5000 ceiling, but not before the end of the year: it is far too early today to take such a decision. Even if, as the rapporteur-general and the Secretary of State rightly pointed out, today it concerns 5% of employees, it could be a tool to accompany the recovery. It is therefore within the framework of a recovery plan, and not within the framework of these emergency measures, that this should be considered. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that the Ministry of Labour has launched the "Employment Mobilization" platform, which brings together more than 12,000 jobs from the sectors in tension, such as logistics and agri-food, mentioned by Mr Le Fur. In addition, the Government has facilitated the lending of employees between enterprises – the Ministry of Labour's website proposes a model agreement – in order to enable employees who are currently partially unemployed to recover their full salary by going to work in a company that needs labour and thus maintain their purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u265	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-04-17-O1193.u266	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the amending finance bill for 2020. The meeting is adjourned.
