ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u1	The next item is the new reading of the draft law on the extension of Chapters VI to X of Title II of Book II and of Article L. 851-3 of the Code of Internal Security (No. 3433, 3520).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u2	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u3	Three years ago, the National Assembly passed the Act to Strengthen Internal Security and Combat Terrorism, known as the SILT Act. It was then a matter of leaving the state of emergency, because it was not intended to constitute a permanent state. It was also a matter of maintaining a very demanding level of security for the French, as the threat remains, it still remains, and the fight against terrorism, a priority of the Government's action. To this end, SILT has created new, adapted tools that have ensured both the effectiveness of counter-terrorism action and the preservation of freedoms. We are all aware, as I know, of the extremely high level of threat that continues to pose to our country. The terrorist attack on the former premises of Charlie Hebdo, Conflans-Sainte-Honorine and Nice show, if it were still necessary, that our efforts must not relax and that we must continue to act with the utmost determination against terrorism. Since October 2013, there have been 20 attacks on national territory. But it should be added that, since 2017, thirty-two attacks have been thwarted by the services, one of which was recently in early 2020. I therefore take this opportunity to commend the effective work of our intelligence services, our police and our gendarmes, who, every day, carry out exceptional field work to identify threats, track dangerous individuals and jeopardize their deadly plans. As a result of the SILT Act, these services continued to have an effective and responsive legislative framework after the end of the 2017 state of emergency. The administrative authority – prefect or ministry of the interior, as the case may be – has been given new powers, strictly proportionate to the state of the threat, always under the control of the judge and with the sole aim of preventing terrorist acts. These included the possibility of establishing protective perimeters to ensure the security of a place or event, the closure of a place of worship in which ideas inciting or apologies for terrorist acts were held or circulated, the imposition of individual administrative control and surveillance measures – the MICAS – against individuals who pose a serious threat to security and public order, and the possibility of seeking permission from the judicial judge to visit a place frequented by such individuals. The impact assessment of this bill presents in detail an initial assessment of the implementation of these measures. Without going back in depth, I still want to stress the use that has been made of these new tools. As at 13 November 2020, 592 perimeters of protection had been established and 8 places of worship had been closed; 353 individual administrative control and monitoring measures had been notified, of which 63 remained active to date, and 286 house visits had been carried out. These provisions have always been used in a targeted manner and under the supervision of the judge. In accordance with Article L. 22-10-1 of the Internal Security Code, established by Article 5 of the SILT Act, Parliament was informed without delay of the implementation of each of these provisions. An evaluation report on the implementation of the Act was also made available annually. Similarly, the Government has made reasonable use of the so-called "algorithm" technique. Thus, since 2015, three automated processing processes have been authorized by the Prime Minister, after favourable advice, of course, from the National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques. The parliamentary delegation to intelligence was made the recipient of a classified confidential defence report which describes the nature of the operational contribution of these various automated treatments: each of them allowed to detect contacts between individuals carrying a terrorist threat, to obtain information on the location of individuals related to this threat, to update the behaviour of individuals known to the intelligence services and requiring further investigation, to improve the knowledge of the services on how to proceed with individuals of the terrorist movement. The measures proposed to you today to extend the application are therefore essential operational tools for the specialized counter-terrorism services. These tools have been used under the careful supervision of the judicial judge and the administrative judge, and for some of them, after the advice of the National Intelligence Technology Control Commission, which the Government has always followed. As you know, they are the subject of a permanent exchange with Parliament, in the form of real-time information and regular evaluation, which the Government has always strictly respected. These mechanisms have shown their relevance in preventing the threat of terrorism, but it is important, on such fundamental issues, that the balance between French freedom and the fight against terrorism is balanced in order to ensure their security, to be able to discuss and improve the texts further. To perpetuate these arrangements now would be to miss the opportunity to adapt them so that they best meet the needs of the services while respecting the balance that led to their adoption here. The Government, in two annual reports, reported to Parliament on the implementation of the administrative police measures. He also sent him a report on the application of the algorithm technique on 30 June. Prior to the outbreak of the health crisis, he also planned to submit to Parliament, before the summer, a bill to engage with you in a discussion on the implementation of these measures. This discussion would also have provided an opportunity to discuss possible adaptations to our legal framework in the face of changing threats; The intelligence services were ready to do so, as were the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Armed Forces and the Government as a whole. But the national mobilization made necessary by the management of the health crisis has been an obstacle, as the context does not allow for a calm debate in each chamber of Parliament. In addition to this epidemic, the Court of Justice of the European Union handed down its decision on 6 October on the regime for the retention of data by telecommunications operators. National courts will have to draw all the consequences of this European case law. We will need to be able to shed some light on Parliament and discuss with it the potential consequences of this in legislation. The subjects we are talking about here are important subjects for the security of the French, but they also concern fundamental freedoms; They therefore deserve to be discussed with all the necessary lights. Thus, given the sensitivity and complexity of the provisions, it seemed appropriate for the Government to provide for a discussion on the SILT Act by 31 July 2021 and on the Intelligence Act by 31 December 2021 at the latest. In any case, the extension of the experiment does not prevent us, and does not prevent the services, from working. Prefects, internal security forces and intelligence services continue and will continue to use the tools they unanimously consider necessary for their action. The Government's efforts to combat terrorism were very strong. Aware of the prevalence of this threat since 2017 and at the request of the President of the Republic, the Government has worked with great determination to strengthen the various counter-terrorism mechanisms. We have done so, with the support of Parliament, by continuing to increase the resources made available to anti-terrorism services, including intelligence services. A total of 1,000 additional posts have been created since the election of the President of the Republic. The investment and operating budgets of the services have also been the subject of an unprecedented effort. DGSI – the Directorate-General for Internal Security – for example, has almost doubled since 2015. The fight against terrorism requires a total mobilization of us. Under the authority of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, with the commitment of all the security forces and intelligence services, with the support of the judiciary, we will conduct this fight tirelessly. We will never give up tracking down the enemies of the Republic who attack our way of life and our values by terror: secularism, freedom of expression, freedom of conscience. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] It is because of our need for efficiency, but also because of the fact that the parliamentary debate is as well informed as possible, that I introduce this prorogation bill on behalf of the Government. It is also an opportunity for me to thank, on behalf of Interior Minister Gérald Darmanin and on my own behalf, the members of the Law Committee, but also those of the parliamentary delegation to intelligence and those of the joint fact-finding mission on the assessment of the law of 24 July 2015 on intelligence, for the quality of the work carried out in common for several months. Finally, it is an opportunity for me to express to you the hope that this joint work will continue, as important as it is, in the fight against terrorism, that we will act together in a spirit of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u4	I call Mr Didier Paris, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u5	We are here again to examine this text, which aims to extend the effects, on the one hand, of the administrative police measures provided for in Articles 1 to 4 of the so-called SILT Act of 30 October 2017, and, on the other hand, the use of the so-called "algorithmic" intelligence technique provided for by the Act of 24 July 2015. Of course, the context for this new reading is very special, just after the heinous attacks of Samuel Paty in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine and Vincent Loquès, Simone Barreto Silva and Nadine Devillers in Nice. How not to have an emotional thought for them, their families and their loved ones. And let us not forget the attack on Vienna, which proves, if necessary, that the fight against terrorism is not only French but also international, at least European. This bill raises the issue of the value of our legal arsenal and our ability to fight terrorism, whatever its form, which is clearly evolving. At this stage, the Government is preventing a return to a state of emergency. The Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, has told us on several occasions, explaining very clearly that the threat is strong – as you have also pointed out, Madam Deputy Minister – but that it remains diffuse and that therefore nothing would justify a state of emergency. We must therefore continue to act within the framework of the common law, which is supplemented, on a provisional basis, by the two texts which we envisage being extended. The real question is: are these mechanisms strong enough to respond to the current challenges and allow us to wait for the substantive parliamentary debate necessary to improve them? With regard to the SILT law, the answer is undoubtedly positive. At the operational level, the measures are clearly working. It would be superfluous to take up the figures you have given, Madam Deputy Minister, on the closures of places of worship, house visits and security perimeters. The measures also work from the point of view of the texts: the Minister of the Interior indicated, at his hearing before the Law Committee, that the legal framework of the administrative police was sufficient to wait for a more in-depth law next year. It should also be recalled, as you have done, Madam Deputy Minister, that these measures are subject to rigorous parliamentary scrutiny, reinforced on the basis of Article 5 of the SILT Act. On this point, I refer to the annual implementation report of our colleagues Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairman of the Law Committee, Raphaël Gauvain and Éric Ciotti. They regularly stress, at the meetings of the commission, the quality and effectiveness of the work carried out by the police services, as well as their sparing and reasoned use – both adjectives are important – of the tools at their disposal. It is clear, however, that we must fight, beyond police operations, against political Islam, which fights the Republic, and ideologically organize and arm the perpetrators of attacks. That is the purpose of the bill, which I believe will be presented to the Council of Ministers on December 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u6	Therefore, at this stage, contrary to the Senate's position that the legislation should be sustained immediately, subject to some minor modifications, we propose that you return to the text that we voted on at first reading by extending the application of the SILT legislation until July 31, 2021. This is undoubtedly an ambitious date in terms of deadlines, especially in the current context of a covid -19 pandemic, which is shaking all our agendas, but it is imperative. It must enable us to hold a real substantive debate among ourselves and, no doubt, to improve the text before finally incorporating provisions of this importance into our common law. With regard to intelligence techniques, in particular the three so-called "algorithmic" techniques to which the Deputy Minister referred – this is a real-time automated search for data from telephones or access providers – the answer is the same, even if the temporality will be different. The improvement of the control of data exchange is, especially since the waves of attacks in 2015, a major issue, first of all to trace the judicial tracks – the example of the Bataclan is significant, since the seizure of a telephone has allowed to trace a number of tracks – but also to detect more or less powerful or less weak signals of radicalisation, and above all to intervene before the passages to deed, which is absolutely fundamental. This struggle, of course, involves the constant mobilisation of the investigators, who must be in sufficient numbers, the minister delegate recalled. The Prime Minister recently announced the strengthening of PHAROS – the platform for harmonising, analysing, overlapping and guiding alerts. It also requires an increase in the capacity to access contact and content data; In this area, we can rely on the information report "National Security and Freedoms: The Legal Framework for Intelligence, Today and Tomorrow", recently presented by Guillaume Larrivé, President of the Information Mission, and our two colleagues Loïc Kervran and Jean-Michel Mis, Rapporteurs. We also need to ensure that our intelligence systems are adapted; Laurent Nunez, the head of the national coordination of intelligence and the fight against terrorism, will be instrumental in this regard. But the fight against terrorism, including through the application of these methods, is made particularly difficult by several elements: increasing the volume of trade and channels; the problem of encryption of couriers, which are always so complex to "break", as they say; Dependence on the responses of requisitions addressed to multiple operators; Finally, the difficulty of tracing unknown and unlisted individuals – the example of Nice is unfortunately the expression. In this context, as you also said, Madam Minister Delegate, the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 6 October, in the Privacy International case, on the one hand, and in the joint cases La Quadrature du Net and French Data Network, on the other hand, are not, it must be acknowledged, without a certain difficulty, in any case a difficulty of analysis. The Court held that "Union law precludes national rules imposing on a provider of electronic communications services, for the purpose of combating infringements in general or safeguarding national security, the widespread and undifferentiated transmission or storage of traffic and location data". This major point may present us with difficulties, including the way in which French intelligence will be likely to evolve in the future. The Court admits, however, and is pleased, that "in situations where a Member State faces a serious threat to national security which proves to be real and present or foreseeable, the latter may derogate from the obligation to ensure the confidentiality of data relating to electronic communications by imposing, through legislative measures, a general and undifferentiated retention of such data for a period of time limited to the strictly necessary". That is the framework within which we find ourselves. It adds: "Such interference in fundamental rights must be accompanied by effective guarantees and controlled by an independent judge or administrative authority. We are perfectly in a position to meet this legitimate requirement of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Everyone will understand that these judgments will have to be thoroughly analysed before our discussions, including the way in which the Council of State will interpret them in the coming months, as they follow on from priority constitutional issues and must therefore be incorporated into our domestic legal order. In addition to the fact that we still have to look at the improvement of our device so that the technique does not concern only individuals already identified – I do not come back to it – and that it allows us not only to know who has communicated with whom, which is particularly insufficient under the present conditions, but also to access the content of the conversations. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These issues, of course, raise many questions, including respect for individual freedoms, and cannot be resolved quickly or in too short a time frame. That is why the Senate has extended the 2015 Intelligence Act until the end of 2021, and I propose that you follow this position of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u7	I have received from Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u8	This has been made clear by the Minister Delegate, we are here to respond to the request for the extension of the measures of the law to strengthen internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as the SILT Act. I shall start by evacuating an argument that no one, I hope, will have at heart to use: the motion of prior rejection that I defend does not mean that the Group of the European People's Party wishes to disarm the country in the face of terrorism. But we believe, precisely because the terrorist threat exists, that we must take the time for a reasoned debate here in Parliament on the techniques we use to deal with terrorist acts. The arguments of authority such as those that have been opposed to us since 2017 are not relevant: on the one hand, there are not those who would be lucid, the real defenders of the population, and, on the other hand, those who would have a lax attitude. I say this, as the rapporteur has just said, with the memory of Mr Samuel Paty, Mrs Simone Barreto Silva, Mrs Nadine Devillers and Mr Vincent Loquès, who have fallen recently. We must have a discussion here about how the Republic should defend itself against those who attack it. Let us say that these recent attacks were carried out while the so-called SILT law is in force. In this way, one could adopt an opposite reasoning to yours by considering that, despite this law, presented as particularly effective, we are not yet in a position to defend ourselves against a certain type of attack. This is linked in particular to the lack of human resources, a problem which serves as a guide to the criticisms often expressed by La France insoumise. In the case of "the case" Samuel Paty – if you will allow me to call him that – the PHAROS platform was badly understaffed. The person who carried out the attack had been reported there, and thus found, for several months. But concretely, in fact, only thirty-one officials had a duty to monitor what was happening on social networks. Fortunately, since then, the Minister of the Interior has decided to recruit an additional 100 people. We can see that there is first a need for human resources, and not adopting this law would not mean that we would disarm ourselves against terrorism. There are already legislative mechanisms to deal with it; Often, those on the ground tell us that it is concrete means and adequate material that are lacking, that legislative inflation does not address the problem. Legislative inflation is a political response to say: "Our predecessors have done nothing, let us act. But reality is more complex, much more complex!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u9	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u10	It deserves more than a political and political response, which does not always adequately address the problem. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, this Act contains exceptional measures. But we must, precisely when the Republic is under attack, be anxious not to weaken it. We must avoid ourselves caricature it by presenting it as a lax Republic, which we should deprive of some of its fundamental principles in order to confront those who would justly call them into question. This is no time to doubt her. The text we are discussing is part of this legislative inflation, therefore in continuity: in the last thirty years, sixteen laws have already been adopted against terrorism, plus thirty-two laws to combat crime. We see that, despite all these laws, invariably presented as the definitive answer to our difficulties, the problem is still not resolved. What is the problem then, when human means are not enough? For example, the Deputy Minister referred to the protection perimeters set up by the prefects. However, the task of monitoring and monitoring the SILT law, set up by the Senate and which presented its conclusions on February 26, 2020, tells us that, for lack of means, the control of the perimeters of protection is often entrusted to private companies and not to the police or gendarmerie: only 12 per cent of them are under the responsibility of police forces. However, I think all of us believe that the intervention of police officers, who are skilled in the profession, is preferable to that of mere private agents who, for reasons that everyone can understand, do not have the necessary skills to ensure truly quality safety. Another example, a study tells us that between 2017 and 2019, out of 149 home visits, only one was able to foil a terrorist attack – and everyone considers that in this single case, human intelligence could very well have achieved the same result, since the potential terrorist had consulted a tutorial on the Internet to learn how to manufacture the material necessary for his act. This exceptional system of home visits has in no way brought us any significant results. The so-called "algorithm" intelligence techniques referred to by the rapporteur have not produced any significant results to date, quite the contrary. We are therefore surprised by the logic of the text that you are presenting to us: "These techniques have not worked well, but we must go further to make them work, even if we do not yet have significant elements to guarantee their effectiveness. In truth, no study allows us to draw up a balance sheet at this stage, but an article from the World of October 2019 explained, citing a source of the Ministry of the Interior, that, out of fifty-nine foiled attacks, fifty-eight had been made possible by the intervention of human sources, and by no means by the use of these algorithms. What a sad record! You know our proposals, which I reaffirm at this rostrum: we are in favour of targeted repression and, above all, a strengthening of human intelligence, the development of infiltration, the strengthening of the workforce and the improvement of the working conditions of the law enforcement forces. Our doctrine is based on a rather simple triptych: prevention, repression, reparation. We have consistently proposed it, in particular by calling for a law allowing the recruitment of an additional 10,000 police officers and gendarmes; I was also saying now that we are asking for more staff for the PHAROS system, and I welcome the fact that the Minister of the Interior has finally taken the necessary decision. Mrs. Deputy Minister, you asked me about a comment I made this morning on the radio in connection with what happened to young Mila. Since you are in front of me, I insist: the case is certainly shocking – I have already pronounced myself on the merits, with such a force that I find it curious that you have not heard it – but we must above all strengthen the mechanism for sanctioning certain interventions on social networks. I consider that your role as a member of the Government is not only to tell us that there is something shocking about this, which all French people approve; you must show that the perpetrators of these threats are punished as soon as possible, in order to produce a deterrent effect. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] What is dissuasive is not the systematic comments of a minister delegated in the media; It's the fact that the culprits are punished. Rather than mediating business, let us show how anyone who threatens one of our fellow citizens will be repressed. Be convinced that I have spoken on the substance, and I do not like – let me tell you clearly – that you imply that I do not do so when one of our fellow citizens is threatened. This kind of widespread suspicion, which aims to put suspicion on your opponents and to make them the accomplices of assassins, is not pleasant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u11	What does it have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u12	Let's stay there, if you don't mind, but it's the same subject! Let us have rational attitudes in this debate. In any event, I consider that, so far, the so-called SILT law has not proved its effectiveness. Due to the lack of resources that accompany it, the system does not produce any real results. The recent attacks show that we are facing a very complex phenomenon that deserves much more than a legislative overbidding, including the trade and diplomatic relations we have with some countries that are sometimes linked to those that hit us. I will not extend myself further to this rostrum, but we could imagine adopting other international relations, according to a geopolitical logic different from that of selling arms to countries that, through certain families that make up their governing apparatus, do not hesitate to arm those who come to attack us. I am therefore critical of this text, and the motion to reject it has given me the opportunity to say so. We will repeat it tomorrow: beware of the legislative overbidding on security issues, because it has proved its ineffectiveness! Public freedoms are important things; do not make our fellow citizens believe that they are too broad, too used and not sufficiently constrained by the law, and that it is by inventing new legislation that we will provide answers. Our criticism of this text is in line with the one we will be demonstrating tomorrow with regard to the proposal for a law on global security. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We will restrict the freedoms of the French and prevent a citizen's control over the work of the police, while, to be effective, the police demand human resources in intelligence and infiltration: men and women who know how to speak foreign languages, understand conversations and are able to decode the meaning of a particular word, is what is effective against terrorism. That is why I defended this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u13	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u14	My dear colleague, I believe – because we have had this debate on several occasions – that you completely ignore the SILT law, the measures it understands and the parliamentary work carried out under this law. If you looked at the parliamentary monitoring work, if you read the regular reports of the Law Commission and the annual report of the Minister of the Interior on the application of the SILT law, you would see that the perimeters of protection allow us to protect the French on a daily basis and to ensure, when the country is not in a health crisis, the holding of sporting, festive events and the securing of international events! If you look at the work we do, you would see that a number of dangerous people are subject to MICAS, the individual administrative control and surveillance measures, which only exist under SILT law. However, you propose to delete these measures. If you looked at the work we are doing, you would realize that the action of the Minister of the Interior, following the horrific attacks of the last few weeks, is useful because, precisely, it relies on the home visits provided for in the SILT law! If the SILT law did not exist, if these four measures did not exist, the question could have arisen of returning to the state of emergency provided for in the 1955 Act. The question did not arise because we can apply SILT law. As you claim that we are leaving the rule of law, all these measures, without exception, were validated by the Constitutional Council, seized ab initio in 2017 and then on the occasion of a multitude of QPCs – priority issues of constitutionality. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] SILT law is useful because it protects the French. You want to delete it, which would be a gravissim error.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u15	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, the floor is for Mrs Constance Le Grip.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u16	The Group of the European People's Party will vote resolutely against the motion for a preliminary rejection which you defended, Mr Alexis Corbière, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Don't you mind, for us, your motion to reject beforehand is a motion for the disarmament of the Republic. Of course, you stressed the importance of human intelligence. You have even, on two occasions, I believe, insisted on the importance of infiltration as a method of intelligence. This should be noted because it seems to me that this is a first for a representative of your political family – we may have an opportunity to talk about it again in the days and weeks to come. I would like to recall that, for our part, we have always voted for laws strengthening the arsenal of counter-terrorism. Of course, the SILT law has shown some limitations, and we have pointed out those that we believe are important in terms of house arrest and administrative searches. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] However, given the intensity and magnitude of the current terrorist threat, this law has the merit of being in existence as it contains, in our view, a range of instruments to be extended. Given the gravity of the current threat to our country, we will vote resolutely against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u17	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u18	The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote against the motion for a preliminary rejection because, if we could not extend the SILT law, we would find ourselves faced with a great technical difficulty and we could not even have the debate on the overall balance sheet of this text, which you wish, Mr Corbière. The ongoing evaluations will complement the partial data available to us. The extension of the SILT law will give us an opportunity to have a clear debate in this House, which will allow us to consider ways of improving or to review measures that have not produced the desired effects. We will also have to take into account the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, as the rapporteur has said, and I will return to that in the general discussion. We must make sure that we do not commit an odd act so that we do not, once again, encounter a constitutional difficulty in the context of a QPC. For all these reasons, we need time. We are therefore under an obligation to extend the SILT law for a short period of time, so that we can then put all the terms of the debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u19	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u20	My dear colleague Corbière, you have called for a reasoned debate on counter-terrorism measures. It is necessary, indeed: it has taken place in the past years, we have it again now, and it is very good that it continues. The Socialist and related group agrees with you on the need to commit additional resources. We regret the downsizing and suppression of field intelligence before 2012. We also believe that justice must be much more responsive and able to respond in a timely manner that is expected by citizens. However, without giving in to demagogy, we must say that no mechanism, alas, will protect us from attacks. These tragedies must lead us to question our legislation and regulations, but we cannot conclude that the SILT provisions should not be extended. Our group will approve this extension, which will allow us to have a comprehensive assessment, produced by parliamentary scrutiny. We will thus be able to distinguish between measures which may be included in the ordinary law and those which are too infringing on freedoms, in relation to the objectives sought, to be included in it. The motion to reject seems to us frankly useless at this stage of drafting the text, it will not gather our votes.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u21	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u22	The Group of the European People's Party will not vote in favour of the motion for rejection because we believe that the SILT law must be extended to ensure the safety of the French. Like our colleague Corbière, we support the idea of always increasing human resources in the field of intelligence. That is absolutely essential, he is right to stress it – and that is what the Government is doing, and it will amplify the movement. Although they still need to be improved, we believe that the three algorithms are producing results and making a useful contribution to the effectiveness of intelligence policy. By detecting contacts between individuals with threats, they have identified some of them. We believe that we need to continue and amplify the work. We shall therefore vote against this motion for a preliminary rejection, wishing to enter into the lively debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u23	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u24	The questions put by our colleague Alexis Corbière are not illegitimate, even if a rejection motion is probably not appropriate to the objective he pursues. At a time of increasing terrorist threats and even murderous attacks, we are constantly asking ourselves the question of the effectiveness of our arsenal of struggle, legal and material. If our colleague Corbière's objective was that, I would have even gone so far as to be quite in favour of his approach. However, I find that it goes a little bit quickly by disqualifying certain measures of the SILT Act, which fall within the scope of the derogation and the exception. In fact, the real question, we will have to have at the end of the extension period: should these emergency measures be part of the common law or should they remain in the order of the exception? The aim is to strike a balance between public freedoms and the effectiveness of our counter-terrorism mechanisms. In the absence of an extension of the SILT Act, a safe state of emergency would have to be restored. However, the concomitance of two states of emergency – health and safety – could pose constitutional problems. In the view that the provisions of the SILT Act should therefore be extended, the IDU and independent group would not vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u25	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u26	In the face of the terrorist threat, after the terrible attacks that our country has experienced – I have a thought for all the relatives of the victims – we must act firmly. Acting firmly against terrorism requires that it be done in accordance with the separation of powers and by preserving the fundamental rights that form the foundation of the Republic. In the face of terrorist danger, we need to act effectively. However, the national representation is requested to extend this law without any detailed and comprehensive assessment of our legislative tools to combat terrorism. That is why the GDR Group will vote in favour of the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u27	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u28	My dear colleague Corbière, it is thanks to the SILT law that we are not in a safe state of emergency. It is thanks to this extension that we have this debate in the Chamber, as we have already had, as it was in the Senate: Parliament is therefore well seized. Each measure has been subject to review by the Constitutional Council, as has been pointed out on several occasions, in particular as a result of priority constitutional issues. Your motion of rejection is a motion of denial. You are in denial with your dogmatic criticisms and your refusal to see all the work accomplished. You're in denial because the numbers are unequivocal. You are in denial because our intelligence forces have been on the rise since 2017. The seriousness of the situation should be reversed and political postures avoided. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The La République group on the move will, of course, vote against the motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u29	It's so easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u30	In the general debate, Mr Guillaume Larrivé spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u31	It has been nearly ten years since a war of conquest was declared to us, on our national soil, by the Islamist enemy. In taking the floor again in our Chamber, I would like to reiterate how much the necessary legal and operational rearmament of France must be carried out consistently, competently and seriously, refusing to give way to outsiders and simplisticness. So I have no difficulty in approving this technical bill, which is only a transitional text. But above all, as chairman of the mission to assess the legal framework of the intelligence services, along with my colleagues Loïc Kervran and Jean-Michel Mis, I would like to indicate in which direction I believe I should be prepared for the future bill without delay. We must, first of all, preserve the French intelligence architecture, which was re-founded in two major stages: first, in 2007, under the leadership of President Nicolas Sarkozy, with the creation of a genuine intelligence community led by the national coordinator at the Elysée, in the light of the parliamentary delegation to intelligence; Then, in 2015, at the initiative of the Head of Government Manuel Valls, with the overhaul of intelligence techniques, which can only be mobilised, at the request of a service, by an individual decision of the Prime Minister, after the advice of an independent administrative authority, the CNCTR – National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques. Thus reorganized and duly controlled, our intelligence services have demonstrated their ability to anticipate and obstruct: for the past five years, France has, alas, been hit by twenty attacks, but it is in total sixty and one plans of attack that have been foiled since 2013, thanks to the coordinated action of the services. In this regard, the policy conducted since 2017 has been a continuation of the two previous quinquennats. I am convinced that this republican and operational continuity, which honours the government parties, must be pursued without weakness. It is in this spirit, second, that we will have to equip our services with the new legal, technological and human resources necessary for their action. It seems to me urgent that the algorithm technique, which we are about to extend, be quickly enriched in order to be finally applied to the internet, by analyzing the addresses of the sites, that is, the URLs, and not just the telephone data. This extension to URLs should also apply to the collection of real-time connection data targeted at individuals directly linked to a terrorist threat, such as jihadists leaving prison. Similarly, I believe that we will soon have to allow our services to train artificial intelligence systems from real data. At the same time, continued investment in intelligence human resources is vital. DGSE – Directorate-General for External Security – has won 1300 agents in ten years. At the end of this quinquennium, 2000 additional officers will have joined the DGSI. I am pleased that the latest financial laws have allowed this first development, but they will have to be completed: in addition to the recruitment of analysts and technicians at the DGSI, we will have to significantly increase our infiltration capacity on national soil, in territories and groups that pose a threat to security, as some allied countries, such as Israel, have been able to develop in recent decades. I come to my third and final point. Our national efforts to continue to increase the effectiveness of our intelligence services would be in vain if they were weakened by the harmful effects of risky European case law. In its decision of 6 October last, the Court of Justice of the European Union makes the retention of connection data by telecommunications operators random and fragmented. In doing so, the Luxembourg Court undermines the ability of our services to collect and analyse this data, at the risk of making them deaf and blind. This is not acceptable: it seems essential that an initiative be taken at the highest level of the Union, i.e. the European Council, in order to recall that national security is the sole responsibility of the States, as provided for in Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union. We do not have to transpose into French law the judgment of the CJEU; We will have to oppose it, in the national interest. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In the present circumstances, nothing should hinder France's ability to fight the Islamist enemy. Our intelligence services are our first bulwark to anticipate and counter the threat. It is therefore the duty of both Parliament and the Government to strengthen them without delay. Rearming the rule of law to defeat Islamism is the struggle of our generation. Let us be constant and, above all, let us not waste any time.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u32	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u33	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u34	As we have just commemorated the attacks of 13 November 2015 and as our country has recently been hit by new terrorist attacks, we are measuring the extent to which this threat is significant: it can strike at any time and anywhere. Our law enforcement forces must fight against an invisible, moving and capable enemy who can adapt to the measures taken to combat it. In order to deal with this situation, and following the end of the state of emergency, the legislator adopted, on 30 October 2017, several measures aimed at strengthening internal security. New provisions have added to the list of counter-terrorism instruments provided for in Title II of Book II of the Code of Internal Security. Four new chapters have been inserted, respectively, relating to perimeters of protection, the closure of places of worship, individual administrative control and surveillance measures, and home visits and seizures. The exceptional nature of these measures justified the fact that they were by nature temporary. As a result, Parliament had limited their application to 31 December 2020. Through this bill, the Government is asking the legislator for an extension, as the current health conditions do not allow Parliament to consider a specific bill before the end of the year. This extension would also permit the review and adjustment of the individual administrative control and surveillance measures, the MICAS, provided for in articles L. 228-1 et seq. of the Code of Internal Security. Article 1 of the text was thus intended to extend these measures for a period of one year, which the National Assembly reduced to seven months. This shortening is justified by the fact that the health crisis must not delay more than reason the essential debate on the surveillance and prevention of terrorism. Similarly, section 2 of the Bill is intended to extend the intelligence measures included in section L. 851-3 of the Internal Security Code by the Act of 24 July 2015. These provisions open the possibility of requiring automated processing to detect connections that could reveal a terrorist threat on the networks of electronic communications operators and Internet service providers, without, however, first identifying the persons concerned. This identification is authorized by the Prime Minister only after the threat has been identified and after the advice of the National Intelligence Technology Control Commission, the CNCTR. Beyond the extension of this text, the intelligence measures it contains will require a debate in Parliament, as part of a broader reform. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will take their full part. For the time being, as has already been said, it is up to us to take into account the most recent case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Indeed, in several important judgments of 6 October 2020, the Commission confirmed its so-called "Tele2" judgment of December 2016, which I had already mentioned in this Chamber. If Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Treaty on European Union provides that the Union "respects the essential functions of the State" and that "national security is the responsibility of each Member State", European Union law precludes any national legislation authorizing, for the purpose of combating crime, a general and undifferentiated retention of all traffic data and location data of all subscribers and users of electronic means of communication. Accordingly, the Directive of 12 July 2002 on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector, interpreted in the light of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, remains applicable, in particular Article 15(1) thereof. It prohibits national regulations allowing authorities to access retained data, if such access is not limited solely for the purpose of combating crime. With regard to this last point, the judgments of 6 October last gave three clarifications which we shall have to respect. First, the Court considers that, when a Member State faces a serious and real threat – present or foreseeable – to national security, the Directive does not prevent it from requiring service providers to keep traffic and location data on a general and undifferentiated basis. The Court states that the decision providing for this injunction, for a strictly necessary period, must then be subject to effective control by a court or an independent administrative entity, the decision of which will have binding effect. The purpose of this procedure is to verify the existence of the threat as well as compliance with the safeguards provided for; Under such conditions only, the Directive allows automated processing of data of users of electronic means of communication. Secondly, the Court adds that the 2002 Directive does not preclude legislative measures allowing the use of targeted and strictly time-limited storage of traffic and location data and IP addresses attributed to the source of a communication, where situations requiring such retention occur beyond the legal time limits: the need to elucidate serious criminal offences or infringements of national security found or reasonably suspected of exist. Thirdly and lastly, the Court considers that the 2002 Directive allows national legislators to require providers of electronic communications services to collect certain data in real time, including traffic and location data, where this collection is limited to persons suspected of being involved in terrorist activities. This compendium must also be subject to prior review by an independent court or administrative authority. [[The rapporteur applauds]] These are the conditions to which we will be particularly attached in the forthcoming decision-making process.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u35	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u36	The provisions that we are called upon to extend are derived, respectively, from the Act of 24 July 2015, which recasts the intelligence services, and from the SILT Act of 30 October 2017. When we introduced these provisions in 2015, as part of the state of emergency, we wanted them to be temporary. The SILT law has taken them over. These measures allow for the establishment of perimeters of protection, the closure of places of worship, individual administrative control and surveillance measures, as well as visits and seizures, with the aim of carrying out the monitoring required by legitimate security concerns. According to the report of the parliamentary delegation to intelligence, they have demonstrated their usefulness. They are subject to parliamentary scrutiny. We are, of course, waiting for a comprehensive assessment of this to be made in order to decide on the follow-up, after 2021. Their extension does not give rise to any particular legal difficulties. It clearly reflects the context of widespread threat to the nation and the need to retain these tools at this stage. Recall that the Council of State, in its opinion delivered on 4 May 2020 on this bill, had concluded that the prorogation did not require comments and noted that the measures concerned had since their adoption been examined by the Constitutional Council – which issued two decisions in February and March 2018 – and by the Council of State itself, ruling on the dispute. The chapters in debate were also supplemented by the law of 23 March 2019 on programming 2018-2022 and justice reform. As the rapporteur has pointed out, priority issues of constitutionality remain to be considered by the Constitutional Council, the conclusions of which should, where appropriate, be incorporated into positive law. The disagreement between the Senate and the Assembly, which prevented the Joint Joint Committee from reaching an agreement, relates exclusively to clause 1 of the bill, i.e. the four provisions that I have already mentioned – perimeters of protection, etc. The National Assembly considered this to be a "crossing" text – to take your word, Mr. Rapporteur – submitted to Parliament pending the substantive draft which will be presented to it in 2021. On the contrary, the Senate wanted to perpetuate these measures and make some adjustments that did not significantly alter the nature of the text. Of which act. The Socialist and related group, whose position I expressed in my explanation of vote on the motion to reject beforehand, has made the choice, since the first reading, not to oppose the extension of these exceptional measures to combat terrorism. However, we will be particularly vigilant in the future, that is to say, in the drafting of the future law, which will be a long-term one. We will, of course, ensure that fundamental rights are respected, that the exception remains exceptional and that Parliament remains regularly informed of the application of such measures and their relevance. I will conclude by recalling that measures against freedoms cannot remain in force for too long and can only be applied if they are strictly proportionate to the objective of combating terrorism. Parliament is consulted for the purpose of deciding whether they should be extended. If it would certainly have been useful to take stock of them, since their extension is limited in time, we will be responsible and will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u37	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u38	France is facing the threat of Islamist terrorism to our security. Its objective is to strike to the heart of the Republic: schools, teachers, police, artists or journalists, places of worship as well as places of celebration – all those who live anonymously and freely their lives in our country. Beyond the barbaric violence he exerts, it is to our way of life and our humanistic and universal values that his deadly ideology is attacked.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u40	The fight is not new, but it is in intensity that calls for increased vigilance and the resolute and sustainable deployment of new means of action by the State. For the battle will be long; It will even be difficult. It demands composure in trial and ability to remain united as a nation. We will prevail by maintaining the strength of this unity and of our rule of law. [[The Deputy Minister bows]] We know, Madam Deputy Minister, how engaged you are, alongside the Minister of the Interior, in the fight for the Republic and against terrorism, both with strong characters, with courage and determination, and with a course. It is in this sense that you have announced a bill strengthening secularism and republican principles, which will soon be presented to the Council of Ministers. And that is what you and the Minister of the Interior are looking for by giving our administration, particularly our police and intelligence services, the tools necessary to prevent attacks. The Government has been mobilized since the first day. Thus, under his leadership, the legislator adopted in 2017 a number of counter-terrorism mechanisms on a temporary basis. Article 1 of the draft law was originally intended to extend them for a period of one year, reduced to seven months by the National Assembly. Four types of measures are concerned: protection perimeters to ensure the safety of major events; the closure of places of worship; individual administrative control and surveillance measures; home visits. Article 2 relates to the intelligence technique known as the "algorithm". Our two assemblies are converging on the need to extend this experimental phase, with a view to a broader parliamentary debate on the reform of the intelligence law that we expect next year. In an interview published yesterday, the Minister of the Interior mentioned the eighty-three prisoners convicted of terrorism who had already been released in 2020 and the other twelve who would be released by the end of the year. By virtue of the Act of 30 October 2017 and its extension, these individuals will be subject to individual administrative control and surveillance measures, as well as surveillance by the services, with prison intelligence providing the DGSI with end-of-incarceration reporting notes concerning TIS detainees – Islamist terrorists – or radicalized. A monthly exchange and coordination meeting is held to provide a comprehensive picture of the persons to be released. Moreover, the three algorithms, whose experimentation was decided by the law of 24 July 2015, known as the "intelligence law", prove to be major allies for the services. Their contributions are indeed major in the fight against terrorism. It is our responsibility to legally secure their use. Our colleagues in this chamber wish to maintain the provisions of the SILT Act and extend the validity of the "algorithm" information-gathering technique to December 31, 2021. But if we are all here to fight terrorism more effectively, we must also guard against any hasty decision. However, the Senate's proposal for sustainability does not meet this requirement: passing into the common law measures emanating from the state of emergency regime, without a substantive debate, would weaken our democracy. Yes, it is essential to extend the implementation of the measures concerned until 31 July 2021, but in view of the debate promised by the Government for the first half of next year. With regard to Article 2, the Senate returned to the original text by adopting the deadline of 31 December 2021; Our two rooms meet on this point. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] In conclusion, Madam Minister Delegate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to say that we are going to vote, with full responsibility, for the extension of the measures of the SILT Act and the Intelligence Act, with a view to a substantive debate in the spring of 2021 on the use of these devices. We will be with you to fight terrorism and political Islamism, to ensure the security of all French people without distinction as to origin, social conditions, neighbourhood or religious beliefs.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u41	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u42	The Joint Joint Committee meeting on this bill ended with a failure. The Senate wanted to give the text a whole new dimension. Given the recent context, that of the resurgence of the terrorist threat and, unfortunately, the attacks on our soil, we can understand its willingness to perpetuate without delay certain provisions that could make the fight against terrorism more effective. However, in the light of the health crisis and of a parliamentary agenda that is already completely crowded, it does not seem appropriate for the IDU and independent group to legislate in haste, i.e. without an in-depth debate on such provisions. It should be recalled that administrative police measures, as well as individual administrative control and surveillance measures, are the result of the state of security emergency decided on the basis of the 1955 Act. There would therefore be nothing anomalous about persevering them in the ordinary law, which requires a very careful examination on the part of the legislator. The bill under discussion maintains the various prerogatives that the laws of 2015 and 2017 have implemented. Our legal arsenal therefore remains fully operational. This factual remark does not mean, however, that we adhere to the method used. Indeed, since 2015, measures which are extremely derogatory to the ordinary law have been extended without a truly in-depth discussion of their merits, their operationality or even their effectiveness. For more than three years, the debate has therefore been hidden. The health crisis offers an additional pretext for further delaying it; It is indeed easier for the Government, in such a context, to present a bill merely to change the deadline for an experiment than to submit to the parliamentary debate the so complex respect for the balance between respect for fundamental freedoms and the need for exceptional provisions that violate freedoms for reasons of national security. It is not only a question, contrary to what the explanatory memorandum is intended to make it appear, of a change of date motivated by the exceptional circumstances caused by the epidemic: we must in fact ask ourselves once again about the prerogatives which Parliament is disposing of in favour of the executive, and the question of parliamentary control also arises.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u44	Of course, we are aware of the various missions and work carried out. However, as with the state of health emergency, Parliament appears more often to be a passive informant than an active actor in the construction of the law. In addition, we are becoming more and more accustomed to the temporary arrangements which last: measures which are supposed to be temporary are finally, subreptitiously but surely, integrated into the common law. The intentions are always good because they are about the safety of our fellow citizens, but these good intentions must not make us lose sight of the fact that, by incorporating derogatory provisions into ordinary law, we blur the boundaries between the common and the exceptional rules. The date of 31 July, laid down in Article 1, seems reasonable to us in view of what justifies it, namely the evolution of the health crisis. But we stress that this is a deadline and that, therefore, the parliamentary debate will have to take place as soon as possible. With regard to article 2, we regret that the Government has finally postponed the deadline until 31 December 2021. The argument drawn from the recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union does not convince us. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Our group does not comment on the substance of the measures in the Internal Security and Counter-Terrorism Act, but only on the need to postpone the deadline, so that the debate can take place under the best possible conditions, whether it be parliamentary work or the democratic debate itself, because it is essential when it comes to measures that may restrict fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u45	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u46	With this legislation, the Government proposes to extend the first four articles of the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, as well as article 25 of the Intelligence Act. The implementation of these legislative provisions aimed at preventing acts of terrorism had indeed been allowed until 31 December 2020, a time-frame which is very close. As the members of the Liberties and Territories Group have repeatedly stated, this extension, strictly framed in time, seems justified in view of the backlog in the parliamentary calendar. If the National Assembly, at first reading, had reduced the duration of the extension to six months, we understand that it is proposed to revert to the initial one-year extension provided for in the Government's text. On the other hand, we are relieved that the Government and the majority have not followed the Senate in its desire to perpetuate in our law all the measures of the SILT law in place of a mere extension. We are not in favour of permanent emergency laws. It should be recalled, however, that these measures allow the Ministry of the Interior to impose restrictions on persons under direct control of the administration, such as the prohibition of leaving their communes or the obligation to point daily at the police station or gendarmerie, whereas the application of these measures is based on imprecise criteria and generally on information from white notes. Therefore, let us use the coming year to carry out a genuine and necessary evaluation of the mechanisms of these two laws which have sought to give a legal basis to measures already applied but far removed from the judicial judge. For we have fundamental reservations, which concern both this law and the law on intelligence. The contested provisions could be analysed as creating areas of non-rights, and the introduction of a state of emergency into the common law has been accompanied by all the defects that this implies in terms of human rights violations. For example, the role of the judicial judge in the implementation of administrative and supervisory measures should be questioned. Of course, the judge of detention and freedoms comes into play, but he does not intervene with all the prerogatives of the judicial judge stricto sensu. Our group therefore believes that it is essential to restore the judicial judge's full place in the system. We will be very vigilant with regard to the provisions of Articles 1 to 4 of the Act of 30 October 2017, which have enabled us to leave the state of emergency by giving the administrative police authority specific powers to prevent terrorist acts, as they are particularly sensitive to individual rights and freedoms. Moreover, there is no indication that they are more useful and effective than those of ordinary law. That is why our group considers it essential that, within one year, at the end of the extension period, an independent assessment be carried out, including the impact on human rights of these measures derogating from ordinary law. This assessment could feed into the reflection work of Members, who will ultimately have the burden of renewing them or not, according to the arrangements they have defined. Parliament's control over their implementation must be independent, beyond the mere data provided by the Ministry of the Interior – sometimes fragmented, everyone knows – so that we can be enlightened and prevent possible drifts. A request to that effect had been made by the Special Rapporteur of the UN Human Rights Council during her visit to our country in 2018: she felt it necessary to strengthen Parliament's control over the authorities responsible for combating terrorism and ensuring national security. What about it? An evolution of the legal framework is absolutely necessary, and our group, when the time comes, will take its full part. With regard to the so-called "algorithmic" information-gathering technique, the extension of which is provided for in article 2 of the draft law, the National Commission for the Control of Intelligence Techniques is also requesting an implementation review within the legal framework established in 2015. The Court of Justice of the European Union has also received a number of questions for a preliminary ruling concerning the retention of such data. At the end of these proceedings, the Government will have to draw all the consequences of the decisions rendered. Ultimately, if the Government and the majority have acted with this bill, let us hope that they will remember the words of the President of the Constitutional Council, Laurent Fabius, in yesterday's Sunday Journal: "In any case, let us guard against sacrificing in this struggle the values that fundamentally differentiate us from those that attack us, starting with the principle of the dignity of the human person. The Libertés et Territoires Group will vote in favour of this text, which is limited to an extension, but that will not prevent it from being extremely vigilant when our assembly will have to analyse, in a few months' time, the substance of these measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u47	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u48	I will oppose the extension of the SILT Act. In just three years, we have passed eight laws restricting freedoms, de facto attacking the balance of powers, some of which may even be considered liberticide. Like all the other texts, this one is too much. Our country lives under the yoke of these exceptional laws. The exception is the open door to arbitrariness. To get used to these exceptional regimes is to getting used to an authoritarian regime. The SILT law, like the others, teaches us to live under a legal regime fed by what is the worst in our society: terror, sideration, lack of reflection. I tell you, the horror and anguish of the attacks will not protect us from terrorism. I do not say, of course, that we must not fight it in the strongest possible way. I'm not saying you mustn't be afraid; I'm just saying that we have to overcome the latter in order to find effective and reasonable answers – reasonable in that they do not violate the democratic principles that those who sow terror want us to abandon. But what is effective in your text, imposing overwhelming constraints on citizens without going through justice? What is effective in not guaranteeing them the right to be defended? What is reasonable about your house arrest or daily readings at the police station? No independent evaluation has been carried out and no government report has been able to tell us clearly. Have these laws made our intelligence services more effective, provided them with the necessary human and material resources? Regrettably, recent terrorist attacks force us to respond in the negative. In 2015, we were all bruised by the attacks. France, tetanized, could not say no, then, to the state of emergency or its successive extensions. And in 2017, without making a reasoned assessment of this state of emergency, the same provisions were adopted to bring security measures into the ordinary law. This democratic retreat was supposed to end in December 2020. But now you are proposing to extend it further, we are told, until, this time, they are brought into the common law. The decline of our freedoms is no longer an exceptional fact; Unfortunately, it has become a habit. I cannot look at this bill without isolating it from the current context: with a state of health emergency, public and individual freedoms are restricted; Moreover, the democratic right of Parliament is also restricted. I cannot, of course, separate it from the comprehensive security bill that will be discussed tomorrow in the House. To a system where we all decide together, where we are accountable to all, you prefer a regime where it is no longer even the Government that governs, but a secret defense committee that is untouchable and uncontrollable. I may have the flaw of my age, but I see you methodically undoing all the fights of my generation, the fights for freedom, the same freedom that Islamist terrorism hates viscerally. I am concerned that I will not see you any longer defending or even loving this freedom, because in your speech, freedom must stand behind security and disappear. Oh, you do it softly, with a smile, offending you that you're being accused of doing it, but you do. And you make a fundamental mistake: freedom is the first word in the republican motto. The 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen places it at the same level as security. Have you forgotten that security is also the guarantee of protection of the violence of power and the State? And yet, you get us used to a regime where the state becomes untouchable and not even critical, uncontrollable. That is the drift towards an authoritarian regime. In your regime, where arbitrariness reigns, ordinary French people are always likely to become suspicious Frenchmen, subject to overwhelming laws. In your regime, where suspicion dominates, I see you generalizing the tabulation of our citizens in all areas, such as health, safety, administration, without ever being accountable to us. Tomorrow, with the Global Security Act, you want to generalize this surveillance. Tomorrow, you want to prevent the dissemination of images of police officers, which is contrary to freedom of expression and information, as well as to human and citizen rights, which pose the question of the control of those who serve the State as an inalienable right. So you want to make the police a public service but without the public. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That is why I refuse this extension and that, tomorrow, I will also refuse your new ultra-security liberticide text. Under your quinquennium, our freedoms have declined as they have never declined in seventy years. All this is all the more inappropriate as you propose it in a state of health emergency, characterized by an unprecedented limitation of individual and public freedoms since the Liberation. Definitely, this crazy race has to stop.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u49	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u50	We're going through a difficult time. In a tragic context marked by further terrorist attacks, we must reiterate our unwavering commitment to act firmly against terrorism, while respecting the separation of powers, while preserving the fundamental rights that form the foundation of our Republic. We cannot ignore the magnitude of the threat on the territory and the need to prevent attacks, in order to protect our fellow citizens. It seems essential, however, in this complex period to maintain the balance of our rule of law, in order to strengthen and not weaken the democratic edifice to which we are all attached. This is not the path we would take by extending the measures of the SILT law. While these were due to expire on 31 December 2020, the Government intends to sustain mechanisms to strengthen the executive branch, with the extension of the administrative police powers. On the pretext of the exceptional health circumstances resulting from the epidemic of covid-19, the Government considers that it is "difficult to examine in good time [...] a specific draft law on the conditions for the perpetration or abolition of such measures". In this way, the national representative is asked to extend, in an accelerated procedure – without detailed and comprehensive assessments of the effectiveness of our legislative tools for combating terrorism – preventive measures, ordered on the basis of mere suspicions, restrictive freedoms, decided by the administrative authority and largely removed from the supervision of the judicial judge. This method is not acceptable. It is all the less so since the requirement for an evaluation has been repeatedly reiterated, either by the National Consultative Commission on Human Rights or recently by the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of human rights while countering terrorism. Already in 2018, during France's universal periodic review at the UN General Assembly, several States had also expressed concern about the lack of respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism and had stressed the need for an independent monitoring mechanism. These recommendations have not been a turning point in policy. The mechanisms now being extended are administrative police instruments: perimeters of protection, temporary closure of places of worship, individual administrative control and surveillance measures, house visits and seizures. As pointed out by the National Bar Council in its motion of 3 July 2020, these devices are very intrusive and have very serious consequences for the persons concerned. Measures similar to house arrest and administratively controlled searches circumvent the judicial process and the rights of the defence. These arrangements, established by the SILT Act, have established the special powers of the state of emergency in general law. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left had then strongly opposed this law of normalization of the state of emergency, with all human rights associations, many experts, international organizations and independent administrative authorities. At that time, we warned about the risks and the drifts of the trivialization of exceptional measures that would undermine the rule of law and the exercise of fundamental freedoms. We now oppose, in complete consistency, the extension of these exceptional arrangements as well as the extension of the experiment of the intelligence gathering technique known as the "algorithm". We always question the usefulness of this tightening of the repressive and administrative arsenal, without assessing its effectiveness. Today, as we do yesterday, we believe that our rule of law cannot be accustomed to the infringements of fundamental rights and freedoms, nor can we accept the abuses caused by these derogations. For all these reasons, the GDR Group, in conscience, will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u51	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u52	The 2017 law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as "SILT", allowed a controlled exit from the state of emergency regime established after the attacks of 13 November 2015 in Paris. This gradual exit was achieved thanks to tools that have since proved their worth: the establishment of protective perimeters, a measure widely used and well received by the population; the very controlled closure of certain places of worship inciting violence, hatred and discrimination; the establishment of individual administrative and supervisory control measures; Finally, the home and seizure visits, which have already led to an attack and to the prosecution of acts of terrorism. These tools have prevented a number of terrorist actions and ensured the knowledge and surveillance of potentially radicalized individuals. These measures ensure better prevention of terrorist risks and better protection of the French against this reality. This law also allowed the extension of an automated processing intelligence technique, introduced by the Intelligence Act of 24 July 2015. For example, the Prime Minister, after consulting the National Intelligence Technology Control Commission, may authorize the imposition on electronic communications operators and Internet service providers of automated processing on their networks to detect connections likely to reveal a terrorist threat. In 2017, when the law was passed, given its innovative nature, the increase in police powers and the restrictions on the freedoms that its measures may represent, in order to ensure the safety of everyone, we wanted to limit the possible application of different devices over time. The planned date was 31 December 2020, and we planned to re-evaluate the devices in the meantime. Unfortunately, the current health and social crises are forcing Parliament to react more quickly. From now on, the date of 31 July seems the most opportune, hoping that another major health crisis will not occur by then. In addition, the Government has undertaken to submit a text to us by the summer in order to include in the common law the relevant mechanisms that will complete the legal, punitive, intelligence and surveillance arsenal already in place. Moreover, the very recent decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the system of data retention by operators have led the Government to review the timetable envisaged in the National Assembly to consider the consequences that should be derived from it in the law. It is regrettable that we have not been able to reach an agreement with the Senate, as we share the same requirement for the safety of our fellow citizens. However, I have no doubt that the recent compromises, particularly on the date, will make it possible to reach an agreement between the two chambers. Such a re-evaluation is more timely than ever, as these measures remain eminently necessary. The recent attacks on Conflans-Sainte-Honorine and Nice remind us that the terrorist threat in France is very high. The health crisis that has mobilized the minds and work of parliamentarians since the beginning of the year must not make us forget or neglect the major risk that terrorism poses to the nation. The various enforcement reports submitted to Parliament showed the great interest of these four measures through their rational use, their operational contribution and the legal quality of the decisions taken accordingly. With regard to automated processing intelligence technology, in a report issued in June 2020, co-rapporteurs Loïc Kervran and Jean-Michel Mis highlighted "interesting results" and "very promising". The fact-finding mission thus found it "necessary to extend the algorithm technique". While some are trying to put on the presidential dungeon, I would like to point out that the parliamentary majority has proposed complementary texts to combat radicalisation and terrorism. That is the whole point of our colleague Laetitia Avia's bill against online hatred. It is no longer to be demonstrated that hate speech on social networks, in particular, amplifies the influence of Islamists and can trigger a transition to terrorist acts among radicalised people. The health crisis and the intensified use of social networks have led to an explosion of such hateful content. Similarly, the bill of Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chair of the Law Commission, and Raphaël Gauvain, was intended to introduce security measures applicable to persons convicted of terrorist offences upon their release from prison. Of course, the Constitutional Council limited these arrangements but did not censor them on the substance since it did not question the role of the legislator in "preventing the commission of acts disturbing public order". The majority will never give up on effective solutions. These decisions of the Constitutional Council must be able to form a road map to improve devices that we knew were new and therefore perfectable. Finally, last February, the President of the Republic signed an order to combat the financing of terrorist activities, with the obligation for many professions to declare to TRACFIN – processing of intelligence and action against illegal financial channels – the operations that seem to them to be at issue. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is therefore necessary to vote for this extension in order to continue in this direction and to remain vigilant in the face of the terrorist threat. It is essential to have all the necessary capabilities to continue to protect the French against these dangers which are still far too much present in the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u53	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u54	Security, internal security, global security: yes, security is a legitimate social requirement, and our country is facing a very difficult challenge. The purpose of this bill is to extend the measures in force since October 2017 relating to the strengthening of internal security and the fight against terrorism. The aim is to maintain in the ordinary law provisions which were previously of exceptional application since they came from the Act of 3 April 1955 on the state of emergency, which is not nothing. This can be seen as a necessary adaptation to the realities of contemporary threats, provided that the implementation of this legal framework continues to be strictly observed and respects the balance between the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism and the protection of constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms. But that is where this bill poses a problem, because it is part of a worrying global security dynamic that permeates all the laws brought by the Government. To muzzle investigative journalism and bring about the new security order of drone surveillance, to ban access to bookstores and to ban the filming of law enforcement: what is the name of this new world? If certain deprivations of liberty can be understood by these times of pandemic, how can we not worry about this security dynamic, which is even reflected in the law of research programming, which goes so far as to penalize demonstrations in schools? Three years' imprisonment and a fine of 45000 euros for student agitation: we must hate our history or ignore it to make him such an insult... Everywhere, in the name of the sacrosanct security, the civil authorities restrict the freedoms of movement, assembly, demonstration, trade, artistic expression, the press, the exercise of cults, and even the collection of mushrooms. At the same time, however, the main factors of insecurity are not the subject of any particular treatment: poverty, increasing economic insecurity, widening inequalities, ecological disaster, impoverishment of essential services for many of us, health services, education and research in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u55	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u57	"Security is the first freedom," I mean, with this misleading argument that it would be a human right. This is a hijacking of the 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen! It is not for nothing that the thinkers of the Enlightenment and the constituents have included among our fundamental rights safety and not security. Security, which was already found in Montesquieu, is the guarantee for a citizen to be protected from the State and its possible abuses or abuses. We're right in there. What do you think of the recent decision of the Council of State of 4 November validating ALICEM – online authentication certified on mobile –, the government facial recognition application? It is true that the temptation is great: what is more simple, for a senior Parisian official or a minister, than to impose prohibitions of any kind – "Close bars, restaurants, small shops, bookstores, universities, places of expression and prayer" – rather than to assume his responsibilities in these difficult times and to restrict freedoms only where it is absolutely indispensable? [[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds]] We are currently putting in parentheses fundamental rights, without debate, without seeking the free and informed consent of citizens. Our Parliament has become puppet, the Government is wiping its feet on it. Last example: the proposal for a law on the overall security of two deputies on orders rather than a bill assumed by the Government: this prevents the Government from being compelled by the impact assessment and the advice of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u58	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u59	Catastrophies also the use of prescriptions for subjects as sensitive as private security activities! We are slowly but surely moving towards another form of political regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u60	Which one?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Without ever responding to the insecurity of the property of the poorest, the state is putting itself at its own service and that of the prince in his new creeping phase towards the security state. My freedom is very sad this week, and for how long?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u62	The general discussion is closed. The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u63	I will not answer everyone in particular, but I would like to share with you a few observations. It is clear from the various interventions that the parliamentary discussion that has already taken place on this subject has made it possible to find a balance: both to preserve all the fundamental freedoms to which we are all very attached and to fight terrorism with new and very useful tools – I do not go back to my explanations of the general discussion. The Government has proposed to find a compromise, with a close appointment clause: this is the July 2021 deadline for the SILT Act; We will then have the opportunity to discuss the substance in full. I've heard from some people that there would be drifts. I recall that all measures are taken under the control of the judge; It seems to me important to remind him that this reality has not been relayed by all. I welcome the intervention of Mr Bournazel, who recalled the continuum between the subjects: the fight against separatism, on which we will have an opportunity to debate soon, and the fight against terrorism. Parliament is always fully involved; In fact, the Minister of the Interior and I have based a number of our provisions on parliamentary work. Reference was made to the United Nations and to the work of its rapporteur on issues of human dignity. I would like to recall that she begins her report by writing that she has been very well received in France and by welcoming the organisation and transparency of all public authorities. On the other hand, I cannot let it be said without reacting that a terrorist attack took place because the people working on the PHAROS platform would not have reacted. I cannot let them be called into question by Mr Corbière in particular. With Gérald Darmanin, I recall that we decided to allocate 20 FTEs – full-time equivalents – to PHAROS and open its services 24 hours a day. The platform is fully mobilized and I do not believe that it is worthy of questioning its work. From the Monday following the attack, I went there for a RETEX – feedback – on the work that had been carried out there: it turns out that the report that had been sent to PHAROS about a Twitter account was based on a broken link that was a statement that had nothing to do with the apology of terrorism. We cannot deplore measures that are too firm, too coercive, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, a form of laxism, when there was no reason to question them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u64	We have not deplored laxism but a lack of resources!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u65	Exactly! The problem is the lack of resources!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u66	As far as security perimeters are concerned, false things have been said and I cannot let them pass without reacting. In particular, it was suggested that the national police and the gendarmerie would delegate monitoring missions linked to the fight against terrorism to private organizations. But that is not the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u67	That's not what the Senate says!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u68	We will have an opportunity to discuss this within the framework of the PLP of Mr Fauvergue and Mrs Thourot. The tasks entrusted to private security organizations are limited to the supervision of buildings; They are in no way counter-terrorism missions. You say, Mr. Corbière: "I don't understand why we don't think we're answering on the merits; I do not understand why we believe that we are not committed to terrorism and to the Republic. I would like to quote a single sentence from one of your colleagues in the group La France insoumise, who answers, when we talk to him about the values of the Republic: "That's enough, your republican catechism all fart. That's what France thinks about the values of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u69	You take a sentence out of its context and you attack someone who is not in the Chamber! That's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u70	But you're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u71	And, by the way, can we know who you're talking about, Madam Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u72	I believe that after that it is not credible to pretend to speak in defence of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u73	Your way of doing things is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u74	[[Ms. Florence Granjus applauds]] It's a little out of the question, but since I've been questioned, I'm allowed to answer. You mentioned the debates about young Mila, Mr. Corbière. I do believe that it is essential to condemn without reservation the death threats, the morbid photomontages and the insults that young Mila receives. But no, I didn't just talk, contrary to what you said on the radio and earlier: I made a report to the public prosecutor under article 40 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and we prepared it for 24 hours by documenting it with files, so that the justice could deal with it. It's not called talking, it's called acting!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u75	Good, 'cause you're here for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u76	That's what I did, that's what we did, and that's what we're still doing here in discussing this bill, and it was important to remember that. Finally, Mr Coquerel, we are talking about the fight against terrorism, the violence of terrorism, and you are replying to us "violence of power": you are completely beside the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u77	Don't caricature what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u78	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] This is a good illustration of what we said earlier: yes, we too want to protect freedoms, starting with the freedom to escape attacks, the freedom not to be stabbed when leaving home! The first freedom is security!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u79	I now call in the committee's text the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies have not been able to arrive at the same text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u80	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u81	The Republican Group will vote for the extension of the SILT law, of course, because it contains tools that contribute to the security of the French and because, for us, the security of the French is one of the priorities. It is even a priority of constitutional value, to the point that it should be at the top of the hierarchy of constitutional norms, which is not the case, far from it. We will vote for the extension of this law, even if we did not vote for its adoption in November 2017. We assert that SILT law has contributed to the deterioration of our level of protection. She participated in the exit from the state of emergency, which, given the seriousness of the terrorist threat we face, would be a much better regime than the SILT Act, because the 1955 Act offers much more effective tools, including administrative search and house arrest measures. In support of this argument, I will quote the figures, unfortunately very clear, from the work we are conducting with the Chair of the Law Commission and Raphaël Gauvain in control of the SILT law. With regard to MICAS, during the state of emergency, from 13 November 2015 to 1 November 2017, the State had carried out 754 house arrest, while since 1 November 2017, there have been only 345 MICAS, i.e. less than half. As for the visits and seizures, there had been 469 administrative searches during the state of emergency, and there had been only 190 such searches since then. We regret this deterioration in the level of protection of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u83	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 1, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u84	Many arguments were exchanged. This is an amendment that wishes to express our disagreement with this text. Among the arguments, it has been said that reports show the effectiveness of the law since 2017. However, these reports come from the Ministry of the Interior. A report by the Ministry of the Interior evaluating a law of which it is itself the promoter does not seem to us to have to be put forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u85	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u86	The officials will appreciate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u87	I appreciate the value of this argument... We could have imagined that a public authority would take care of it. And why not a parliamentary report?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u88	There are!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u89	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u90	Please don't use the argument "public servants will appreciate"! When I mentioned the fact that the PHAROS system is under-equipped, it was certainly not a criticism of those who conduct this vigilance work,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u92	...but a mere remark to regret that they lack staff. Moreover, the first step taken by the Minister of the Interior after the assassination of Samuel Paty was to increase the number of personnel on this platform, which shows that the problem of human resources is central. Finally, Madam Deputy Minister, I do not want to inflame controversy, especially since I have no personal problems with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u93	Indeed, let us not inflame the debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u94	However, I ask you, please, to stop citing the comments of I do not know which person, obviously absent – as the presiding officer could have made him observe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u95	This is your colleague Obono!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u96	This is not a way to exchange and such a process shows the weakness of your argumentation. But let us stay there, Madam Deputy Minister, because I respect you personally and this controversy is of no interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u97	Thank you, Mr Corbière, for not moving away from the purpose of this deletion amendment. The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u98	The Committee on Laws has, of course, given an unfavorable opinion on this amendment. We have had this debate many times before. It contrasts two visions, almost two worlds: on the one hand, an ideal world, where no risk would be high, where it would be possible to allow everything, where everything would be easy, where one would never encounter difficulties; On the other hand, the real world, in which we unfortunately live, which is marked by violence and clearly confronts us with our responsibilities. National representation is responsible to the people for ensuring two absolutely fundamental and indissolubly linked things: security – I do not know if it is the first freedom, but it is in any case a fundamental freedom – and other freedoms. As the Deputy Minister pointed out earlier, no administrative police action is beyond the scope of judicial remedies. This is very clearly the case for home visits, which are systematically subject to the authorization of a judge of freedoms and detention. Some requests have thus been refused, and it is normal that there is such a space for debate, that is the value of our republican institutions. Other visits, on the contrary, led to a judicialization. We are in fact all in agreement: administrative police measures have meaning only as a transition to judicial seizures; They allow us, as we have repeatedly pointed out, to remove doubts, to know exactly who we are dealing with and under what conditions we can move forward. Mr Corbière, you did not take up the summary statement of your amendment, which refers to "scelerate law." What I think would be a shame would be to do nothing, to leave the French alone in the face of such violence, in the face of a daily, heavy, serious threat. We have to react. These measures will apply within a specified period of time. We hope to be able to resume this debate longer, more structured, more complete later, by further enriching the text or even deleting certain provisions, as it is our responsibility to do. Let us still leave this capacity; it is very exactly the meaning of the text that is submitted to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u99	The Deputy Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u100	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u101	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u102	I am opposed to this amendment because it is of course appropriate to extend the provisions concerned. Mr rapporteur, here we touch at the heart of the subject: the difference between, on the one hand, the administrative search, permitted by the state of emergency, in accordance with the law of 3 April 1955, and, on the other, the home visit, provided for by the SILT law. The state of emergency allowed the administrative authority to lift doubts in case of concerns, which led to almost 4600 administrative searches between 2015 and 2017, for example on the staff locker in Roissy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u104	These measures were within the administrative framework alone. Now with the home visits, you have introduced a kind of legal UFO...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u105	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u106	...requiring the consent of a judge and thus involving the judicial order. Moreover, the elements necessary to carry out these visits are similar to those which make it possible to open a judicial investigation. Because of this judicial nature, because they are not merely administrative doubts, home visits are virtually inoperative. This is the reality: there is almost no more, because it is too complicated for the administrative authority to obtain authorization!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u107	Except there were 286 of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u108	Madam Chair of the Law Committee, you remember the hearing of the JLD – judge of freedoms and detention – working with the anti-terrorist prosecutor's office: he himself had very clearly explained these difficulties to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u109	Unrelenting demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u110	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u111	Much stronger ambition is needed in the fight against terrorism. I am one of those who consider that we are waging this fight with legal balls at our feet, that the law in force deprives us of extremely powerful and efficient tools. I solemnly say this in this House: we will not, in the short or medium term, be saving money from a reform of the fundamental text, if we are to fight terrorism in a less naive way. Two major provisions should be possible, whereas they are not, according to constant case law: administrative detention, in order to prevent people whose dangerousness we know from taking action; security detention, to protect our society from dangerous prisoners leaving prison. The Minister of the Interior recalled the figures concerning the TIS, those convicted of Islamic terrorism: about a hundred will be released from prison in 2020 – this is already the case for most of them – and several tens of others in 2021 and 2022. We must also add DCSR prisoners – ordinary law who are subject to radicalization. In all, TIS plus DCSR, 2540 prisoners representing a threat to society were released or will be released from prison between 2018 and 2022! However, the Constitutional Council partially censored your proposal for a law introducing security measures against the perpetrators of terrorist offences at the end of their sentence, Madam Chairperson of the Law Commission. Either we draw the consequences by reforming the Constitution, so as to make it clear to constitutional judges that the people's will to protect themselves has a higher value; Either we let it happen, and we expose our society to a major threat!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u112	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u113	Mr Sebastien Nadot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u114	Madam Deputy Minister, you concluded your remarks earlier by saying that security would be the first freedom. Since, moreover, Mr Ciotti has just called for a revision of the Constitution to include this idea, this question must be put to the debate. Are we still living under the regime of the 1958 Constitution, beyond its transformations? In the latter, security is not one of the constitutional freedoms. It's important; When this point is noted, a whole line of reasoning collapses. Madam Minister-in-Office, I repeat, with the idea that all the decisions taken in this House should be examined at the security prism, you introduce confusion, which is extremely worrying. Do you really consider that security is the first freedom, in contradiction with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u115	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 2, which deletes Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u116	This gives me the opportunity to bring the debate back to its substance – as I have already tried to do in my previous speech. Let us all agree at least that with these laws establishing a state of emergency or incorporating its provisions into ordinary law on the pretext of replacing it, we are dealing with the always difficult balance between security and respect for freedoms. In the name of security and the fight against terrorism, in particular, we relativize, we move on to the background, we weaken the defence of certain individual freedoms in relation to power. Such compromises can be agreed upon in emergency situations. But let us not deny that they have an impact on the rule of law and on the separation of powers. Mr. Ciotti pushes the logic to the end: according to him, in the name of the fight against terrorism, a French Guantanamo should be established – if it is not his terms, that is what we have understood.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u117	Indeed! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u118	It is a debate: how far can we go in the fight against an external threat without questioning the rule of law, to which our opponents are precisely opposed? Madam Deputy Minister, you cannot simply caricature the debate, as you did earlier, by saying that we would be wrong to make the power of the state a problem, when the real problem would be terrorism. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, As long as individual and public freedoms are restricted in a democracy, it is a problem! We could all agree, at least! I assume that everyone in this House recognizes that the measures to restrict individual and public freedoms adopted in the context of the state of health emergency – even if they are considered necessary for a certain period of time – are not neutral in a democracy. The risk is that the power in place will come to use these devices for reasons other than those that motivated their establishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u119	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u120	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u121	That's exactly what happens with the SILT law. Look carefully: everything shows that it is not as effective as you claim against terrorism,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u122	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...but that it is dangerous for our public freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u125	He's unfavorable. France has made great efforts to deploy police services. As noted earlier, the ISB workforce has doubled, and the reorganisation of intelligence services has also made significant progress. We cannot under any circumstances give up on the third fundamental element: the ability to control all the exchanges that take place on the web or by telephone. We must therefore, by incorporating the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union and anticipating the forthcoming opinion of the Council of State, adopt the provisions of this article, which we absolutely need, even if they are to be adapted to the end of the forthcoming discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u127	Mr Ciotti, just before joining you in this House, I was taking part in a working session on these issues with the national intelligence coordinator, former Secretary of State Laurent Nunez, whom you know well. Let us look at the figures: since 2017, 592 perimeters of protection have been created, 8 places of worship have been closed and 353 individual administrative control and surveillance measures have been notified, of which 63 remain in force. I did not intend to go back to home visits, since I have already dealt with them in my opening remarks, but since you have referred to them twice, know that since 2017, 286 have been carried out! They have always been targeted, concrete and effective. You cannot therefore say that the SILT law has failed to strengthen the fight against terrorism. I will not engage in a great debate of semantics or political philosophy on the relationship between freedom and security. If some do not understand how safety preserves freedoms, let them talk to any woman who has already been forced to take the metro alone at 23 hours thirty in a so-called "difficult" neighbourhood, and they will realize that this is basically the case! Finally, I turn to the left of the Chamber to point out that all home visits were carried out in a targeted manner and under the control of the judge. I cannot therefore allow it to be said that the fight against terrorism would be merely a pretext for the adoption of the SILT law or this text, which is in fact merely intended to satisfy the hidden objective of power. In truth, Mr Coquerel, look at the files: not one of them is directly linked to terrorism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u128	That's it. We're relying on evidence!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u129	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] So what you're saying is false and dangerous!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u130	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u131	Madam Deputy Minister, the number of 190 house visits I have quoted is the result of the work carried out with the Chair of the Law Commission – it is true, it dates from before the attack that struck Samuel Paty, unlike that of 286 visits that you give. However, this difference does not fundamentally call into question my demonstration and conviction because, in comparison, I recall that 4,469 administrative searches, 15 or 20 times more, had been carried out between 2015 and 2017. On the other hand, our respective data clearly show that many home visits – which have the function of raising doubt – took place only after a new attack struck our territory. Guillaume Larrivé made the relentless demonstration of the dangers we are looking for and of the need to reinforce this remarkable law on intelligence, which we had not only supported but also enriched with the minister of the time, Bernard Cazeneuve. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – The Minister Delegate agrees]] Finally, I would like to say how shocked I am at the attacks suffered by Mila. Even if you have finally announced the opening of a judicial investigation, it seems to me that it would be the honour of the Republic to set up a comprehensive procedure for the barbarians who threaten it. We are faced with an association of terrorist criminals, and these threats have for too long been trivialized. When we receive more than a thousand death threats, society must react: not protecting Mila is already subject to the law of Islamist barbarism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u132	Mr Ludovic Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u133	I find it a pity that, on the one hand, some question the rule of law and wish to move the lines and, on the other hand, it is assumed that the rule of law has been flouted, while the Constitutional Council has validated all the provisions of the text. Talking about compromise, as you have done, Mr Coquerel, is dangerous: can we really find a compromise in the fight against terrorism, when we fully know that we need complementary measures, whether those proposed to us in the framework of the internal security law or those which must participate, tomorrow, in the republican reconquest of our cities? Let us be smarter in our speeches and not be in the permanent caricature between a right who wants more and a left who wants less.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u134	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u135	It's okay, it's okay! I did not say that we had to find a compromise with terrorism. What are you talking about? You should listen to what they say and not caricature the debate by throwing phrases like that. It's unbearable! I am talking about a compromise between security and freedom in the face of an external danger. This must concern us, particularly with regard to the state of health emergency, which everyone will agree here whether or not it restricts public and individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u136	You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u137	What's the point of summarising things like you do? Is it to suggest, as some of your ministers have said, that we are complicit in terrorism? Otherwise, don't caricature our words that way. I am also speaking to you, Madam Minister Delegate: I did not say at any time that the right to security was not a fundamental right; I'm just wondering.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u138	He said an enormity...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u139	You tell us not to worry about a law that allows the aspiration of all personal data, as the Americans do but with less means, and with less judicial control, since only terrorists will be targeted. I want to tell you that I do not know whether only terrorists are targeted today, but that in any case, a state in possession of the personal data of its citizens can use it in many different ways, since the control procedures are not sufficient. To the question of whether I have absolute confidence in the State which has dangerous means for freedoms, my answer is no, and I have examples, including recent ones, that prove me right. You do not see how this Article 2 is problematic. However, let me tell you that this widespread surveillance, by means that have not even proven their effectiveness in relation to terrorism – since we know that it is the human means that allow results – may one day be problematic, if we exonerate ourselves from normal control procedures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u140	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u141	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u142	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u143	The next item is the debate on the organic bill, as amended by the Senate, on the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (No. 3435, 3540), for a new reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u144	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u145	We now come together again to discuss the draft organic law on the Economic, Social and Environmental Council – EESC. This debate comes only a few weeks after a first reading examination which allowed everyone to expose their convictions, sometimes their fears, often their proposals. First of all, I wanted to pay tribute to the work of the Law Committee, in particular the rapporteur, Mr Erwan Balanant, and Ms Nicole Dubré-Chirat, for considerably enriching the Government's draft and re-establishing the philosophy of the text. This version is, I believe, the best way both to give the EESC the place it deserves and to strengthen our participatory democracy, in particular by reintroducing the use of drawing lots. After our rich debate at first reading, I do not think it is necessary to present the details of this bill. I would like to go back to the points which, in view of the amendments that we are going to consider, seem to me to deserve further explanation. First of all, we want to make the EESC a hub for public consultations: for this, we need to strengthen the links between the EESC and local consultative bodies, and give the EESC's consultations a dominant force with a surrogate effect. It must be noted that the links with the local advisory councils do not really exist, including with the regional economic, social and environmental councils – CESER – whose scope of material competence is, however, quite comparable. This compartmentalisation must be stopped and exchanges between national and local bodies must be organised so that the EESC can draw on territorial expertise. Here I would like to be clear about the intentions of the Government: there is no question of undermining the free administration of local authorities or the role of the CESER. On the contrary, we want to value the knowledge and expertise of our territories, but to do so we need to remove barriers. As proposed by the rapporteur, the EESC should be allowed to consult local bodies, even those whose existence is not provided for by law. This consultation must also be made conditional on information from the communities to which they are attached, but not on authorization. Secondly, we want to affirm the primacy of the EESC consultation over the other consultations. Indeed, in the face of a multitude of advisory bodies, consultation with the EESC is often neglected. In order to restore its attractiveness, the Government intends to give it a prominent place, in accordance with the one it holds in our republican institutions. This is the subject of Article 6. I understand, of course, the reservations that remain that this mechanism would undermine the wealth of consultations. This fear is totally unfounded. First of all, we are fortunate to have, together with the EESC, a grouping within the same institution of extremely varied profiles and competences which will be fully able to give opinions of great richness, as is already the case. Furthermore, the discussion we had here at first reading had affirmed the scope of the substitute effect of the EESC consultation. I believe that a good balance had been reached, since about half of the advisory bodies will no longer be consulted in case of referral to the EESC, while preserving the consultation of eminent bodies, such as the Local Finance Committee. Finally, your rapporteur has provided the text with a new guarantee which I believe is essential: in order to draw up its opinions, the EESC will always be able to question the relevant consultative bodies. The expertise of these various bodies will feed into the EESC's opinions and enrich our reflections on draft legislation. For all these reasons, we invite you to adopt this article as drafted by the committee. The other major issue that remains under discussion in your House is the composition of the EESC. It is understandable: defining the composition of this consultative body, which represents the living forces of the nation, amounts to seeking a subtle balance between the economic and social components of our country. I would like to remind you of the essential amendments made by this bill. First of all, the text reduces the number of EESC members by one quarter, to 175, in line with the commitment of the President of the Republic. It then recasts the composition of the Council into four broad categories, the details of which will be laid down by regulation, following the opinion of a pre-figuring committee. These amendments are the result of a compromise between all the interests represented, although I know that it does not satisfy everyone and that many amendments have been tabled to increase the number of members, to include the representation of certain categories of interest or to sanctify the existing one. The Government will support the preservation of this balanced compromise. I know that the representation of the overseas territories in the EESC is receiving your particular and, of course, legitimate attention. I would like to try to address the concerns that have been expressed. I am convinced that the overseas countries and territories, in their great diversity, make all the wealth of France, but the EESC does not have the task of ensuring that local and regional authorities are represented, nor does it represent the overseas authorities or departments. It is the Senate, as you know, that carries out these missions. The EESC, on the other hand, ensures a balanced representation of all the economic and social components of our country; It is in this capacity that the overseas countries and territories must be represented. It is in this spirit that the Government has tabled an amendment to reinforce the proper place given to the overseas countries and territories, specifically mentioning them in the third category of EESC members, as is already the case under current law. However, in order to achieve our dual objective of providing flexibility to the EESC's membership while maintaining a balance of the various interests represented and reducing the number of members by 25%, the amendment proposes an overseas presence of eight members in this category. This is a compromise between, on the one hand, the guarantees we wish to provide to the overseas countries and, on the other, the reform of the EESC which we call for. Indeed, the reduction in the overall number of members has been accompanied by the search for new balances between the different categories of the EESC. These balances, which have been found as a result of a long concerted effort, cannot be called into question without hindering the future functioning of the institution. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our discussions at first reading have greatly enriched this organic bill: I hope that the debate on this new reading will continue this work and lead to a solution that will alleviate the remaining concerns that have arisen.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u146	Mr Erwan Balanant, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u147	The draft organic law on the Economic, Social and Environmental Council was adopted successively by the National Assembly and the Senate at first reading on the basis of a statement that we all share: it is necessary to reform this institution, which has long not truly fulfilled the mission entrusted to it by the constituent, i.e. to represent a link between organised civil society and the public authorities. The Joint Joint Committee – CMP – which met on 30 October, however, failed to propose a text on the remaining provisions. We disagree with the Senate on some important points in the text, but that must not prevent us from drawing inspiration from its work and from translating into our votes the points of agreement that have been found. The Law Commission has re-read many of the contributions of our fellow senators in a constructive dialogue, which demonstrates the usefulness of the shuttle. Among the points on which our two assemblies converge and which are reflected in the text we are considering today, I will mention in particular the continued abolition of qualified personalities from the membership of the EESC, proposed in Article 7. This reform gives all their place to the representatives of the various activities of our country: they are the ones who founded the legitimacy of this institution, and we give them the hand to formulate the recommendations useful to the public debate. We also agree on the improvement of certain procedures, including the simplified adoption of notices: our committee has fully reflected the clarifications made by the Senate in section 5. The Senate has also continued our work on the rules of ethics to be applied to EESC members as well as to external personalities involved in its work. We are still in full agreement on the purpose, and our committee has taken over the provisions adopted by the Senate, subject to the reintroduction of the annual activity report of the EESC members. In this respect, I welcome the work of Mrs Laurianne Rossi, who has invested a great deal in this matter and made it possible to achieve this result. Finally, as a real step forward, our two assemblies agree on the need to restore meaning to the referral by means of a petition from the EESC, which constitutes the citizen referral introduced in the Constitution during the 2008 revision. As it stands, we all know that it does not work. The threshold of 500,000 signatures is too high and the conditions for filing petitions are exceeded. Therefore, beyond their dematerialization that we endorse, we have lowered this threshold to 150,000 signatories at first reading. In committee, we had also added a geographical criterion of residence in at least 30 departments to exclude local subjects, which do not fall within the competence of the EESC. A debate took place at first reading in this House as to whether this balance was the right one: this criterion was finally removed to give citizens a greater opportunity to take the EESC. It is therefore the Council which will have to assess whether it is a national interest or a local subject on which it would not be competent. In this case, the enhanced dialogue we establish with the CESER will no doubt help to direct petitioners to the appropriate local consultation bodies. In addition, this right would be available from the age of sixteen and no longer from the age of majority. This reflects the ambition of the majority and the Government to better involve young people in our democracy. I hope that many of them will come to grips with this, and I welcome the fact that the Senate has accepted this development as a whole. We therefore agree on a number of important points, as well as on several editorial improvements that I am not going back to. On the other hand, we differ on key issues that justify this reform: the participation of citizens in the work of the EESC and the subrogation that you mentioned, Mr Keeper of the Seals, of the EESC in certain consultative bodies. As I have indicated to our fellow senators, in order for the EESC to be reformed, to find its place in our institutions, to be better known and to be better used, we need to move certain lines, or else to deprive this reform of any scope. To this end, the Law Commission has reviewed several provisions. Article 4, which lays down the conditions for public participation in the EESC's work by providing important guarantees, has been re-established. The principles of sincerity, equality, transparency and impartiality would thus be enshrined in the organic law, as well as the guarantees of good information for the participants, representativeness of the selected panels and accountability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u148	I would point out that the EESC is already using citizen participation, as well as the drawing of lots. Whether we include it in the law or not will not change it. On the other hand, we set the rules and secure their organizational conditions. Two clarifications were also made. The first is to ensure that the conditions of balanced representation of the Territory, and of parity, apply only to consultations by lot. Such an obligation could not apply to an online consultation, for example. The second is that when the EESC decides to use the drawing of lots, it appoints guarantors to ensure compliance with the guarantees we have introduced in Article 4; They will be bound by an obligation of neutrality and impartiality. We have done a substantive work on Article 4 that was expected by many actors and we are providing the means to ensure that consultations are actually carried out in the future. We have also reinstated Article 6, which allows the EESC to replace the other consultation bodies, subject to the important exceptions that we have introduced at first reading, as you have pointed out, Mr Keeper of the Seals. However, in order not to lose useful expertise, the committee has completed this article, so that the EESC can consult the relevant bodies on the topics covered by the draft laws before it. Finally, with regard to Article 7, we discussed how best to ensure the representation of overseas workers in the EESC. I had proposed to re-establish the eleven overseas representatives, in addition to the 175 members envisaged by the reform. It seemed to me, after long reflections and many exchanges with the parties concerned, that this was the simplest solution. However, I have also identified some of the disadvantages: it reflected on one of the major balances of the reform and on the consultations that took place within the EESC to prepare it. The Republic on the move and you yourself have proposed a compromise solution which I think is more secure for the overseas countries than the situation resulting from our first reading; I wanted to thank you for that. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the balance that our committee has adopted. It is therefore not a question of re-establishing the text of the National Assembly without regard for the work of the Senate, on the contrary. I once again congratulate her rapporteur, Mrs Muriel Jourda, for the work done, which we have largely relied on to further strengthen the provisions that remain under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u149	In the general debate, Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u150	We therefore have to consider again the draft organic law reforming the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, following the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. I will return to the objectives of the text, which you described earlier, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. First of all, this is not the reform of the century – you also agreed to it; Besides, that wasn't your goal. But if we add to this the safety and health context, we question the urgency of the final adoption of this text. We agree with most of the objectives set out in the reform. The first is to try to give greater visibility to the Economic and Social Council, now the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, by maintaining the balance of institutions, without ever being confused; It's not and it's never been the goal, as you have and we have reaffirmed. Representative democracy is Parliament: the National Assembly and the Senate. What can be broadly called participatory democracy is aimed at ensuring that the intermediary bodies, the country's living forces, but also our fellow citizens, in that they are individually part of the Republic, can be involved, not necessarily in the decision-making process, but at least in the process of its elaboration. The second objective was to make the Economic, Social and Environmental Council the focal point for public consultations, as recalled. We agree with this objective, therefore – it was already the precaution that I had expressed at first reading, with amendments that were not accepted – that these public consultations should not remain to opinions without further action, which would not be transmitted automatically and mandatory to the permanent committees of our assemblies – I repeat, because it is important to me and to us. There would be at least one debate on each subject, so that our fellow citizens do not feel that these opinions are used to set up Norman cabinets or to light chimneys; It would still be a pity for the opinions of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. You took a lot of time, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, in the second part of your speech, to legitimize, with a concern for flexibility that can be understood, that the composition of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council is no longer fixed in the marble of the law, but referred to regulatory provisions that will then make it possible to adapt the various colleges to the reality of time, if I have understood correctly. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] There is, however, a limit for us. Nevertheless, in the various colleges, the spirit of the original Economic and Social Council must be preserved: it is the place where the country's living, economic and social forces, i.e. representatives of employers' unions and workers' unions, continue their indispensable dialogue on the country's major economic issues. Care must also be taken to ensure that family associations retain their place. Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure that the federations of hunters and fishermen, which are major players in environmental protection, are also always present in the representations. It is appropriate that the composition of colleges should not be subject to strong political orientations, which could be provided by one executive or another. In addition to these concerns, which I wanted to reaffirm, the independent IDU Group will vote in favour of your text, Mr Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u151	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u152	The worst of the debates are the "bla-bla" debates...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u153	[[Smile]] That's nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u154	... those that are opened and are of no use; Our fellow citizens really did. This is not new, but they have tended to become more widespread in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u155	He's going hard!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u156	The number of seats, high councils and general states, particularly at the beginning of the mandate, is a testament to this. What did we have? And with what results? The worst of the "bla-bla" debates was the big debate that followed the yellow vest crisis. When we ask our fellow citizens what it was for, they say, "Nothing."
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u157	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u158	I really thought that the reform of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council that you are proposing would enable us to give our citizens much more power, structure these new procedures and ensure that the consultations launched could really serve something. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to go back to our constituencies, we are going to tell them, "Clouette, we have given you power and you are in a position to seize the Economic, Social and Environmental Council! " They'll ask us what it's for; We're going to tell them it's going to create debates, but what's the point? We really should have gone much further. It was an opportunity to truly strengthen democracy, which is sick and breathless. It was enough to ensure that open petitions – it is interesting, Mr rapporteur, to open petitions – did not only lead to further debates in committee. Frankly, if we think this will make it possible to change decisions! Petitions had to be able to actually make the law, that is, to write bills that could be submitted to Parliament. There, we would have thought, "Well, that's really not bad, the work we do actually leads to a decision-making process." That's not the case. It was also necessary to ensure that the EESC, as is the case in some northern European countries and in the European Parliament, was the forum for impact assessments and government consultation. That would have been pretty good, because we were coming up with really prepared bills, with guarantees of consultation and impact assessment. Who can say that this is the case with legislative proposals submitted to Parliament? No one. You are proposing a small reform of the EESC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u159	[[Smile]] All this blah-blah for that!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u160	Of course, we will vote in favour of him. EESC members are doing good work; We're going to pick them up a lot when there's a fire. Civil society, we'll look for her when things go wrong. At least they work; They'll make us proposals. Citizens' participation will be strengthened, colleges will be reformed and the right to petition will be expanded. All this is better than nothing at all, but as we say in the countryside, it's not going to make us climb the curtains. That is not what will revolutionize democracy. We will, of course, be paying attention to a number of points that have been highlighted by previous speakers: the link between the EESC and the CESER, the structuring of these bodies, the strengthening of the overseas position and the necessary creation of bridges with the territories. We also thought it wise – but perhaps questionable – to create a fifth category of members representing civil society in the territories, as we proposed at first reading. The Liberties and Territories Group will, I repeat, vote in favour of this organic bill. But really, let us leave ourselves on the defence of democracy, strengthen it by real citizen participation and commit ourselves to a true Jacobine revolution that considerably strengthens Parliament. There, our fellow citizens will be really happy to be consulted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u161	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u162	In presenting this text, the Government claimed to make the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, the EESC, a "crossroad between public consultations" to better inform institutions on economic, social and environmental issues and to welcome the voice of citizens. That will not be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u163	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u164	We doubt it, it is now very clear. Behind the government's demand, the reality is very disappointing in the midst of the ambitions displayed. In truth, more fundamentally, it is the whole software of macronia, this jupitary monarchy engulfed in the oripeaux of a breathless Fifth Republic, which is hostile to any democratic breath, as the current crisis, in the midst of which we are debating this text which appears totally out of the ground, illustrates in a rather striking way. Once again, this bill bears witness to presidential hypocrisy; Even in appearance, there is no longer a question of listening to the people or of respecting democracy. While citizens, while employees, mobilized for tax justice, the defence of public services, climate, health and pensions, have been alerting him for the past three years to the social, democratic and ecological emergency, and to the emergency measures to be taken, this power has been constantly responding with dilatory contempt and a repressive and security escalation. He ignored the demands of the Citizens' Climate Convention, such as those concerning the renegotiation of the CETA – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, the global economic and trade agreement – the 4% dividend tax to finance the ecological transition, the moratorium on 5G, the ecotax on the air, the reduction of VAT on trains, the ban on advertising on polluting products, or the obligation to renovate private housing by 2024 – so many subjects that still occupy a great deal of space in the debates, in particular those of the EESC. On the EESC, too, none of the demands of the Citizens' Convention have been truly met: neither systematic consultation at the time of drafting drafts and bills, nor strengthening the binding nature of its opinions, nor drawing lots of permanent members – even the name could not be revised. Scorn is in fact more general, it reaches all forms of democracy, health, social and parliamentary; It is particularly striking and shocking, even when it is urgent, in the midst of a crisis – as we have seen – to rely on collective mobilization and intelligence. In the area of health democracy, Emmanuel Rusch, President of the National Health Conference, a consultative health parliament that brings together the various actors in the health care system, points out that since the beginning of the crisis, "none of the bodies has been mobilised by the public authorities, and when they have manifested themselves, their words have hardly been taken into account". Gérard Raymond, President of France Assos Santé, who brings together four-and-five associations of users and users of the healthcare system, and as such represents the official interlocutor of the public authorities since 2016, states that "healthy democracy has exploded from the first day. We were not involved in the panel of experts, nor were we involved in the decision to confine. We were not heard about the de-confinition and had to climb to the niche in an emergency at the end of August, when the draft decree on the return to work of vulnerable people was already closed. » There are many examples of this type, which truly illustrate the emptiness of a text with which one claims to improve and reform a forum of consultation, whereas at the very moment when those bodies should be seized, in the midst of a crisis, they are constantly despised, to the benefit of the defence council, whose role it is not to deliberate on health or environmental issues, and which nevertheless gives an opinion covered by the law of secrecy, and which is not responsible to anyone other than the power itself. In the democratic debate, this power preferred repressive and security escalation, even instrumentalizing the crisis to refuse Parliament to debate. This is the case with the laws we are discussing this week: the bill on the Internal Security Code a few moments ago; tomorrow, the proposal for a law on global security. We are witnessing a lockdown of the security continuum of macronia, which is the absolute antithesis of what the Government and its majority claim to do today with this text. Indeed, the Government and the majority see precisely the people and all democratic decision-making bodies as dangerous instruments, which must be restricted. The group La France insoumise opposes this vision. In the face of the challenges of ecological bifurcation and democratic reform, we cannot endorse an organic bill that resembles a derisory ridicule. That is why we will not support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u165	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u166	Reforming our democratic system is a necessity, as we see every day the shortness of our institutions. Citizens have less and less confidence in political speech; concertation places are under-used, intermediate bodies too often, and wrongly, vilipened and weakened. It is not a crisis of citizen engagement: it exists on a daily basis, the period of crisis that we are going through bears witness to this. Nor is it the result of a lack of interest in the affairs of the city, or of a fall on oneself, to the detriment of the general interest; But the lack of a place for active and deliberative democracy hinders dialogue between citizens and their representatives, and consequently weakens the legitimacy of the political project and decision-making. In this sense, the EESC is an institution that I believe is useful; It can indeed be reformed, but its importance is not only due to its very structure. Yes, we can reform the EESC, but if we remain everywhere in this verticality of power inherent in the Fifth Republic, we will not achieve the objective set. Look at Parliament's place: it is far from satisfactory; the representatives of the nation, elected by universal suffrage, have very little initiative of the laws, and by a whole series of mechanisms, our votes can be bypassed – second deliberation, blocked vote, reserved vote. The more the legislatures pass and the less the political discourse, yet vector of popular education and action, has its place in public life. Finally, only the executive never loses its power. Therefore, wanting to give the citizens' initiative its full place, without reforming our institutions, is a vain attempt. With this draft organic law, the Government proposes to make some adjustments to the functioning of the EESC. Some are positive, such as lowering the threshold of petitions to 150,000 signatures, as well as the age required at 16 – which is not a gameism issue, as I was able to hear during the debates in the Senate. Others are potentially, provided they are properly framed, such as the drawing of lots. However, I am opposed to a reduction in the number of members, which does nothing but reduce representativeness. I am concerned about the reform of article 7 of the 1958 Ordinance, which considerably reduces the obligations regarding the representativeness of the various fields of society. We had alerted you at first reading, quite rightly, about the overseas representation. Your amendment, Minister, is moving in the right direction. I would also like to draw your attention to the college representing young people in their diversity. My work with Mr Sandrine Mörch, in the committee of inquiry to measure and prevent the effects of the covid-19 crisis on children and young people, has shown serious shortcomings in listening to and taking their words into account. If we do not guarantee their presence in the EESC, we will only amplify the phenomenon. We have also received a representative from the EESC Youth College, who told us about the considerable amount of work that has been done, demonstrating the effectiveness of their representation. Finally, I would like to warn you of the consequences of Article 6, which is intended to dispense with the consultation, which is provided for by law, of a number of structures, as soon as the EESC is seized; I think it's dangerous, because it's very blurry. I therefore share the will of the Council of State to see this article disappear. The EESC's work lacks value, that is true. But the reasons are not just about how it works. It is up to us, who are ultimately the ones who vote the laws, to consider their work. In my reflection on sport, I have taken on board reports from the EESC – I am thinking in particular of Muriel Hurtis and Françoise Sauvageot. On the other hand, I have not been able to take full advantage of the EESC's opinion on the draft law on the programming of research because, unfortunately, it happened during its examination. This report was also unanimous against the text – the executive did not give it a second attention. With 25% fewer members or the digital petition, I do not think the future of this report would have been different. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Any reform of the EESC will therefore have only a marginal impact if we continue with the same institutional system. To give power to Parliament, to strengthen the communes, places par excellence of the exercise of citizenship, and to increase the places of listening and exchange, that would be favourable to democracy. Support for the voluntary world is also essential, as it often represents the gateway to engagement. This chamber of the future can only exist within a new republic. Therefore, in accordance with its ambition to see it happen, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u167	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u168	When it was established in 1946, the EESC was first the Economic Council. The Constitution of the Fifth Republic added social competence, and the constitutional revision of July 2008, an environmental competence, to make it become the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. Its 233 members may be seized by the Government, by the President of one of the two chambers, or by themselves. Referral is compulsory for economic, social and environmental matters. The EESC may also be seized of a particular subject, since a petition brings together at least 500,000 signatures. These democratic means of expression have made its strength. In the absence of an external referral to the Government and the public, as well as a lack of visibility and readability, the EESC is mostly self-referencing. However, it is studying petitions, even when they do not reach the 500,000 signatures. Unfortunately, however, his work has remained little known and little exploited. That is why it is necessary to change the Council and to modernise it, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic and at the request of the citizens, expressed during the great national debate and the citizens' convention for the climate. Through this draft organic law, we therefore assign to the EESC a threefold function: to inform public authorities on economic, social and environmental issues, to receive and deal with petitions in a renovated environment, and to renew its role as a mirror of civil society, becoming the crossroads of public consultations. That is why we proposed at first reading to revise the criteria for petitions, with the reduction of the number of signatories to 150000 and the age required at 16, in order to encourage young people to participate in the public debate, and with modernised access through the use of the digital channel, the reduction of processing times and the removal of the geographical criterion. We have also clarified the mechanism for consultation and public participation, through the establishment of an appropriate draw process with guarantees: the appointment of guarantors, appropriate representation for the purpose of consultation and balanced territorial representation, including the overseas territories and respect for parity. The establishment of a follow-up committee to propose changes on the composition of the EESC at the end of each term of office was also decided, such as the adoption of a code of ethics. At first reading, the Senate went back to these provisions. With regard to the possibility for the EESC to organise public consultations and to use the method of drawing lots for citizens, he felt that participation and citizen agreements could not replace democratic deliberation. Senators also refuse to allow the Government, when consulting the EESC on a bill, not to carry out further prior consultations. Finally, they chose to restore the requirement of geographical diversity for the right to petition and increased the membership of the EESC, which would include 193 members. The interesting and constructive discussions of the CMP did not lead to an agreement on public consultations, drawing of lots, geographical representation and exemption from prior consultation in certain areas. At the re-reading in committee, we re-established the abolition of the geographical criterion and public consultations by drawing lots; we have provided a new guarantee to ensure appropriate representation of the public concerned; We have also reinstated Article 6, which states that when the EESC is consulted on a bill, the Government is exempt from prior consultations; We have amended Article 7, which amends its composition, by reducing by 25 per cent the number of its members, in accordance with the request of the President of the Republic, to 175 members, representatives of civil society. We organise a harmonised distribution within the four categories, with overseas representation in the third. Article 11 is intended to establish the submission of an annual activity report. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I stress the role that the EESC must play in our society as a key player in social democracy. It is a body of citizen participation, whose aim is to promote participatory democracy, in complementarity with representative democracy. It is an advisory body, whose role is to make recommendations on the chosen themes, within the framework of its social, economic and environmental mission, and to make proposals. It is important to hear the citizens' request to become more actively involved in the public debate, in order to enrich our parliamentary exchanges – the two chambers retaining their prerogatives as legislators. I would like to thank the rapporteur, the administrators of the Assembly and the group, as well as the law commissioners for making this text evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u169	Mrs Isabelle Florennes has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u170	Today we are completing the consideration of the draft organic law on the Economic, Social and Environmental Council. It was a debate that met the challenges of this important text. It was absolutely necessary to reach a conclusion on this matter, because it was a commitment we had made and the expectations of our fellow citizens in this regard were – and remain – very strong. I believe that with this bill, in the version of our work in the Law Committee, we are giving the EESC its full place and, in doing so, we are laying the foundations for a fair balance between participatory democracy and representative democracy. First, with our fellow senators, we reaffirmed the importance of the EESC's citizen referral by reducing the number of necessary signatures and dematerializing the procedures. This is not an insignificant development because it will make it easier for our citizens to seize the Council. It is a tool that is now within reach of everyone, and which I hope will no longer be underemployed. Similarly, with our rapporteur's proposal to lower the age required for referral to 16 years, we send a strong signal to young people: they are willing to commit, we give them every means to do so. We sincerely welcome this. In addition to these measures which give more flexibility to the Council's referral, we have also been able to make progress on its representativeness. Again, in agreement with the Senate, we have been able to remove the presence of qualified personalities, which, I am sure, will give the College of Members greater legitimacy. In the same spirit, I welcome the contributions of the Senate to the ethical rules to which Council members must respond. This is not negligible, because it is also a way of guaranteeing the legitimacy of their work. Finally, our discussions allowed us to move forward on the place we wanted to give the EESC in a more comprehensive way. Unfortunately, on this subject, we have not been able to agree with our fellow senators who chose to delete Article 6, which opened the possibility for the Government to consult the EESC in the context of the examination of certain bills. We chose to re-establish this article in the drafting that we had achieved after our discussions, during the first reading examination. Two flats, however, remain. The first concerns the representation of the ultramarine territories. I regret that we have not been able to find a satisfactory solution; We have not been able to go any further than that of our colleague rapporteur, and that is a pity. The second flat, broader, relates to the resources allocated to the Council. It is in a way the blind spot of the text and it is a point on which we will have to move at all costs because it also depends on the proper functioning of the institution. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem groups and on some benches of the LaREM group]] As you will understand, the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Related Democrats will vote for this organic bill, which, to be noted, has a broad consensus. I conclude by welcoming the commitment of the rapporteur, Mr Erwan Balanant. I know the work he has done on the subject in this text and beyond. I know the convictions that enliven him and I tell him again our full support.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u171	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u172	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u173	First of all, I would like to welcome the work done by our rapporteur in a very constrained framework. I would also like to thank him and Mrs. Dubré-Chirat for the commitment that has enabled us, together with the Government, to lay down ethical rules for any institution. In the preamble, I would point out that the reduction in the number of EESC members, if it certainly has the advantage of being praised, does not in fact provide any guarantee as to the performance of the reflection or the quality of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u175	Thus, while we could have invited new members to the EESC discussion table, many major players are excluded, such as academics or representatives of the arts and culture. What a pity not to take advantage of an institution's review to broaden its base! I will also make four observations. First, Article 2, providing for the possibility for the Government and Parliament to refer the EESC for an opinion, was deleted in the Senate. Article 70 of the Constitution provides that the Council may be "consulted by the Government and Parliament on any problem of an economic, social and environmental nature". The Senate considered that to be sufficient. He therefore knows that Parliament means either the Assembly, or the Senate, or both. The National Assembly, in its wisdom, had specified this duality in the initiative. The parliamentary debate will have to shed some light on it. It is a pity, however, that the organic law does not specify this, including by opening the referral to a parliamentary minority introduced by our dynamic assembly. Secondly, the re-establishment of Article 4 by the Law Commission of the National Assembly is a good decision. This is a flagship provision of the bill; deleting it would remove any interest in the text. The openness to citizen participation satisfies those who, like me, have been campaigning for years for citizen expression to be solicited by all means. We are also proposing the extension of this mechanism by introducing the possibility, for a parliamentary minority – and not just for the government and the presidents of the assemblies – to ask the Council to resort to public consultation. I look forward to the same dynamism as I saw on this subject at first reading during the examination of Article 2. In this connection, it should be recalled that the citizen's word must be taken into consideration by all bodies which issue public decisions or notices, and cannot be understood as being reserved for a single institution. In this register, citizens' petitions remain within the scope of the National Assembly. I would like to address Mr Pancher here: it seemed useful to us that the EESC could be the organiser of a consultation called for by parliamentarians and the Senate, and by the National Assembly. Thirdly, we agree with the will of the Senate, which has deleted Article 6, not to make the EESC the priority consultative assembly. However, if the Government intends to self-censor itself by limiting its consultations to that of the EESC, Parliament will always be able to hear the rejected advisory bodies. Moreover, at a time when citizen consultation is being used, we find it inconsistent to exclude other forms of consultation. Finally, the establishment of ethical rules must be a prerequisite for any institution and the EESC cannot escape this requirement. I commend the work done on this subject in good intelligence with the Government, which has led to the introduction of a code, an ethics body, an obligation to declare interests and transparency on the representative allowance for mandate expenses. It is still worth recalling that it is not a question of maintaining a culture of suspicion but rather of defining rules of operation expected by our fellow citizens and of fostering a culture of reflection on the quality of public action. Finally, we are far from the assembly of the future that we had envisaged when we, together with our friend Claude Bartolone, thought about a reform of our institutions, as we are far from a reform of our institutions expected by our citizens. It is regrettable that academics do not have a full place in the EESC, making it an open assembly on research and scientific rigour. While the reform has the merit of opening the Council to citizen speech, it is a pity that this opportunity is not being seized to make it a better tool for foresight working in the long term alongside Parliament. [[Applause on the SOC Group benches, as well as on the committee bench]] Despite the deep regret I have just expressed, the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u176	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u177	We are gathered to review this text, which aims to reform and renovate this third institution, after the Senate and the National Assembly, which is the EESC. Of course, the Group of the European People's Party supports this text, even if it wishes to discuss matters which we consider essential. First of all, I welcome three positive developments. We want to make the EESC the focal point for public consultations. In fact, we note the improvement of the citizens' petition procedure, thanks to the reduction of the response time, the lowering of the admissibility threshold to 150000 signatures and the minimum age of signatories to 16 years, and of course the integration of the practice of public consultation by drawing lots. I would like once again to thank the rapporteur, the committee and the Government, who have heard the remarks I made in committee at the first reading and agreed to clarify that the drawing of lots should ensure a balanced representation of the territories, particularly the overseas territories. However, I would have preferred the text to clarify that the overseas representatives would be "from the three Atlantic, Indian and Pacific ocean basins". I assure you that what may seem obvious to us in this House is not so clear in everyday practice. We have already seen that. On this point, we collectively learned the lessons of the failure of the civic convention for climate, in which, even if our presence was obvious to all, we were forgotten. I do not make any accusations of malice, but, very often, when we are 10000 or 20,000 kilometers away, we are naturally forgotten. That is why, whenever possible, our presence must be specified in the texts. As for the rest of the debate, the most important thing for us is representation. We do not wish that, in this organic bill, overseas countries will once again be the adjustment variable, even if this may not be the case in the minds of those who support it. In recent years, this has often been the case: in the law on the election of representatives to the European Parliament or in the law ASAP – speeding up and simplifying public action – which abolished the CNEPEOM – National Commission for the Evaluation of State Policies Overseas. We do not appear in many texts of national scope. This is still the case with this organic bill. Thus, the voice of our communities within the institution will be removed, even if it is necessary. These are two very different things than the presence of a college of overseas members and that of overseas members scattered in various colleges. You know this: at the EESC, each member of a group carries his DNA in him and in his analysis. That makes all the difference. I have noted, minister, that from the outset you have wanted to reduce our representation to eight members. Thank you for your amendment: to freeze in the law the presence of the overseas in the college of territories is already a step forward. The question remains of the number of our representatives. On this point, I have a final proposal to make, in the form of a sub-amendment that I have just tabled. I still don't know if he'll be declared admissible, but I'm really asking you to think about it. I understand that you want to reduce representation by 25% overall and that, of course, everyone says that if each territory has to make an effort, that is also the case in the overseas region. However, we insist that each territory be represented. Can we not guarantee overseas that out of 175 seats, it will occupy eleven, or 6% of the total number? You are about to reduce the number of our representatives from eleven to eight. For hexagon, a quarter difference won't change anything. For us, she'll change everything. For naturally and legitimately, everything separates us: geography, history, climate, statutes. Each territory has its own legal peculiarities, which are almost tailor-made. The overseas world needs to be heard, as it is in this assembly. Do you honestly think I can speak here on behalf of New Caledonia? Do you think our colleagues in Saint-Martin or Wallis-et-Futuna can speak on behalf of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon? I have noted your argument that it is the role of the Senate to represent the communities. I agree, but the role of EESC members is to represent not communities but citizens. That's what bothers me. While the aim of this reform is to modernise the EESC and make it the crossroads of citizen expression, could it not be granted at least 11 out of 175 members overseas?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Sage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u179	One more word: I tabled an amendment to increase by three the number of ultramarine representatives in the College of Social and Territorial Cohesion and Association Life, which would thus increase from forty-five members to forty-eight. Its adoption would allow us, historically, to preserve the representation of all the territories in the EESC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u180	I get it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u181	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor – for a maximum of five minutes, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u182	[[Smile]] I feel you very direct, Mr. President! We come together to discuss this important text on the EESC following the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, despite which, in my view, we have made progress. The EESC, whose title has varied, is an old institution of our republican regimes; It is not a completely new creation of the Fifth Republic. Since 2008, it has been not only "economic and social" but also "environmental", which is the mark of our collective attention to it. His interest is to associate the intermediary bodies, associations, professional and trade union federations, but also the territories – I turn to Maina Sage, who has just rightly argued for a better representation of the overseas countries. What has been said about the EESC? Is this a room? A convention? A piece of advice, certainly! One thing is certain: it plays a necessary, if not indispensable, role that we readily acknowledge, provided that everyone remains "in his place". While this expression may seem a bit trivial or clumsy, it is worth recalling that it is in no way a third chamber of the Republic, which would compete with Parliament, composed of the National Assembly and the Senate. This does not mean that we are disinterested in what the EESC is doing. On the contrary, I think that we are not sufficiently concerned with his views, which are always of high quality, and with the work he is doing. In a rather easy way, in the whirlwind of comments, public opinion is honey to an alleged inactivity of the EESC as well as to the remuneration and certain advantages of its members, which, in my view, is very unfair. It is important, with a constant constitutional scope – and I insist – not only to improve the conditions for EESC intervention, but also to extend the scope of this intervention. For these reasons, we have looked very kindly at the recommendations made by Mr Bernasconi, President of the EESC, and the proposals made by the Government and our parliamentary colleagues. Nevertheless, some disagreements remain, on more or less salient points. With regard to the right to petition, we have not reached an agreement on the number of petitioners required: if the threshold of 500,000 originally foreseen was obviously too high, we may have been a little too generous by bringing it down to 150000. We fear that too frequent a recourse to petitions will lead to a form of embolism, and that this procedure will not be trivialised, which is obviously not the aim sought. On the other hand, let us not create vain hopes that could not be met, especially in the event that proposals do not receive the expected listening – this risk is not entirely theoretical. As for the right to petition from 16 years of age, why not, provided that this does not involve advancing from 18 to 16 years of age the entry into citizenship. There is a need for clarity on this point as well. Two major questions remain. First point: the recognition of citizens drawn by lot. Associate such "jurors" on a case-by-case basis, why not, but in a framed manner and without the obligation of result. Such citizens should not replace Parliament or feel they have a quasi-Messianic mission and impose their conclusions on society before they have been valued, debated and adopted by Parliament. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and Activité ens groups]] The second and final point, which has not been decided, is the question of the overseas countries, which cover 11 million square kilometres and have singularities which distinguish them clearly from other territories or regions. Several million of our fellow citizens live there; They need to be represented. It is up to us to move forward tonight on this issue, so that the ultramarines do not feel excluded – it is not the intention of anyone, neither ours nor yours, minister, I am sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u183	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u184	I now call in the committee's text the articles of the organic bill on which the two assemblies have not been able to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u185	Mr Paul Molac's amendment No 44 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u186	He's unfavorable. We have discussed this in committee, and Mr. Keeper of the Seals has explained our approach to this matter before.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u187	Amendment No 5 by Mrs Cécile Untermaier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u188	We have already discussed this point. However, I would like to say a few words about this, as Mrs Untermaier has worked very hard on the subject. EESC members represent precisely interests; This is what underpins the legitimacy of the institution. Therefore, the notion of independence is complicated to handle. Hence the wording we have chosen for Article 4, which already goes far enough and responds to questions from civil society actors. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn, because it is not entirely adapted to the device we have built.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u190	My position is identical to that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u191	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u192	This one, I won't take it off. It aims to introduce, in Article 4, the possibility of referral to the EESC by a minority of parliamentarians, as provided for in Article 2. In our view, it would be interesting to allow a minority of parliamentarians to call on the EESC to consult the public. As it stands, only the Government and the presidents of the parliamentary assemblies can initiate such a procedure. Citizens' conventions must also be created on the initiative of a minority of parliamentarians. Referral to the Constitutional Council has been open to 60 deputies or senators since 1974; It is time to allow a minority of parliamentarians to refer the matter to the EESC. In this way, the EESC will be able to play its full role and, in addition, Parliament could be revitalized. I hear the argument about the unconstitutionality of such a proposal. However, there is no obvious reason for this. Article 70 of the Constitution is particularly vague, since it provides that the EESC "can be consulted by the Government and Parliament". A literal interpretation would lead to consultation of the EESC only on the condition that the two parliamentary assemblies jointly seize it – since it is "Parliament" that is targeted. Nevertheless, obviously, the grantor intended to give the legislator a great deal of latitude in determining the conditions for parliamentary consultation. Therefore, there is no prohibition and everything recommends that a minority of parliamentarians be allowed to seek the opinion of the EESC or to request public consultation. The amendment concerns this second possibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u194	I would like to thank you for withdrawing the previous amendment. As far as this proposal is concerned, we discussed it at length at first reading. If we do not legislate in iso-constitution, I would be very supportive of it, as I said. However, contrary to what you say, the Constitution is clear about this and imposes constraints on us. At this stage of our discussions, I do not want to take the risk that the robust, robust mechanism that we have built in Article 4 will be declared unconstitutional. This risk is significant. I therefore express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u196	We've had this discussion before. My analysis and position are identical to that of the rapporteur. The Government is against your amendment, Mrs Untermaier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u197	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u198	I do not claim that the risk of unconstitutionality is completely ruled out, but sometimes the legislator can take a few risks. In this case, this is worth it, because it is a matter of defending minorities. Ms. Untermaier referred to the 1974 reform, which extended the possibility of referral to the Constitutional Council to 60 deputies or senators. Originally, its scope was somewhat underestimated. Now, we know with hindsight, it has been a major reform, one of the major reforms of President Giscard d'Estaing – to whom I extend my best wishes for recovery. Giving the opportunity not only to the President of the Assembly – whom I respect, and the President of the sitting will be my spokesperson on this point – and to the President of the Senate, but also to the opposition to refer the matter to the EESC would make it possible to involve the various components of national political life more closely. Since our will is to involve the EESC more closely, it is important that national representation should also be able to ask for it, in its diversity. This is a good proposal. The Republican Group will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u199	[[Smile]] Thank you for seeing in me your spokesman, Mr. Gosselin. Mrs Laetitia Avia has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u200	At the first reading, I supported the amendments to Article 2, which were intended to give minority groups the opportunity to refer the matter to the EESC. Unfortunately, this Article 2 was deleted as a result of the parliamentary shuttle. In this case, Ms Untermaier, the wording you are proposing raises a difficulty: what is a "minority of parliamentarians"? Is it ten parliamentarians, twenty parliamentarians or a minority group? It is a pity that you have retained this expression. Therefore, it is better to keep to the balance that we have found in committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u201	Would you like to add one more word, Mrs. Untermaier?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u202	The question is still important, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u203	Very important, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u204	The challenge is the possibility for Parliament to develop dynamic action with the EESC. Furthermore, it is important for the EESC to know whether it can be asked regularly and play a useful role in serving national representation. It was out of caution, Mrs. Avia, that we retained the phrase "a minority of parliamentarians." This would leave it to the chair of each of the assemblies to determine the number of members or senators who could initiate the procedure. In addition, you intend to reduce the number of parliamentarians. By not sealing, in the organic law, the number of parliamentarians required, we will address your concerns. The majority had adopted amendments to Article 2, which were intended to extend the referral to the EESC to 60 Members or 60 Senators. It should also adopt this amendment, which corresponds to a requirement that we make our own: to make Parliament live. To the extent that we vote on the laws, it is essential that we have the ability to initiate public consultation. It would not be political instrumentalisation by an opposition, as some honourable senators have said, but simply the possibility for us to take proactive action, in line with the reform of the EESC that you wanted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u205	The rapporteur's amendment No 21 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, it is nineteen thirty hours, theoretical time for the afternoon sitting to be adjourned. However, I propose that we consider the thirty-nine amendments that are still under discussion, provided that we do so quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u208	Let us set the time horizon for a meeting to be adjourned at 20.00 p.m. If we could not complete the examination of the text by then, I would adjourn the meeting and see each other a little later in the evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u209	It would be a pleasure, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u210	Amendment No 52 by Mr Bertrand Pancher is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u211	We had the debate in committee. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u212	As our colleague Lorho is absent, and without having looked at the substance of his amendments, I would like to defend them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u213	The rule, Mr Gosselin, is that an amendment can only be defended by a member of the same group as the signatory. I don't think you're part of the same group as Mrs Lorho.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u214	That's right. I wanted to be elegant and gallant.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u215	[[Smile]] And your proposal was.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u216	I call Mrs Cécile Untermaier to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u217	I find it regrettable that the Government is self-censoring and limiting its consultations by renouncing, because it has referred the matter to the EESC, to consult one or another. You don't know what tomorrow will be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u218	Not necessarily.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u219	This is a bit of a pity, and I am consoled by the fact that Parliament will perhaps consult the bodies and associations which you now consider to be of little interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u221	As it stands, the Government may, if it so wishes, not self-censor and continue as it is today. I understand your reservations; We all had at the beginning of the discussion of the text, and the article was rewritten by an amendment of the Government to provide guarantees by excluding certain advisory committees from this provision. In addition, the Committee added an important element in a new reading: if it so wishes, the EESC will be able to seek the opinion of the relevant advisory bodies to inform its work. In reality, the EESC will benefit from a subrogation while still having the possibility of not depriving itself of the expertise of the existing committees. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u223	Unfavorable opinion for the same reasons as those which have just been made clear by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u225	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u226	I will not withdraw the amendment because I find this article regrettable at a time when, on the contrary, we should open the discussion and ensure that public action is carried out by as many actors as possible. I do not see the usefulness of reserving the exclusive to the EESC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u227	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u228	[[Smile]] I understand that we do not want to increase referrals and expertise. This argument would be valid if we had not cleaned the Theodule committees in recent years – if you pass the phrase on to me. Today we have a set of authorities and advice that stand the way and that can bring a different and complementary look, without short-circuiting the EESC; It would be a shame to deprive us of their expertise at a time when certain issues are increasingly technical and delicate. It is sometimes interesting to get an informed opinion. We will not make it a matter of principle, but it would be regrettable if this amendment were not adopted – which has not yet been done, my dear colleague Untermaier. You must never despair!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u229	Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u230	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 16 and 38. Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u231	The order establishing the Economic and Social Council provided for the representation of all humanly inhabited ultramarine territories. The reform presented goes back to that provision. To remove representativeness is to omit a part of France and it is to weaken citizen democracy at a time when many are asking for our particularities to be taken into account. That is why the amendment proposes, as in the version adopted by the Senate and as has been the case since its creation, the retention of the eleven ultramarine members of the EESC.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u232	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 38.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u233	This amendment was tabled on the initiative of Olivier Serva and co-signed by several of our colleagues, particularly ultramarine ones. I have already touched on the subject in the general discussion: it is an almost philosophical question for us, that of the way in which the Overseas Territories are envisaged, the relationship between the State and them, their presence and their visibility at national level. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I understand the national logic of reducing the number of members; If we insist, it is not out of whim, it is not because we absolutely cling to representation for each territory, it is because it is necessary. When you look at these territories, everything is different from hexagon, but everything is different there, too, from one territory to another, because each of them has a different history and specificities. Nor is it a matter of consideration, because I know that you have some for us – we have talked about it recently on matters of justice. It's a question of understanding the issues. Understand that we are really weakened today in terms of national representation. I will give one example: the reform of the European elections. All of us here thought we were doing well by going to a list poll that made us lose representation by ocean basin; As a result of the races, we have two Members of the European Parliament who are both from La Réunion. However, it was not for lack of alerting the Government and the majority. In some time, we will find ourselves in the same situation, and it will be a loss not to have an exhaustive representation. The amendment proposed by our colleague Mr Serva, identical to those of Mrs Benin and Mr Naillet, therefore proposes to add the eleven overseas representatives by increasing the total number of members from 175 to 186.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u234	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u235	I will provide a comprehensive response to the amendments concerning the number of members or the reorganisation of colleges. I had proposed the same solution as you in committee, but I will agree with the one proposed by the Government, and I will tell you why. The work of the Senate has shown that the solution we adopted at first reading on the balanced representation of the territory, and especially of the overseas countries, is not fully satisfactory because it does not guarantee that this representation is guaranteed among the EESC members. I therefore proposed to add, in the four categories that we have defined, a fifth category specific to overseas countries, indicating the number of eleven members, thus maintaining the status quo – this is a proposal that goes far enough, in view of the desire to reduce the total number of members, but I have taken into account your concerns. However, this solution has two important flaws. First of all, it does not make it possible to meet the objective of reducing the number of EESC members to 175, an objective of the majority that we were many to defend on these benches. The second and most disturbing point is that it calls into question the consultations and agreements reached within the EESC itself on the distribution of members within each category. The wisest would be to hear the Government's proposal for clarification, the amendment of which was intended to include clearly the presence of overseas representatives in the organic law. This is a great step forward, because this guarantee did not exist before, and your disorder was justified. I therefore ask you to trust the EESC, which has committed itself to ensuring that overseas members retain the same role and visibility in the new composition. For this reason, I will be against all the amendments concerning the composition of the EESC, with the exception of Amendment No 45 of the Government and the identical amendment No 43 of my colleague Dubré-Chirat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u236	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u237	[[Smile]] The Government expresses an unfavourable opinion in favour of the amendment it has tabled itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u238	I have before me two amendments, Nos 18 and 27, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 18 by Mr Jean Lassalle is being defended. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u239	I hear the rapporteur's arguments – which I thank, because I know how you listened to the Overseas Territories. Here, we propose to maintain the number of members at 175 by retouching, if necessary, the other colleges. Initially, the perspective was that of a distribution of ultramarine representation within the various colleges; The amendment therefore seeks to remove two places in the College of Employees, two in the College of Enterprises, five in the College of Social and Territorial Cohesion and two in the College of the Environment, in order to re-create a fifth college of eleven representatives.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u240	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u241	Amendment No 18 is completely different from Amendment No 27, and I do not know why they are under joint discussion. Unfavorable opinion on No 18, which we have already discussed at length. As for Amendment No 27, although I understand the logic, it poses a problem, because it goes back to the balances resulting from an agreement between the current EESC representatives, which is the result of a long and delicate work – obviously, when we decide to reduce the number of members by 25%, everyone has fears. The work of Mr Bernasconi, his team and EESC members has led to a balance that this amendment would defeat.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u242	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u243	Opinion unfavourable to the amendment tabled by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u244	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 8 and 9, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u245	The Socialist and Related Group has difficulty in designing an Economic, Social and Environmental Council, not including qualified personalities from the world of culture and the arts, but also academics. The aim is to bring the economic, social and cultural world together and, in our view, it takes precedence over the 25% reduction in the EESC members you want.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u246	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u247	We have already dealt with this subject at first reading. The choice we have made of a four-pronged organisation – employees; enterprises; social and territorial cohesion and associative life; protection of nature and the environment – led to not including in the draft organic law details of the activities represented. We leave it to the Committee and the Government to choose them every time the EESC is renewed to take account of developments in organised civil society. The Advisory Board will ensure a balance of activities. Your amendment is therefore satisfactory, Mrs Untermaier: tomorrow, youth, culture, education and communication will have representatives at the EESC, as they now have in one of the nine sections. To clarify this in the organic bill would require us to identify all activities and undermine the balance that we have achieved with these major four poles. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u248	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u249	We have already had this discussion, indeed. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u250	Amendments Nos 10 and 11 by Mr Dominique Potier are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u251	Mr Stéphane Claireaux has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u252	I heard the rapporteur's explanations earlier, but I am disappointed. The number of ultramarine members will increase from eleven to eight, but how will we choose the eight territories represented? Given the hexagon, all the overseas territories are similar, but the problems of Martinique are not those of Guadeloupe or those of Saint-Martin. I am afraid that when choosing the territories represented, Saint-Martin, Saint-Barthélémy and Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon – the three "Saint-" – will be sacrificed...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u253	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u254	Don't be too disappointed, Mr.Claireaux: we have made a lot of progress, as we now have the guarantee of eight ultramarine members. Let us recall that it did not exist in the original text and that we have come back to this error. Without repeating the debate, I repeat that the EESC members are not territorial representatives. We have made the choice to take into account the peculiarity of overseas,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u255	Another little effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u256	...but this is in no way territorial representation. This nuance is important and should not be forgotten. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u258	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u259	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u260	We are in the middle of the ford: to ensure a balanced representation, we need eleven ultramarine members, but the text foresees only eight. Another little effort! We cannot compare the territories of the West Indies with those of the Indian Ocean, the small archipelago of Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon and the islands of Polynesia. The exclusive economic zone of some overseas territories extends over a few tens of thousands of square kilometres, compared with several million square kilometres for others. If Guyana is as large as Portugal or Austria, Polynesia can be compared to Europe! Overseas territories do not have the territorial continuity of mainland France. Even Corsica, which is an island, remains, by its proximity, in the territorial continuity of the metropolis. While it is true that the composition of the EESC should not reflect the territories – which no one denies – it is essential to take into account the specificity of the overseas countries, which are home to 80% of French biodiversity, but also of cultures and peoples with diverse histories, whose singularity – and not the difference – deserves to find its place in French unity. [[Ms. Maina Sage and Mr. Stéphane Claireaux applaud]] We are missing unity in diversity! I have noted the positive developments in the text since the first reading, but a small effort is still needed: the number of ultramarine members of the EESC must be increased from eight to eleven.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u261	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 2, 3 and 15. Amendments No 2 by Mr Didier Baichère and No 3 by Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva are being defended. Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u262	I would point out, in the interests of transparency, that this amendment has been suggested by the French Centre for Funds and Foundations. He proposed that the foundations should be explicitly mentioned in the EESC's composition. Indeed, it would be good to repair this omission.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u263	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u264	These amendments are satisfied because the foundations are already being taken into account. If they were explicitly mentioned, then mention should be made of all the sectors represented. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u266	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u267	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u268	If he is satisfied, I shall withdraw the amendment. The French Centre for Funds and Foundations will be sensitive to this confirmation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u269	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 28, 39, 45, 43 and 40, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 45 and 43 are identical and are the subject of a sub-amendment, No 53. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u270	He pointed out that at least one representative from each of the ultramarine communities participated in the EESC's focus on social and territorial cohesion and associative life. I understand your position, Mr.Keeper of the Seals, but think, please, before the next reading of the Senate and following the parliamentary procedure. You have agreed to increase the number of ultramarine members to eight. Why not just give us three extra places? Such an increase would in no way prevent us from respecting the reduction in the number of EESC members by a quarter: by raising the total number of EESC members to 178 instead of 175, we would still be 24% down... [[Smile]] I will try to convince you to the end, Mr. Keeper of the Seals: until the final reading! One might think that three more members are not much, but it is essential for us and it is even more so at a time of the health and economic crisis that we are experiencing, an unprecedented crisis, a crisis that will soon be social. There is much more to lose than to win by removing three seats for the overseas. Maintaining them, on the other hand, would serve to demonstrate the listening of our territories and the Government's willingness to respond to their specific needs in the face of the crisis. The feeling of remoteness in all the overseas territories is blamed for decisions taken in the past. It is urgent to send a strong signal of listening and support to the overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u271	Amendment No 39 by Mr Max Mathiasin is being defended. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u272	I hear your arguments, ladies and gentlemen, but we have changed a lot, really, from the first reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u273	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u274	We all know that, and I hear Mr. Gosselin whispering it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u275	I confirm it out loud!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u276	We are not in systematic opposition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u277	We found it essential to provide the Overseas Territories with guarantees of their future presence in the EESC. The Government therefore proposes, by way of derogation, a specific reference in the third category to the overseas countries and territories to ensure that eight EESC members come from these territories. All EESC groups have experienced a 25% decrease in the number of their members. Do the calculation: applied to the eleven members of the overseas group, it gives 8,25 members. The balance we have achieved is the result of in-depth discussions and assurances on the effectiveness of ultramarine representation. The organic law therefore sets out the main principles of the EESC's new composition in four general categories. The decree will be taken after the opinion of the Prefiguration Committee, which is responsible for detailing this composition. However, we propose an exception to this paradigm by specifying in the text that the Overseas Group will not be harmed more than the others by the reduction in the number of EESC members. I would add that this amendment does not exclude the possibility that overseas representatives may be appointed in other categories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u278	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u279	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u280	I invite you to remember that. I have an opinion against Amendments Nos 28, 39 and 40 and an opinion in favour of Amendment No 43. Be sure, Mrs Sage, that we wish for a true representation of the overseas countries and territories. Nevertheless, the balances guaranteed by the text were complicated to find. We therefore believe that the wording proposed by the amendment is correct and in line with the commitments of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u281	Amendment No 43 by Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat is being defended. Mrs Maina Sage has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u282	I am sorry to speak again on this subject, but I would like to say to you, Mr Keeper of the Seals, that we are aware of the major effort made in favour of the overseas countries and that we thank you, the rapporteur and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We are pleased that the number of eight ultramarine members is now included in the law. Based on our discussions with the Government, we knew this likely number, but we are very pleased that it is now guaranteed by law as a minimum.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u283	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u284	In fact, the additional effort we are asking for today is not an effort: it is an investment in the overseas territories and in their visibility. I understand your position, but if all the Members from overseas, whatever their bench, unanimously support the same request, it is not for nothing! Three additional EESC members would obviously not change anything for ultramarine representation in the National Assembly, but that is essential. Civil society in these territories needs to be heard. In the National Assembly and the Senate, there are few overseas elected officials. A representation of all the ultramarine territories in the EESC would give us additional strength. That is the meaning of this sub-amendment of appeal, which was originally accompanied by another sub-amendment which was deemed inadmissible because we tabled it a little quickly. I would ask you to consider this subamendment before the next reading of the organic bill. All the proposals we discussed in favour of the overseas countries and territories concerned the number of eleven members. This sub-amendment, on the other hand, proposes three additional members, since eight members are already guaranteed. It is only a matter of increasing the total number of EESC members from 175 to 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u285	Amendment No 40 by Mr Max Mathiasin is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u286	Mr Gosselin, we take into account the singularity of the overseas countries, since they are the only territories that will be inscribed in the marble of this text. We still have to write it down!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u287	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u288	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u289	I am in favour of the identical amendments by Mrs Dubré-Chirat and the Government, and against the other amendments, as well as Mrs Sage's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u290	Minister, are you against the subamendment to the Government's amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u291	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u292	[[Smile]] You have the merit of consistency, Minister. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u293	A very small word to make sure that the minister hears me well, for I do not want to be the one who only whispers in the ear of the seal keeper; What I mean must be able to get along loud and clear. I indeed welcome – there is no irony, Minister, in my remarks – the real progress that the Government's amendment represents, in the light of our previous discussions. I maintain, however, that we are in the middle of the ford. Your demonstration is interesting: you say that the total number of EESC members will be reduced by 25%, and that overseas representatives are treated like others. But I know you enough, minister, to know that you are less an advocate of equality than of fairness. Fairness means increasing the number from eight to eleven.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u294	Another little effort!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u295	Amendments Nos 23 and 25 of the Committee are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u296	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u297	This amendment, of which Mrs Benin is the first signatory, aims to clarify the text by creating within the EESC a specific delegation to the Overseas Territories and another specific delegation to women's rights. [[Ms Nicole Dubré-Chirat and Ms Bénédicte Pételle applaud]] Much has been said during the various debates, but I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the qualified personalities who have worked within the EESC, in particular Mrs Ernestine Ronai, with whom I have had the opportunity to work on issues of domestic violence, and Mrs Marie-Claude Tjibaou, a Caledonian, who has served as a qualified personality in the EESC. While we are going to reform the EESC, I ask you, Mr Minister, to have a strong thought and a strong word for all these people to whom we must pay tribute because they have been able to serve the ultramarine cause, that of minorities and that of women, and because they have advanced our rights in these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u298	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u299	The amendment was satisfactory: the delegation to the overseas countries already existed, as was the delegation on women's rights and equality. Request for withdrawal, or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u300	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u301	Same position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u302	Amendment No 22 of the committee is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u303	We have completed our review of the articles of the Organic Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u304	I put the whole organic bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-11-16-O1079.u305	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Solemn vote on the finance bill for 2021; Reading the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee on the research programming bill for the years 2021 to 2030; Discussion of the proposal for a law on global security. The meeting is adjourned.
