ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u1	The next item is the discussion of the draft organic law on social debt and autonomy (No. 3018, 3066) and the draft law on social debt and autonomy (No. 3019, 3067). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a common general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u2	The Secretary of State to the Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u3	The text we are looking at may seem technical, but it commits, far beyond the figures, a project of solidarity as the country has not known for a very long time. By proposing a new debt recovery by the Social Debt Depreciation Fund – CADES – it responds to a short-term need, given the situation we are going through and which we are all concerned about, but is also a tool through which we can face the great challenges of our time. The short time and the long time, these are the two pens with which this bill was drafted: the short time of the circumstances, marked by unprecedented shocks, and the long time of ambitions, because we know that solidarity must adapt to the changing face of French society. A few months ago, this bill would certainly be considered a science fiction manuscript waiting for a publisher. The return to the balance of social accounts was close, and we were about to close the CADES, after twenty-eight years of existence, to clear the past debt. Then a health crisis fell brutally on the whole world, and this manuscript suddenly changed its register while, at least temporarily, there were substantial deficits. The Government regrets it as much as you do. The time is still near, when we were waiting for a return to balance. Therefore, why now undertake a debt recovery? Because it is essential to ensure the financing of social security. The latter's cash flow is managed by the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies (ACOSS) and is subject to a borrowing maturity requirement: they may not exceed 12 months. However, this cash flow, which was filled with 30 billion euros of past deficits, was subject to very high tensions, as a result of the measures adopted during the crisis. Even in the event of a rebound in the economy – a rebound that we all expect, and to which the entire Government is working – future deficits will be inevitable. As a result, only a large transfer can allow CADES to make investments on a long, more secure horizon, and only a debt recovery will protect us from the risk of having to shift the payment of benefits, one day, due to a lack of funding. Let us not lose sight of the fact that the public hospital, put to such a severe test in recent weeks and months, would find in this recovery both air and visibility – without prejudging the forthcoming conclusions of the Segur of Health. What this text proposes is an operation of good management of social security, which renews the commitment to repay debts, part of which stems from the current crisis. It is also to respect the principles of 1996, according to which social debt must be managed virtuously and absolved in the main. In concrete terms, this means that we need to extend the period during which we will mobilize revenue to repay the debt, nine more years, from 2024 to 2033. Through this act of responsibility, we will prevent the social system from getting into debt without limits, and we will guarantee its sustainability for our children. On the occasion of this commitment, we are laying the foundation for the long-awaited and repeatedly announced reform of the loss of autonomy. The text prepares the creation of a new branch of social security to cover our citizens against the risk of loss of autonomy. In 1945, it was decided to create public social insurance against the risk of sickness or industrial injury. Today, we are choosing a new public insurance against a new risk that all French people can face. Everyone knows that a demographic wall is emerging: in 2040, almost 15% of French people, or 10.6 million people, will be 75 years old or older – that's twice as much as today. "The Welfare State of the 21st Century" is not an expression intended to adorn a discourse. It is a requirement, to protect everyone, from the first to the last breath. The creation of a fifth branch is probably the most beautiful thing a Minister of Solidarity and Health can announce. The robust social state we want to build, we will create it with the great social security, which is not afraid to be ambitious. I welcome the remarkable work that has been done in the special committee: parliamentarians know that this fifth branch is not an administrative construction, but a vital necessity, in a country that is ageing and that accompanies everyone to the end. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all very attached to social security; The French are also, and rightly so, because it is a national treasure. In the face of the uncertainties of the future – and even today, as the current situation combines uncertainties with the present – social protection is more than ever a framework of reference and stability. The present and the future, we cannot simply look at them by crossing our fingers and hoping that everything will go well! We must arm ourselves to confront them, if not with optimism, at least with confidence. For too long, like a funambule on the steep rope, we have been oscillating between budgetary constraints that limit our room for manoeuvre and new risks, which appear in massive proportions. The aim of this text is to increase these room for manoeuvre and to face French society as it has become. While this text may seem somewhat arid, it is in fact bold. More than ever, circumstances force us to be bold. The text is also ambitious, and it is all the more so because it is responsible, that is, realistic in its objectives and demanding in the immense stakes it faces. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are emerging from a historical collective test, from a shock that will mark an entire generation and have its place in history books. Let's be at the rendezvous of this story, and be responsible. To be responsible, under the circumstances we know, is not to be cold, it is to be ambitious. The founding fathers of social security were not mistaken in building a treasure on a world of ruins: only solidarity can give back prospects to a society that is in doubt, and that we have a duty to raise. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u4	Mr Paul Christophe, rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Organic Bill, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u5	Opportunities to amend the Organic Law on Social Security Financing Acts have been rare since its adoption in 1996, and have always marked very special moments in the history of social finance. 1996 saw the emergence of social security financing laws, which allowed Parliament to examine the budget in a manner appropriate to the nature of the expenditure. The CADES was born that same year, in a financial context still weakened by the 1993 economic and financial crisis. In 2005 a maturity review took place, which allowed all the basic mandatory schemes to be incorporated into the financing laws, doubled the annual year of a multi-year vision, or detailed the national target of health insurance expenditure – ONDAM – into sub-objectives, in order to better identify the expenditure covered. Then, in 2010, there was a review of circumstances, mainly due to the need to transfer to CADES a significant amount of debt related to the 2008-2009 crisis, which had to be postponed and the amortization process secured. This is not without its similarity to the subject we are debating today. Everyone can therefore remember that in the face of exogenous economic shocks, for which social security was in no way responsible, the legislator was able to decide, as a matter of responsibility, to postpone the horizon of amortization of social debt. This brief historical reminder sheds light on the permanence and specificities of the organic review which is submitted to Parliament just under ten years later. The permanences are obviously due to the particularly difficult financial context in which public finances in general, and social finances in particular, are located. Once again, a crisis largely exogenous to the management of social security has increased structural difficulties of balance. Once again, there is no question that this additional deficit – hence debt – will be borne by an agency that, despite the high quality of its management, is not the right tool to do so. The specificities of this text are obviously due to the context of the current crisis, of unprecedented violence, but also to the way in which we approach this problem in our turn. While proposing a technical solution to the new financing needs of social security, without which the payment of benefits to the French could be threatened, the draft organic law brings its stone to the central question of the future of social security. It removes an initial organic barrier to the inclusion of medical and social expenses in ONDAM since 2005, by reducing the number of sub-objectives that the Social Security Financing Act must present to Parliament. Potentially focused on strictly health expenditure, ONDAM would thus give way to a new expenditure target inevitably linked to a fifth branch, which the special commission approved the creation of. During the debates in the special committee, both sides were the subject of in-depth and high-quality discussions, in which disagreements emerged which should be reproduced and explained here. The differences were first related to the very concept of social debt, sometimes the existence of it, and sometimes the need to repay it. I will simply recall three essential facts. First of all, the transfer of 136 billion euros to the CADES, with a depreciation by 2033, corresponds both to the past, to the present and to the future: in the past, in respect of deficits already recorded up to the 2019 financial year and of one third of the debts accumulated by institutions providing a public hospital service; the present and the future, in the difficult period from 2020 to 2023. Second, CADES demonstrated that it was able to amortize large amounts of debt, keeping its objectives in mind. The debt transferred in 2010 – 130 billion euros, an amount comparable to the transfer we are looking at today – is thus in the process of being repaid between 2024 and 2025, exactly as expected at the time. This depreciation was not to the detriment of the social security accounts, since it was insured if need be for specific revenue. I therefore register myself falsely against the insinuity and illegitimacy of the CADES. The Fund is an effective tool – it bears witness to its existence alone that debt is not a normal means of financing social security – but also a legitimate tool, based on a very clear pact with the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Finally, the articulation of social debt and autonomy shows that we can both manage the emergency and think about the future. The 1945 ordinances establishing social security had already proved this. Managing the emergency required necessary measures to secure social debt, while thinking of the future required integrating pre-crisis assumptions into those measures for years to come. The fable has already said: when, under various pretexts, some would always want to postpone the departure, at the risk of having to rush a few weeks or months later, both in terms of debt and loss of autonomy, I hope that the organic legislator will be able to get to the point, setting out with foresight the basis of the forthcoming legislative debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u6	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur of the special committee on the ordinary bill, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u7	The current health and economic crisis obliges us to what Simone Veil called, when presenting a major text on social security in 1994 – a distant ancestor of the one we are looking at today – a duty of clarity. Today, it is even a double duty of lucidity that we must fulfil. First of all, it deals with the state of the finances of social security. I do not need to remind you that the situation is undoubtedly difficult: the collapse of revenue and the increase in expenditure linked to the health crisis have led to financing needs which have been unprecedented since the creation of social security. Created to cover the cash requirements of the branches, which may vary during the year depending on certain maturities, ACOSS may soon have to raise close to €95 billion of short-term debt to the financial markets, banks and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. To protect this debt, in the longer term, a new transfer to CADES has emerged as the most obvious solution. It is designed to take over and amortise the social security debt, a mission which it has so far successfully fulfilled. Also, it is to be transferred 136 billion euros of debt: 31 billion deficits already acquired in 2019 and previous years, 13 billion debt recovered to institutions participating in the public hospital service and 92 billion provisions to anticipate the deficits of the financial years 2020 to 2023, now inevitable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u8	This is due to the seriousness of the financing of our social protection policies; It is also in the interest of insured persons, because the contributions and contributions paid to social security must finance ambitious, protective benefits and policies, not the interest paid to lenders. The funding plan until 2033, enshrined in the ordinary bill, is based on dynamic resources, the widespread social contribution – CSG – and the contribution for the repayment of social debt – CRDS – as well as on the regular payments of an institution as strong as the Pension Reserve Fund. It is proof of the spirit of seriousness that drives the legislator. As many government works, parliamentary missions and citizen consultations have already done, this same duty of clarity obliges us to recognize that our social protection, faced with the challenges of old age and loss of autonomy, must make an unprecedented transition both by the number of insured persons to be protected and by the social engineering that must lead to inventing or consolidating transversal solutions. We will have to break down, simplify the relationship between home and institutions, between accompaniment logic and health logic, between departmental councils and social security. It was in this perspective that the original text proposed to transfer from 2024 a fraction of CSG, representing EUR 2.3 billion at that time, to the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy, CNSA. Why 2024? Because by that date the social debt, therefore the CADES, had to expire. This objective will not be achieved, but 2024 will inaugurate a new paradigm of social debt amortization, which justifies a change in the level of resources allocated for this purpose. The text submitted by the Government also provided, by the autumn, for the submission of a report on the implications of the creation of a fifth risk, i.e. a fifth branch of social security, by the Social Security Financing Act for 2021. Without abandoning ourselves from a spirit of humility in the face of the magnitude of the task, without losing consciousness of the deadlines ahead, we wanted, as soon as the text was examined in a special committee, to go beyond our responsibilities: we strongly supported this fifth branch of autonomy. The Special Commission did not question the need for consultation or for a Government report to be submitted to Parliament by 15 September. It has intended to give clear and precise direction to the work which will lead to provisions contained in the next draft law on the financing of social security. To this end, it has been able to rely on almost 25 years of debate on this issue, which has been put back on the job many times, without ever, so far, succeeding. This new branch will require technical measures to clarify its resources, its financial relations with other branches or its scope, which could very well, at first, correspond to the scope of expenditure now integrated into the five financial sections of the CNSA. The Government's future report will shed light on these aspects and initiate an in-depth debate in the context of the consideration of the next Social Security Financing Bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In our view, the creation of a fifth branch is the only choice of governance that meets the challenge of supporting autonomy; a choice that is both ambitious in terms of the organisation of social security and respectful of the needs of caring for dependent elderly people or persons with disabilities. In a special commission, some accused us of giving us films, of creating an empty shell. However, the introduction of a field of social security entirely devoted to persons with disabilities or dependents obliges us. We will therefore try to outline its architecture during the debates that await us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u9	I have received a motion from Ms. Valérie Rabault and members of the Socialists and Related Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u10	We are meeting to discuss two bills on social debt and autonomy. Their stakes are colossal; Their adoption would have serious consequences, some of which are particularly worrying. However, we are about to discuss it in extremely strict time limits, and once again in the context of the accelerated procedure, after having had an express debate in the special committee. First of all, of the 136 billion debt that you want to transfer to CADES, created in January 1996 for a period of thirteen years, 92 billion euros, the majority of which is not a social debt. Qualified personalities heard in haste – they received a summons for the next day or the next day at 18:28 – by the special commission all reported it! The projected social security deficit for 2020 was 5.4 billion; due to the epidemic of covid-19, it is now estimated at 52 billion. The 92 billion is not part of this deficit but is part of the "covid debt" of social security, i.e. the loss of revenue resulting from the measures taken by the Government to defer or exempt social contributions in response to the economic consequences of the health crisis. If we do not dispute the merits of these emergency measures, we believe, like many economists and actors in the field of social protection or in the sectors of dependency and autonomy, that the exceptional nature of this debt created by the crisis deserves special treatment. As proposed by the President of the High Council for the Financing of Social Protection, Dominique Libault, whom we have heard, the State should take it on its own account, not add to the structural imbalance in social security. This would have many advantages. On the one hand, the State borrows on slightly more favourable terms. On the other hand, CADES and the State, through Agence France Trésor, do not manage their respective debt at all in the same way: CADES amortises the social debt by repaying it in full, interest and capital; The government, on the other hand, runs its debt by borrowing the principal indefinitely, at negative rates in recent years, so that it bears only the interest. The CADES was scheduled to expire by the end of 2024. In order to amortize this new stock of debt, it would be necessary to continue to allocate to this item the contributions it collects, i.e. the CSG and the CRDS, at least until 2033. These recipes would obviously be much more useful to finance the hospital or addiction by 2025, or rather tomorrow, if other choices were made! By denying the specific nature of this debt and the benefits that I have just presented, the Government would make a mistake and we will measure the dangerous consequences. This unsubstantiated decision would result in a long-term mortgage of our social model and annihilate the room for manoeuvre for the coming years, by monopolizing €17 billion of social contributions each year to pay a non-social debt, instead of mobilizing them to respond to the current emergencies and challenges of tomorrow. I would also like to return to the announcement of the creation of a fifth branch when you do not anticipate new means; Worse, we have just seen that you plan to monopolize until 2033, in the best case, the resources that many of the players planned to allocate in part to dependency and autonomy. Is this a pass trick, or a real trick? The management of dependency requires resources, the precise assessment of which can be found in the report devoted to the subject by Dominique Libault and praised by all, but also in the report of Myriam El Khomri concerning the indispensable and urgent upgrading of the professions of old age. Hospitals and EHPADs are still under pressure; As for home helpers, their representatives regularly alert us about the lack of attractiveness of this painful and low-paid profession. No one can be opposed to the creation of this fifth branch, promised since 2007 by all successive presidents and governments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u11	Vote for its creation, then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u12	Under the previous Government, a number of members of the Government, including the current Minister of Solidarity and Health, sat on those benches; Some were even members of the Social Affairs Committee. Like me, they were informed of the initiatives taken by each other to move the subject forward. All the Assembly's political groups have mobilized themselves, each in its own way and by imagining its own solutions, so that the management of dependency will finally receive funding to match the stakes. I am sorry to have to tell you this: by creating an empty shell, without any new means, you will not fool the dependent elderly, whether they reside in EHPAD or at home, neither people with disabilities, nor their families, nor caregivers, let alone those in the home help and accompaniment sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u13	It's wind!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u14	[[Boris Vallaud applauds]] I assure you that they doubt, that they have eyes to read and ears to hear, and that they discern advertising effects and ads without effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u15	It's com', it's com' again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u16	The question is therefore not to display a new container, but to provide it with content, to identify and permanently influence important, lasting means, while at the same time amplifying the process of décompartement between the health and medico-social sectors involved in the creation of the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government. In order to create a fifth branch that meets this ambitious objective, Dominique Libault reminded us at his hearing that the law on the financing of social security cannot be used as a vehicle: an organic law must be used. Initially, the draft laws provided for the submission of a report from the Government and a consultation for the creation of a fifth risk, of a fifth branch, in the framework of the next bill on the financing of social security. However, in a special committee, the rapporteur, by way of amendment, included the creation of a fifth branch in the ordinary bill, not in the organic bill. Either you have misunderstood or you lack the ambition to take care of the risk of loss of autonomy. I come to the recovery of part of the hospital debt: 13 billion euros, including 10 billion principal and 3 billion interest. You are telling us that this is a concrete translation of the Prime Minister's commitment to this issue. Let us note that this translation is very late: the commitment in question was made six months ago, on 20 November, as part of a plan to respond to the crisis in the public hospital. It is true that this "emergency" plan came itself after more than a year of mobilization of personnel, who shouted their distress. Let us also note that the transfer of this debt to the CADES is quite far from the Prime Minister's announcement, whose speech of 20 November 2019 promised a law backed by the law of public finance programming, which implied a recovery of debt by the state. Above all, there is much uncertainty about the eligibility criteria for this debt-recovery scheme, regarding its scope, i.e. the health facilities that will be able to access it. The responses of the Government and the rapporteur to the special commission have only added to deep concerns. The Prime Minister's initial commitment was to restore investment capacity to public hospitals: "It's a strong gesture for the public hospital," he said, "in the service of a simple idea: that hospital communities can concentrate on their profession, care, instead of exhausting themselves to repay loans," which I fully subscribe to. However, the beneficiaries of the measure are now all health facilities under the public hospital service. The Secretary of State explained to us in the special committee that this meant the extension of the scheme to private health institutions of collective interest, the ESPICs, whose purpose is not lucrative. I can hear it and understand it. For his part, the rapporteur for the ordinary bill has told us in text that private for-profit institutions are not excluded from the scheme, but would represent only an infinitesimal part of it, since they are by definition not intended to produce debt. The taxpayer's money will therefore be used to repay the debts of private institutions, which have also been able to pay dividends to their shareholders! The rapporteur's intention was probably to reassure us; As far as I am concerned, I must admit that his remarks have had the opposite effect. Mr. Secretary of State, we must remove this blurry about private for-profit institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u18	It should be noted that, as the CNSA stated in its opinion, public medical and social institutions, despite their acute investment needs, are once again the most forgotten of this debt-recovery scheme. It is no longer permissible for medico-social to be the fifth wheel of the carriage. With regard to CNSA, the Government proposes to transfer a small fraction of CSG, withdrawn from CADES, from 2024 onwards. You'll tell us it's always better than nothing. That is true, but 2024 is far away from the urgency of the situation, in particular in order to improve the skills of home help and accompaniment, which require resources now. There is also an urgent need to deal with the situation of the EHPADs, about which parliamentarians on all sides have been alerting for years, and which the crisis has worsened further. Here too, precise figures of needs exist, in particular to reach the minimum ratio between caregivers and residents: 8 to 10 billion euros according to the conclusions of the information mission led by our colleagues Caroline Fiat and Monique Iborra. This fraction of 0.15 points of CSG, i.e. EUR 2.3 billion, must be compared with the needs quantified in Dominique Libault's report and estimated, from 2024 onwards, to 10 billion. We are far from the point, while the major issue of the reduction of the remainder for families is not dealt with and no less than 7 billion today weigh on them. So yes, you're right, 2.3 billion euros in 2024, it's better than nothing, but it's mostly far too late and far too little! You can see here an illustration of the concrete consequences of the decision to assign the "covid debt" to CADES. To sum up, with these two bills and your rough tricks, you propose to create a fifth branch while making bad blows to the tree that is dear to us. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and FI benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, in view of all the arguments I have just listed, I invite you to vote on the motion to reject in advance tabled by our group and to call on the Government to table a bill on dependency, promised by the President of the Republic in 2018, postponed in 2019. We are already in June 2020, and still no text submitted! This law has been expected for more than ten years, we could finally succeed together by creating the fifth branch and providing the necessary funding for an effective implementation by 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u19	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u20	The Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of the motion tabled on this two-pronged organic bill. The first relates to the extension from 2024 to 2033 of the date of amortization of the debt extended by CADES, i.e. nine more years. Our position, which we will explain in more detail when we consider the ordinary bill, is simple. The deficits on the horizon are not linked to the actual management of the social security system, but to a crisis that we all hope will be temporary. We therefore support the argument that the deficit of 52 billion, which can be deducted from the initial 5 billion of the Old Age Solidarity Fund, or about 47 billion, should be integrated into the debt of the French State, even if it is intended to transfer revenue. This is another debate but, in the meantime, let the CADES not bear this burden. The second part of this text concerns the creation of a fifth branch of social security. We are in favour of this, but there is a legal problem because, in the opinion of the Council of State, it is not necessary to amend the organic law. As the text stands, two sub-objectives of ONDAM will be brought together into a new branch devoted to dependency. Since the draft organic law would be submitted to the Constitutional Council, its second article might pose a problem, not on the substance but on the legal level, because its content did not call for an organic law. In its opinion, the Conseil d'État considered that "in view of the amendments to Articles LO 111-3 and LO 111-4 of the Social Security Code [...], this new branch could be established under an LFSS". An organic bill was therefore not necessary. [[Christine Pires Beaune applauds]] For these two reasons, we will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u21	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u22	Pires-Beaune is right: you want to continue to allocate the CRDS and CGS contributions to CADES until at least 2033, when the crisis has revealed that it is urgent to take care of our health facilities. Everyone applauded the caregivers at 20 o'clock, both in the Chamber and in committee, but today, nothing. On the other hand, we don't miss out on ads! Again last night, the President of the Republic announced that he was proud. What should we not hear? Thus, he was proud to send first-line soldiers, without masks, without gloves, but with garbage bags, to the war.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u23	And no blouse!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u24	It may be a great pride for you and for him, but for me it is a shame that we have come to this in our country. For these reasons, I will vote in favour of this motion of rejection because there is no question that we are going through the same drama in the event of a second wave. Indeed, no one could imagine that we would suffer such a health crisis. Today, the probability that a second wave will occur exists, even if no one can guess the extent of it. That is why it is essential to find the necessary funding today, not in three months or two years. It is today that we need to open up new nursing positions, raise salaries, increase the number of staff in EHPADs and institutions for children and adults with disabilities. It is now that we must act because if, tomorrow, a second wave causes a disaster in the EHPADs, you will no longer be able to act astonishment by stating that no one could guess. The La France insoumée group will therefore vote in favour of this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u25	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u26	The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this motion for a preliminary rejection for the reasons mentioned above, which have prompted us, in particular, to table amendments to delete Article 1. We do not want to prevent the democratic debate, but this text would have deserved much more upstream consultation before considering a postponement of the CADES debt amortization date.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u27	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u28	The Group of the European People's Party will vote against this motion to reject it beforehand, because we must not be mistaken. The draft organic law does not provide for the creation of a fifth branch, but for the opening of the work with a view to its creation, as part of an ordinary bill. One of our colleagues acknowledged the urgency of securing funding. It is precisely for this reason that it is urgent to foresee the transfer of the debt from ACOSS to CADES. For all these reasons, and as a matter of principle – because it is important to debate: we are here for this – we will vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u29	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u30	That is true, we need a real debate to understand how the measures taken to deal with the crisis of the covid epidemic -19 will be financed, but provided that this debate is wide-ranging. This is far from the case today, since the Government is simply proposing to postpone its debts on the back of social security, at the risk of recreating the so-called "security hole". We know very well what role these transfers have played in the past. Your proposals do not meet the needs and we share Mrs Pires Beaune's criticism of this text. In addition, you plan to remove the medical-social sub-objectives of ONDAM but you do not tackle the very logic of the functioning of ONDAM, which poses a problem in that it leads to a reduction in expenditure: it is even at the root of the deep crisis that has struck the EHPADs and the public hospital. Instead, you should have presented us with a great plan to recognize professions such as home helpers, EHPADs or public hospitals. That is what we were waiting for. These issues could have found their place in a much broader debate. Since you are content with dispatches, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u31	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u32	Mrs Pires Beaune, I have listened carefully to you and I hear your arguments against this organic bill which, with the ordinary bill, aims to give social security the means to ensure its mission of national solidarity, by disbursing it from part of its debt. Social security has been and continues to be the front line of the state during this health crisis. The transfer of debt will enable him to identify the means necessary to finance his benefits in a context where the French need them more than ever. You have mentioned the debt, which you call non-social, when it makes it possible to finance benefits related to sickness, old age, family, occupational diseases, accidents at work. These are social expenses, even if they are born, we all agree, in exceptional circumstances. That is what led us, in fact, to opt for a debt transfer, a choice that you do not share. With regard to borrowing conditions, Laurent Saint-Martin will return, they will be comparable tomorrow. As far as the recovery of the public hospital's debt is concerned, we will discuss it again because the subject is essential. In addition, the creation of a fifth branch of social security in 2021, devoted to the management of autonomy, is a necessary and urgent task which no government or majority has provided a satisfactory and comprehensive response. We will return with Audrey Dufeu Schubert and Annie Vidal. The inclusion of this fifth branch in an ordinary bill, as recommended by the Council of State, will ensure a clear and legible framework for the financing of this risk. This registration is indispensable. That's right, it's not all finalized. The construction of this branch will therefore continue in the coming months, and we will rely on partnership work to do this: we will return to this with Olga Givernet's proposal. I have so much to say, but time is running out. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] We are not trying to fool anyone but, on the contrary, to move forward with pragmatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u33	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u34	The Group of Republicans sees no objection to postponing the debt of the CADES to bear the debt generated by the health crisis. We did so in 2010 by means of an organic law to deal with the economic crisis of the time, despite the oppositions of the socialist left and, rapporteur, centrists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u35	I wasn't there...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u36	We will not therefore vote on this motion of rejection because we want to debate this text and make our many criticisms. They focus on the unacceptable confusion, and contrary to the Veil law, between social finances and state finances. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] We have the ambition to debate this issue and, for that reason, we will abstain on this motion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u37	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u38	I note that the interesting debates that we have had in the special committee are beginning to be taken up in the Chamber, and that is so much better. I say "interesting" for two reasons. First, the Socialist and related group wanted the social debt to be taken up by the State in a special committee, and still wishes, through this motion of rejection, that the social debt be taken over by the State. We believe that a resumption by CADES is a better solution. Why? On the one hand, because the purpose of CADES is to manage social debt; on the other hand, because, in order to do so, CADES has identified resources, including the CRDS; Finally, because CADES is a good student and pays off the debt. Without the crisis, repayment would have been made in full in 2024. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Secondly, the debates are lively, and that is so much better, around the fifth branch of social security. This weekend, I inquired about what had happened in 1945. In the spring of 1945, not everyone agreed to create social security and, in 1946, the generalization of social security was still not achieved. It took twenty-two years, 1967, for the Jeanneney Orders to create three caisses within the general scheme. Of course, the fifth branch will not be created in one night, nor in one year; What we do is lay the first stone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u39	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u40	I have no doubt that, in the course of the next debate, we will come back to the comments of successive speakers, so I would only like to respond to the argument that you have put forward, Mrs Pires Beaune, concerning the central element of the bill. Since 1996, the social debt has been separate from the rest of the public debt, and every effort is made to ensure its repayment in a limited time, through the allocation of specific revenues. This choice is a fundamental pillar of our social security system, as it ensures the sustainability of its funding. It is also the logical counterpart to the autonomous financial control of social security: social debt must be managed by social security, and not transferred to the State. As MP Door rightly pointed out at the moment, it is in the same way that it was decided in 2011 to transfer €130 billion of social debt to CADES – not to the state – following the financial crisis of 2008-2009. While the current situation is exceptional because of the suddenness and magnitude of the crisis, there is no justification for adopting a solution different from that adopted at the time. Indeed, the unprecedented social security deficit projected for 2020 will mainly result from the contraction of the revenue base and the increase in health spending. The possibility of a specific treatment of the debt related to covid-19, which you mentioned, is a real question. Economists are still discussing this, rightly, and the appropriate level of response would probably be the European level. But we must act quickly and, at this stage, the solution advocated in this text seems to us to be the best. Changing the rules in an emergency when the crisis is not over, and in an international economic situation we can no longer be unstable, would not be reasonable. [[Exclaims on the LT and IUD-I benches]] The second point of your argument concerns the creation of the fifth branch. However, it has been 15 years since everyone agreed on the substance and nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u41	Nothing's still going on!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u42	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Today, several groups even propose motions for prior rejection. In 2007, to the right of the Chamber, you dreamed of it; in 2012, to the left of the Chamber, you dreamed of it again; history will remember that in 2020 we did it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u43	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u44	There's nothing like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u45	I have received from Mr André Chassaigne and members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure on the draft law on social debt and autonomy. Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u46	Not all subjects, for the Government, call for the same haste. However, in order to charge the "covid debt" on the back of social security, the Government hastened and, according to an unfortunate habit, has resorted to the accelerated procedure. It thus obliges Parliament, which is already sitting under the conditions imposed by the state of health emergency. The debate could have taken place within the framework of the Social Security Financing Bill, which would have allowed for a comprehensive vision. But the virus is not entirely part of it and the debt is not yet aggregated that it is already on the baudet. Back to the future: here we are re-creating the social security hole, this trompe-l'oeil construction that has justified a discourse of compression of rights for years. Thus, for the balance of any account, 136 billion euros will be transferred to CADES, which had almost completed its clearance work. This decision concludes the debate on the financing of the crisis. What does this debt cover? How can I pay her? Who has to pay for it? For how long? The exceptional aid to part of the youth had not yet been paid that we were already examining a text that had been drawn up in committee. There is a need for discussion. The new situation calls into question certain tax and social contributions choices you have made in the recent period. The contribution of the most wealthy and large companies, particularly financial ones – for example insurance – should be studied. You'd rather run under the porch of the CADES. In addition, under the state of emergency and without any other form of discussion, the Government has taken decisions which it has now put to bear the consequences on others. The State must take responsibility for managing the crisis. He owes it all the more because he is not free of choices that have led to the deprivation of the public hospital, thus to the widespread confinement. After ONDAM, the Government has drained the resources of social security from each budget; He's now transferring his debt to him. The scissors effect is already well underway. Moreover, such a method of financing reveals some confusion, which remains the strength of the macronian philosophy of public action. This great mix of budgets and debts does not serve the clarity of our social organization. So, after giving in the non-compensation, you don't see why we separate the two budgets, which allows you to load the social accounts without showing the intention to increase their revenues. Finally, from the point of view of pure financial management, the choice of CADES is a miscalculation, as CADES repays capital and interest while the public debt rolls. Instead of long-term management, it is therefore a matter of imposing a medium-term management which will affect the citizens of this country, for the greatest benefit of finance. The recent period has again shown the need for high-level social protection. Its financing will depend on the robustness of the economy, i.e. the preservation of employment and wages; the real economy, focused on meeting needs and being sustainable, and respecting well-being at work and throughout life, as this is the best way not to make future debt. The signal, however, is clear: with these 136 billion, you say, "belt". But, as you know, you will not escape the debate on the right to autonomy, especially since the situation of EHPADs became more visible during the crisis. Then the bill also includes a "stretch" part. You had to reassure those who had imagined financing a plan for autonomy through the lines of credit that CADES would no longer need to repay the debt, and you decided to do so in the inimitable style of the false-semblance, which you love so much. You will create a new branch of social security; a decision, you say, comparable to that made in 1945. That's all! Modesty doesn't choke you. For this, you ask for our anointing and you need our seal, for everyone knows that, when the communists commit themselves, and although they are not the only guarantors of it, there is no doubt: it is a social advance. In this case, the certainty is that the great chamboule - all of social protection continues, and that the taunting advertising slogans accompanying it are not enough to mask a deleterious policy. We've been deceived so often, we've heard so many contrary words, you've used so much of your magic and illusion box! So, what's this all about? Social security is based on the principle: "From everyone according to their means, to everyone according to their needs. This mutualization allows to assure each and every one against the hazards of existence. Social security is based on work and is managed by the insured themselves. It evolved, first with paritarianism, then with forms of stateization. Social security is based on four branches: health insurance, which guarantees the right to health; Old age insurance, which guarantees the right to retirement; Occupational health insurance and accidents at work, which guarantees the right not to lose health at work; and the family branch, which guarantees rights to children, parents and families. This scheme is complemented by unemployment insurance, which is a separate institution. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Some believe that a new risk, that of dependency, must now be covered. What are we talking about? We can all, at some point in our lives, temporarily or permanently, see our autonomy reduced. I say "autonomy" and not "independence": independence would mean that we do not need others. But we are beings of interaction, of relationship, of solidarity, we all need others to live on a daily basis. When you're alone, so many things are impossible. The word "dependence" also indicates a state of passivity. It is therefore a matter of autonomy, of this ability to be the captain of his life. This ability may be diminished or hindered by the hazards of existence, and may not occur only as a result of the advance in age. However, the Republic must be there to guarantee equal rights throughout life. It is therefore necessary to defend the right to autonomy and to maintain everyone, throughout their existence, at the best possible level of autonomy. "Throughout life": this is also where universality is nested. It's not something that can be distributed to the cut. Once again, this is the philosophy of social security, which establishes rights. What can be said? That the reality of the loss of autonomy is not new; that it already knows forms of care; and that these forms are very insufficient. This has the effect of placing an untenable burden on families, as many caregivers – who are mostly women – show, or of leaving men and women in difficulty, when it is not desolation. It's unworthy of the Republic. It is therefore necessary to act in order to maintain autonomy, that is not to say to resolve to cast off from it, but always to accompany each human person towards the best of himself, and never to renounce the movement of human emancipation. One cannot, however, be content with a flat statement. Why are we immersed in such a dramatic social state? Because, for decades, as the world changed and the family changed – and we know that the family structure plays a decisive role in the organization of social relations – the choice has been made to step deeper into the paths of neoliberalism. The structures of the popular movement that had emerged to meet these needs in the second part of the twentieth century were then at a loss. What do we need? To reinvest two essential dimensions: solidarity support and the public service of autonomy, which remains to be invented. It is an immense and urgent project that calls for a real plan. Maintaining self-reliance entails expenses for care, support and accommodation. Health care is covered by health insurance under the right to health and accounts for a significant proportion of the costs of autonomy, according to the Libault report. But they refer to a reduced conception of care and health. In fact, neither the reduction of health spending through the debursements and the narrowing of the scope of care, nor the lengthening of working hours correspond to the promotion of "a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being", which is nevertheless the definition of health according to the WHO – World Health Organization. Social and public policies focus far too much on the curative dimension of health policy, which undermines the ambition of social security. All care should be taken care of at 100%, in a non-restrictive sense. Today, the rest of the insured are very much dependent on them. Human accompaniment is part of the care and is an essential dimension of maintaining autonomy. It also responds to the longing for home care during the crisis. As for accommodation, when it happens, it is not a luxury: it meets the need for a more secure environment. Of course, the introduction of the individual autonomy allowance was a real step forward in 2002, but what has happened since then? The PCH – disability compensation benefit – must also be improved. In fact, human assistance is provided to the dropper and, in many cases, does not guarantee a full right to autonomy and the deployment of an offensive approach of care and prevention. As for collective accommodation, it has a high cost with an average remaining charge of 1,800 euros per month for families. Already, a market has begun to open up, encouraging people to make sure themselves individually in a logic of living against what it is agreed to call the risk of "dependence": it is a path without outcome, unequal and wasteful. This need for care is indeed within the scope of social security and the right to health. It is therefore essential to make progress in care, by not cracking down on the ambition of social security, which – I repeat – must apply throughout life. However, to meet this challenge, there is a need for tools to provide the right answers, home support services and accommodation facilities with fully recognized staff. Mutations are needed to get out of the logics of partitioning and excluding. Investments are essential to guarantee dignified living and working conditions, financing is essential to ensure a qualified human presence, able to perform these noble tasks that revolve around care. Here again, private interests are on the spot, in order to capture profitable cases: the "silver economy", as it is called, consists – let's say as they are – in making money on the backs of the elders. This money, which is captured to feed shareholders, is lacking to a whole part of the population. In order to clear its responsibilities, the public authority accepts that the service of the right to autonomy should be reduced to a large market, and some public establishments are even offered for sale. The construction site is such that, in order to meet the needs, there must be a large public centre of autonomy guaranteeing equal rights for all. It's still to be built. Far from considering this option, the Government has decided to create a surprise kit. There is nothing to fear from removing the right to autonomy, a component of the right to health, from health insurance, to create a new branch. Such a creation, beyond the fact that it must be based on a philosophy of social protection, which no one has so far stated, involves three elements: a particular level of rights, a different method of financing and a separate mode of governance. But you don't say anything about these three elements. Initially, it was planned to request the Government to submit, in a few weeks' time, a report on the desirability of such a decision: it was already sewn with white thread. You have decided to take the step with the little child's greed in front of the window of the glacier, choosing the cornet, because you are fond of slogans and you need to redo the cherry, so much the social break has marked this quinquennium. But how do you want us to trust a majority who has such a trademark, who has paid so much for words that there is enough to write a dictionary? Thus, attracted by what shines, you engrave this choice into the law without even waiting for this report, without having studied its ins and outs, without having really educated the subject, checked the structure and the foundations, pretending, once again – I have heard it again at the moment – to accomplish the Scriptures, without asking you if any valid reason had not led to not implementing this idea, which was in the landscape. Isn't that, at the end of the day, a false good idea? Is additional partitioning, which will result from this decision, necessary? Is it necessary to plan for a break-up of the health insurance branch to make these issues visible, especially since they are already visible? More than visible measures, they are sensitive and tangible measures that can and must be taken. There is a need to create a right to care and to provide for a decentralized public centre. For what common benefit confine these stakes in a separate branch and thus render the social protection architecture bogged down? Why and how do we divide care between autonomy and the rest, since, in the end, the right to health is the right to autonomy? Why and how do we combine investment, operation and support? In a context where, as evidenced by the transfer of debt to the CADES, social security is used as a variable for adjusting public policies, there is everything to be feared. You do not say so, but you are already inventing complementary health care, particular to this branch, the fact of entering into an approach of national solidarity rather than of social protection which can be conceived as a new way of statising social security. Once again, there is concern that you may be putting an ecosystem in place to serve human services and social protection. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] We are not determined, in this matter, to buy on a plan, especially since there is no plan, but just a domain name. So you're not ripe for the time of the cherries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u47	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion. Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u48	We will, of course, vote on this motion for a preliminary rejection, simply because the fifth branch is still an empty shell, as Mr Dharréville quite rightly explained. I do not think anyone here is against the fifth branch: we are against the communication operation that it gives rise to. We want to know, in concrete terms, who will finance it, how, for whom, for what. We cannot vote for an empty text, or even vote on a branch... maybe dead. In the current situation, it would be unhealthy to vote on the wind. That is why, I repeat, the group of La France insoumée will vote on the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u49	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u50	The Group of the European People's Party will vote against this motion of rejection. We are starting a three-step waltz here: the first is the construction of the fifth branch, the second will come with the draft law on the financing of social security and the third with the law on age and autonomy. Let's do the first time of the waltz!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u51	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u52	I do not put an end to any suspense by saying at the outset that the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on the motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by Mr Dharréville. There is an urgent need, yes, but it is not what is urgent that we are being asked to debate here. I listened to the President of the Republic yesterday, like a large number of French: he said he had injected 500 billion euros into the economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u53	For companies and employees.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u54	For my part, I do not question the presidential speech. And here we are talking about 136 billion social debt recovery. Health is always the fifth wheel of the coach: it is never privileged! Moreover, the President of the Republic last night mentioned only the Ségur de la santé, while we were waiting for very strong announcements on this subject: nothing at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u55	That's included, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u56	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups]] And today, what are we debating? Of the social debt due to the covid-19, of the 136 billion added to the social security hole: 31 billion past deficits, 92 billion for the current year's deficits and the following three and 13 billion for the hospital debt, which the State has pledged to recover a third. But it's not the state that pays! Who pays? That's the big problem. Even for a three-stroke waltz, you have to allow a thousand-time discussion! However, we do not have time to debate. What else are we debating today? The majority already has its opinion on these two bills. We are out of the question, since today's subject is to respond to the urgency of committing the state to putting the economy at the service of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u57	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u58	The question is not to buy on a plan, but to build on a solid foundation: this is our commitment. Our dyptics, from the beginning, is to free and protect: to free, first of all, the French from additional taxes, contrary to your proposals which would lead us to lift them; also release ACOSS from exceptional debts, in an exceptional situation, from the medical-social perimeter, entrusting them to a known and recognized organization, CADES, which manages capital and interests very well; then protect our social system, whose financial autonomy guarantees independence; also protect health care providers, health facilities, both through debt recovery and health care. These are our foundations. The cherry on the cake is the creation of the fifth branch, in order to protect the autonomy of the French, a fifth branch so often announced and proposed without ever being realized. In order to put it in place, we announce the first lines of its funding. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Rather than developing state debt over a long period of time, we are committed to a responsible and supportive approach, because we prefer the intergenerational bond to intergenerational debt. The group of La République en marche will therefore vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u59	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u60	If I understand correctly, it's all about time. There is an urgent need to manage the social debt well: 136 billion euros of additional debt transferred to CADES is not nothing. I do not know whether our fellow citizens are aware of the situation in France today. Secretary of State, however, we must not confuse speed with haste, even when there is an emergency. We would have liked to have opened a real debate with you on the responsibilities that the state does not assume in the matter of compensation, by transferring the debt to the taxpayers. We would also like to open a real debate on autonomy and dependence, in order to find ways of doing so. But I repeat, if you confuse speed with haste, you don't give them to yourself. In the absence of funding, will it be necessary to wait until 2024 to obtain a few euros? We could have made a real reflection on funding, rather than embarking on an approach that we don't see as the objective, so we don't know how you're going to get through it. That is why we are concerned and wish to receive further information from you during the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] It is precisely because they want to debate that the members of the Republican Group will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand. We are not opposed to the creation of a fifth branch: on the contrary, we want you to give the French the means to combat dependency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u61	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u62	The various measures contained in this bill are too important not to be discussed, confronted, debated. If our colleagues are opposed to it, it is desirable that they express it in a built-up and reasoned debate. The Group of the Democratic and Related Movement will oppose this motion to reject it beforehand simply because it supports the bill in its entirety. In addition to the financial transfers which seem necessary, as has already been pointed out, the work carried out in a special committee has led to the approval of the creation of a fifth branch of social security. This very important step will need to be consolidated by an ad hoc law. It seems, therefore, that our colleagues who have tabled this motion of rejection are opposed to this advance, which our fellow citizens have been waiting for so long. What do you mean? Let them assume their opposition during the debates that open and then in front of their voters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u63	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u64	[[Rires on the SOC benches]] All the reforms of this majority have been the greatest since René Coty.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u65	And that's not to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u66	Yes, it's the new world!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u67	Jealous?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u68	From Holland, that would have been enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u69	We know this: that is what each and every member of the Government and the majority is saying without browing. The reality, of course, is quite different. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] To the phrase "release, protect", one could add: "smoker". How can we claim that there will be no additional taxes when we extend the abundances of CRDS and CSG that feed the CADES until 2033? Doesn't that mean increasing the taxes of the French until 2033? You won't be able to demonstrate the opposite. You also make the choice of using proportional taxes rather than progressive taxes, which would take into account the contribution of the French, especially that of the richest to participate in the national effort in the crisis – for example, those who went away from Paris because they had the means to do so: from this point of view, everyone has probably experienced the crisis differently.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u70	Who created the CSG?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u71	[[Smile]] The Socialist and related group will therefore support the motion defended by Pierre Dharréville. In general, everything is said and it is too late once Peter has spoken. As he said very well, we are finally looking at this transfer very quickly, without much debate. This one is only formal, because we know the result of the races. Assimilate the fifth risk to a shoe box: we are presented with the box, but we do not know very well what is in it. Are there any shoes? If so, what is the brand, color, model? That is all that should be debated! In fact, we could have done so for a long time, since the great law on autonomy was promised for December 2018: proof that the majority, whatever they say, is not always at the appointments they set for the French and French.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u72	He's an expert talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u73	We believe that there is still considerable work to be done, and will therefore support the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u74	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u75	From the arguments of our colleague Pierre Dharréville to justify his motion of rejection, there is a part with which we do not agree: the transfer of the weight of the "covid debt" and "post-covid" to the CADES. That is why the independent IDU group will not vote on the motion. Indeed, although debt is always a bad thing, the CADES and the debt sustainability and repayment mechanism at a known date seem to us to be good policy and good management. Of course, debt weighs on work and solidarity, and tends to transfer to future generations expenses that are not honoured at the moment, but it is limited while the debts of the State, as a matter of principle, are not. On the other hand, we agree with the argument relating to the fifth branch of social security. According to the Secretary of State, before the current government and the current majority, much had been said but nothing had been done. "We do it," he told us. But, Mr. Secretary of State, you do not do so more than your predecessors until you have solved a very small problem: the viability and financial sustainability of the scheme. Who would be against this beautiful idea of national solidarity, the management of dependency and, somewhere, the dignity of our elders? No one! It is therefore not enough to include the principle of the fifth branch in an amendment or in a government report submitted to Parliament: what is the basis for its funding? Tax? In that case, what tax, and paid by whom? In fact, what is included in the text is only the beginning of a start on funding, which does not address the situation of future departments and taxation. This is a debate that we will have throughout the discussion of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u76	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u77	The Liberties and Territories Group will abstain on the motion for rejection, simply because it wants the debate to allow the Government to answer three main questions. First of all, why don't you want to transfer the debts of the past years, or even that of 2020, directly to the French state? Then, for the first time since the creation of the law on the financing of social security and the CADES, a kind of deficit is transferred, not forecast – since, not covering the coming year, it does not include any forecast of revenue and expenditure – but future, that of the years 2021, 2022 and 2023, within the limit of 40 billion euros. The thing, let's say, doesn't leave questions to be asked. Finally, why is it planned that social security will take over one third of hospital debt, EUR 13 billion, i.e. about 10 billion, plus interest? The question is all the more so since it is not a debt recovery, but rather a management of the annuities. Another question arises, monumental. We support the creation of a fifth branch of social security devoted to autonomy. But you do not create it: you are content with an empty legal framework. Indeed, we do not know at all what the new expenses will be. I would point out that, according to the Libault report, funding needs amount to about EUR 1 billion a year, for four to five years. But in fact, we don't know! The Libault report contained only proposals. The same applies to revenue: you simply say that from 2024 onwards, you will recover part of the revenue from the contribution fixed at 0.5%, or just over 2 billion euros. But it's not serious! Elections are planned in 2022: smart that could tell where you will be then!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u78	Thank you, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u79	We would therefore like answers to all these questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u81	In the general debate, Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u82	Should the considerable costs of the covid epidemic -19 be borne on social security? In any case, that was the Government's choice. However, he could have chosen, as he had originally done, to have the social debt linked to the health crisis recovered by the State. This option was justified by the exogenous nature of the crisis and the nature of the deficit, which is not only the result of an increase in health insurance expenditure: it is also and above all due to the sudden halt in our economy imposed by the confinement and subsequent government measures. Deferrals and cancellations of contributions, in particular, if they were undoubtedly necessary, will have a lasting impact on our social accounts. With a historical social security deficit estimated at €52 billion in 2020, a recovery in government debt seemed more appropriate than an extension of the CADES' lifespan beyond 2024, in order to face the challenges facing our social protection system. Indeed, by extending the CRDS until 2033, we are depriving ourselves of additional leverage to invest in our health care system...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u84	... and to finance a field too forgotten: that of dependence, aid and support for autonomy. We also regret that the recovery of one third of hospital debt is not borne by the state budget, as originally announced. The idea of a fifth risk, that of dependence, and the creation of a fifth branch to finance it, has been fuelling our debates for many years. Since 1988, when Michel Rocard created the CSG, the creation of a fifth risk was already mentioned, so that the financing of dependency was ensured by national solidarity. Since then, the subject has often been addressed, but never dealt with in its completeness because, each time, its cost was considered too important for public finances. Dominique Libault's report has made it possible to quantify the needs ahead: the number of elderly people living in dependency will rise by 20,000 per year, with an acceleration from 2030. It is therefore imperative to revisit our social protection system, built in 1945, in the wake of dependency, this new social risk, as is illness or old age. Unfortunately, the old age and autonomy bill, presented as one of the quinquennium's priorities, has been continually pushed back, so much so that we are now reduced to addressing this major issue on the margins of a text on social debt. It is obvious that the lack of resources allocated to the medical and social sector has had an impact on the tragedy that took place in our EHPADs. Therefore, if the current context requires us to legislate, we must do so by addressing the issue in a comprehensive manner, both in terms of funding and in terms of organisation and governance. It is from this debate that we are deprived of the text we are considering, which is reduced to a new presentation of the PLFSS and to a start of funding in 2024. The Libertés et Territoires Group has repeatedly called for the creation of a fifth branch dedicated to aid and support for autonomy. So let us be precise: dependency and loss of autonomy are not synonymous. Dependence is the impossibility, partial or total, of carrying out without help the acts of daily life, while autonomy refers to the right and ability of each individual to determine and act freely. Thus, the challenge is to accompany a person in a situation of dependency to enable him or her to maintain his or her autonomy for as long as possible. For this to happen, we need to see dependency as a real social risk, which affects both people with disabilities and the elderly. The dichotomy which has prevailed since the 1990s and which has resulted in two types of allowances: the PCH and the APA – personalized autonomy allowance. Unfortunately, the ordinary bill and the organic bill only partially address the issue of these benefits – the only ones, however, that are aimed at supporting autonomy. Of course, the texts prefigure the creation of a fifth branch. But mere inclusion in the social security code will not be enough if we do not determine the scope or the method of financing this new branch. Moreover, the concept of "responsibility for loss of autonomy" contained in Article 4 has no meaning. Therefore, our group has tabled amendments to improve the drafting of these amendments, but also to clarify the scope of the autonomy branch. We will also propose to speed up the implementation of this measure and to advance its funding by 2021. Finally, while some of you have spoken of a historic advance in our debates in the special committee, this enthusiasm must be put into perspective: without additional funding and without a comprehensive policy of support for autonomy, which concerns both the elderly and people with disabilities, the fifth branch remains an empty shell. [[Christine Pires Beaune applauds]] The reflection on dependency and autonomy is obviously not limited to funding: it is above all ethical, because it must strive to preserve the dignity of everyone, regardless of age, physical state and mental state; It is also political, because it refers to the place our society places for the elderly and persons with disabilities, as well as to the collective obligations of the public authorities to be an integral part of our republican pact.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u85	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u86	Mr Secretary of State, Mr Chairman of the Special Committee, Mr Rapporteur of the Organic Bill, Mr Rapporteur of the Ordinary Bill, decidedly, in the following world, parity is still lacking! However, it is not because of the fact that in the election of the bureau of the special commission, you have a little femininity: ladies, even in the next world, you still have no right to have your own vote! Too bad. In a special committee, the minister did not answer me – but he did not answer me when he was rapporteur general: what, even in the next world and once I became minister, I still do not have an answer. Since it is Mr. Secretary of State who is present today, perhaps I will have more chance of getting an answer! Secretary of State, I kept the same speech: you see, I make things easier. In the context of the crisis of the covid-19, many social security receipts were reduced as a result of the decline in activity and the carry-over of contributions. At the same time, social spending has increased. Our social security is febrile and requires strong measures, because the stakes are enormous: it is the very object of our exchange today. To pay off the social debt, you could immediately end the contribution exemptions you voted in the last PLFSS, which are not compensated by the state. You could also re-establish a solidarity tax on wealth – ISF – or cancel a portion of the social debt that, as I will demonstrate below, is totally illegitimate. You could pursue an employment policy, for example by reducing working time. But by promoting overtime, desocialized by your majority, carefully avoiding the issue of the ISF and submitting this bill to us, you are doing the opposite. So what do you propose? Who's gonna pay? Who will take advantage of the accumulated debt? First of all, you choose to continue head down in the absurd: debt to social security to the tune of 136 billion euros, through the CADES. Something new: you're in debt for future debts! You thus endorse your renunciation of re-establishing our social protection. Historically, this debt policy has always justified drastic cuts even though our social protection, including our unemployment insurance and health insurance, has demonstrated its crucial importance for society during the covid crisis. With your bills, who's gonna pay? Once again, they'll be the least affluent. Indeed, the repayment of the social debt will not be financed by social contributions but by two very little progressive taxes, the CRDS and the CSG. So you put the crisis of the covid on the whole of the social body instead of pursuing a policy of redistribution of wealth, as our grandparents did after the war. With your bills, who will take advantage of the accumulated debt? As always in the startup nation, it will be speculators, since you make the choice to finance the debt on the financial markets. In an Attac report dated 16 September 2017, we learned that CADES "issues commercial papers without any control, notably in the City of London and Luxembourg". As of that date, CADES had repaid €140 billion of social debt since its inception, mainly through taxes; At the same time, it had paid EUR 52 billion of interest to creditors. A large part of the tax revenue for social debt is thus used to pay interest and commissions to private banks, which speculate on it. Much of this social debt appears illegitimate, and a citizen audit to shed light on the speculation against it is an imperative of social justice. Again, this antisocial policy is unjustifiable after the movement of yellow vests and the crisis of the covid. Our public services and social security must be strengthened and must not suffer any additional budget cuts. Absurdness: In order to pass the pill of these bills, you communicate on the creation of a fifth branch dedicated to the loss of autonomy. While it is urgent to finance a public service for the loss of autonomy, if a fifth branch is created, it must be financed by social contributions and not by the CSG. If a fifth branch is created, it must receive funds commensurate with the stakes. In our report on EHPAD, we estimated the financing requirements of a fifth branch at a minimum of 20 billion euros, i.e. 1 point of GDP now. By refusing to fund this old-age policy, you acknowledge the fact that families will have to be in debt to take care of their elders; We don't accept it. Mr. Secretary of State, what are you about to do with these bills? Not only are you continuing to break the social security system, but you are also putting in place new mechanisms that will increase its indebtedness and justify future austerity measures – all under the guise of creating a fifth branch, a pure element of communication at the moment. What do you think of the proposals made at the beginning of my speech?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u87	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u88	The National Assembly is therefore preparing to legislate urgently and hastyly on two subjects that will have a major impact on the French. First, debt. It is not a structural debt caused by the health crisis, which would have been the result of an imbalance in social accounts. It is an exceptional debt, which must be managed exceptionally by the State, which benefits from much more advantageous refinancing conditions than social organizations. To this "covid debt" transformed into a social debt, you add the debt of hospitals. The economist Brigitte Dormont reminded us: if hospitals had to contract toxic loans, it was because they continued to operate despite budgetary austerity. Why does the state not resume this debt, as the Prime Minister had committed himself to it in November? Why increase the amount of social debt by 13 billion euros? And finally, if we want to help hospitals to the end, why transfer only a third of their debt while the state and CADES have much better borrowing conditions than hospitals? Will this recovery be conditioned or not, at a time when we are waiting for strong responses for caregivers and for this public service that has proven its effectiveness? The choices made by the Government can only give rise to questions within an ecological, democratic and solidarity group. First of all, you extend the compulsory levies on business income by 15.5 billion euros a year until 2033, without any real democratic debate. In addition, you plan to repay the debt by two contributions of a non-contributory nature. Such an effort would undoubtedly deserve greater solidarity – we could, for example, look at the social capital levy. Finally, for lack of time and despite the request for a report made by our colleague Bénédicte Peyrol, these texts do not provide for borrowings contracted by CADES to be conditioned on their social and ecological impact. In view of its consequences, this transfer of debt would have merited a much deeper debate and more consultation, especially since it is associated with a long-awaited reform, the creation of a fifth branch of social security. By amending articles L. 200-1 and L. 200-2 of the Social Security Code, the Special Commission paved the way for the creation of a branch covering the risk of loss of autonomy, as a result of disability or old age. However, changes remain to be made. Several of us have tabled amendments to amend the founding article of our social security, Article L. 111-1 of the Code. Parliamentarians could only welcome the inclusion in the law of this fifth branch if they did not find themselves faced with a large unknown: funding. At this stage, only EUR 2.6 billion is foreseen from 2024, while the estimated needs are much greater. Every Member of this House, regardless of the bench on which he sits, is aware of the need for successful reform of dependency. I am thinking here of the suffering of people who are losing their autonomy, family caregivers and caring and accompanying professions. I also deplore the rest of the burden that is too great for families, which is detrimental to the care of the most precarious. Such a reform can only succeed if it is developed in a collegial and shared manner. The EDS group questioned the relevance of the methodology used. Funding is referred to a conference held in September or November, without any knowledge of the terms and conditions. Will the participation of capital finally be put on the table to relieve the income of the activity and the low wages? What will be the governance of this fifth branch? The Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy has a singular but democratic and innovative functioning: will it be preserved? What will be the involvement of the actors of autonomy, whether they are associations, care professionals or local and regional authorities? They will have to be able to express themselves and be heard so that this reform remains in the spirit of social democracy dear to French and French people. [[Applause on the benches of the EDS, SOC and GDR groups]] As you will understand: the EDS Group is against the transfer of an additional €105 billion to CADES, which is not, contrary to what the Minister of Public Action and Public Accounts may say, a mere accounting operation. It is a political choice that has consequences for our system of national solidarity. Our welfare state will lose the flexibility it needs to adapt to the major challenges of the twenty-first century. While our group welcomes the creation of a fifth branch, it regrets that there are no measures to improve the daily lives of French people. At the end of the finance conference, it will be up to Parliament to rise to the challenge of making the reform of dependency a real reform of social progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u89	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u90	The health and economic crisis we are experiencing is a global crisis that requires all of us to adapt, some of which will transform our lifestyles. Reflections on our methods of work, on our modes of travel, on our ways of consuming: I trust the imagination and adaptability of the French so that this after we are building will bring hope and improvement. But this cannot be done if the financial constraints are too severe. By providing massive aid, compensation, payment and financing, the Government has in fact increased the debt; However, debts can be considered as long as they are controlled and the prospects for repayment are reasonable. The financial situation of social security is difficult: there is no point in denying it. Revenues are declining, while rising expenditures related to the health crisis have resulted in high and unprecedented funding needs. As the Minister for Action and Public Accounts told the National Assembly on 2 June, the forecast deficit for 2020 alone is 52 billion euros, an amount never reached at the height of the 2008 financial crisis. If nothing is done, ACOSS could soon bring close to €95 billion of short-term debt to financial markets, banks and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations. This situation cannot be sustained. In the face of a number of interest rate or liquidity risks in the event of a sharp deterioration in the economic situation, a new debt transfer to CADES appeared to be the most obvious solution. It is a question of resuming and amortising the debt of social security. Therefore, these draft laws aim to allow CADES to cover the accumulated deficits of the basic social security schemes by EUR 136 billion, which extends the life of the fund until 2033. This transfer will relieve the cash flow of ACOSS, but above all, it will respect the doctrine that social debt must be amortized so as not to put the burden of benefits paid today on our children. The debt must disappear by gradually amortizing itself: it is a prerequisite, even if it is to postpone the date of extinction of the CADES because of the circumstances. It is indeed logical that contributions to social security should finance benefits without postponing the burden on the future, even if this is difficult because of this multifactorial crisis. So yes, the date of debt amortization is postponed, but the course is maintained, the will is firm and the actions implemented are strong. A rigorous management of social debt is all the more necessary as we see the challenge of old age and autonomy coming up. In the coming years, our country will face an unprecedented event, both in terms of the increasing number of insured persons to be protected and the cross-cutting solutions to be imagined. Some of the revenues allocated to CADES were seen as a funding channel to address the challenge of population ageing. Both bills sanctuate a share of CADES' revenues to shift them, from 2024 onwards, towards spending on older age. They also reflect on the creation of a specific risk of social protection or of a new branch on support for the autonomy of older persons and persons with disabilities, by requesting the Government to submit a report on how such a solution could be implemented. Today, I am very proud to be a parliamentarian, because it is the work of parliamentarians that has made this major step forward. The Special Committee, at the initiative of the rapporteur, intended to carry out its responsibilities by taking a firm position in favour of the creation of a fifth branch dedicated to autonomy. Of course, this risk was already covered by national solidarity through the APA and the PCH, but the definition of a fifth risk makes it possible to distinguish clearly within the general scheme the fifth branch, which will therefore be added to the four historical branches. The commission also intended to give clear direction to the work that would be completed under the Social Security Financing Act for 2021. It will then be a matter of being vigilant about the revenue that will be allocated to this branch in order to give it the means of its ambition. This first stone of a new building to be built collectively rejoices all the players in the sector, but it will remain a vain ambition if the necessary resources are not affected very quickly. It's important and urgent! Attention should also be paid to the governance of this branch by maintaining the balance between the CNSA and the departments, which are already working well together on these issues. It will be a matter of opening up approaches. Indeed, the French health system relies on multiple structures – health facilities for hospital care, medico-social and social care for so-called "fragile" audiences such as the elderly or disabled, and outpatient care for so-called "city" care. This organization is rather effective, and we all recognize that professionals are doing a remarkable job. For several years, however, the Government has been encouraging the establishment of a field medicine capable of strengthening the care of patients and residents throughout the country and of breaking down the sectors. The aim is to prevent, treat and accompany patients and residents as close as possible to their homes in a comprehensive and continuous manner. It is a question of thinking about the journey of any individual who needs care or accompaniment with empathy, taking into account the social context, giving priority to proximity and showing benevolence, a term which, widely used nowadays, covers the notion of humanity in care. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] Let us seize the opportunity of creating this fifth branch to act effectively and humanely, putting the human back at the heart of the devices. It is indeed the meaning that must be given to the implementation of the law on the organization and transformation of the health system, known as "my health 2022", the law on old age and autonomy and the long-awaited overhaul of our health system, which must be all opportunities to take care of the French. Let's act together!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u91	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u92	The health crisis we have just experienced has shown how valuable our social protection system is in protecting our citizens. Universal access to care, the guarantee of social benefits to maintain the standard of living and the assurance of a replacement income in the event of loss of employment are all things that we need to strengthen and expand. The health crisis has also revealed frailties, which are the result of a chronic underfunding organized for many years, especially for our hospitals and our EHPADs in front of the epidemic. Finally, it has tested the social security accounts, which will be in deficit of 52 billion euros in 2020, against 5 billion euros originally planned – a figure which the Government has been quick to present in an alarmist way to prepare minds for new efforts. But this staging of the return of the social security hole is deliberately misleading; It enables the executive to assume its responsibilities in the management of the crisis. Let us make it clear: the deficits recorded are less the result of an exponential increase in social spending than of a collapse in social security revenues as a result of the decisions taken by the executive to deal with the epidemic. Income from social security contributions has deteriorated sharply as a result of the closure of entire sectors of our economy, the introduction of partial unemployment and support for enterprises through cancellations or carry-overs of social security contributions. Is social security responsible for this financial situation? Has she been guilty of mismanagement? Of course not: it simply cushioned an economic shock of a terrible magnitude. After drawing up this alarmist and misleading picture, you are now submitting two texts which are primarily aimed at reducing the repayment of social debt from 2024 to 2033, as a result of the CADES recovery of 136 billion euros and of past and future social security deficits. Without knowing the final economic and budgetary effects of this unprecedented crisis, you are going to make the balance of any account of the health crisis, which will have major consequences for social policy. This debt transfer is a twofold mismanagement operation: first, because it aims to place the burden of covid debt on our social protection system, and secondly because it deprives social security of additional resources from 2024 – almost 18 billion that would have been released at the time of the extinction of the social debt. This money could have been used to finance progressive social policies. This decision is all the more incomprehensible because you had the opportunity to do otherwise by allowing the State to take its share of this exceptional debt resulting from the choices made by the Government to deal with a cyclical economic shock. Such a solution would have been more attractive in financial terms as well, as the State was in debt for less than social security. At the worst of times, you are lifting social security from a financial burden that will limit its ability to respond in the near future to the health and social needs of our citizens. This lack of resources is already at work in your text on the management of the loss of autonomy. In addition to allocating additional resources to social security, you prefer this poor budget piping solution. In addition to being largely insufficient and delayed in terms of needs, the €2.3 billion financial effort it plans for autonomy from 2024 onwards will result in a decrease in the resources allocated to the repayment of social debt, the extension of which in turn will prevent better coverage of social needs. However, all the actors involved in the dependency are making the same observation: there is an urgent need to invest in EHPADs, to increase staff, often paid less from the SMIC, and to reduce the rest of the burden on families. The announced creation of a fifth branch of social security dedicated to financing the loss of autonomy, presented as social progress, remains an empty shell. What will be its funding? What will be the level of care for addiction? Will it be a lever for extending our social security or, on the contrary, a means of weakening it and opening up a new market to the private sector? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] Too many important questions remain unanswered. That is why the GDR Group, as well as all the organizations representing pensioners, is opposed, as we speak, to the guidelines proposed by the Government through these texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u93	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u94	In the face of a health crisis of unprecedented intensity and the need for rapid responses, measures have been implemented to support the population, employees and the business world. The cost of some of them weighs on social accounts, but it is the role of social security to guarantee everyone, in all circumstances, the means necessary to ensure their subsistence and that of their family under decent conditions. While the balance of social accounts was on the horizon of 2023 and the end of the CADES debt was planned for 2024, today we have to deal with the deterioration of these accounts, both because of the collapse of revenues due to the fall in activity and because of a mechanical increase in expenditure, in particular that of ONDAM, linked to the direct taking over of the covid-19. The draft organic law provides for the postponement to 31 December 2033 of the termination of the CADES debt and an adaptation of the social security financing laws with a view to the creation of a new branch. As for the ordinary bill, it aims to transfer a debt of 136 billion euros to CADES in order to give the ACOSS a greater cash flow agility. This will cover deficits at the end of 2019 and future deficits, as well as part of the debt of public health institutions. It also provides for the transfer of part of the CSG assigned to CADES to CNSA to finance expenses related to the loss of autonomy, as well as the extension of the allocation of resources to CADES, which will thus retain its capacity to repay. Through these choices, we want to preserve our social protection system, to which the French are so attached. Finally, the bill provides for the taking over of a new risk, that of loss of autonomy, through the creation of a new branch. This measure is far-reaching and I welcome this social progress. Let me at this stage clarify a few notions that seem fundamental to me. Autonomy refers to freedom of choice, and in this sense it is a right, but it is also the ability to carry out the acts of daily life: it is when this capacity is reached that we speak of dependence. Dependence, on the other hand, is a lasting condition leading to incapacity and requiring assistance in carrying out the acts of daily life. It is common to talk about loss of autonomy when it comes to the elderly and lack or lack of autonomy when it comes to persons with disabilities. In any case, support for self-reliance is always necessary to reduce dependency as much as possible. In the face of the challenge of an ageing population, measures must now be taken to ensure the success of the demographic transition already under way in our country, in particular through a more preventive approach. That is what we are talking about today, as we look at the first legislative vehicles that, together with the next PLFSS and the future bill on age and autonomy, will initiate a policy of autonomy. These texts will be a landmark in the history of social security, the structure of which has not been changed since 1945, since they aim to create a fifth risk and a fifth branch, witnesses to the will of the Government and many parliamentarians to include more visibly the specific needs of old age and disability in the organization of social security. I will conclude my remarks by reiterating our vision of old age and autonomy. It is a matter of ensuring that our society takes into account longevity. This vision is expressed by strong and well thought out ambitions: the ambition to open up new rights, to promote well-contracting, helping the caregiver and the quality of life: the ambition to offer a diversified offer, including a home-based approach that meets expectations; the ambition to ensure coordination between reception and home facilities, but also to unblock the health and medical and social sectors; the ambition to ensure adequate housing, regardless of the place of life; the ambition to establish renewed governance and strong and sustainable financing – that is, of course, what we want to inaugurate by creating a branch dedicated to autonomy – Finally and above all, the ambition to ensure the recognition and upgrading of trades. I know, Mr. Secretary of State, I can count on you: the creation of this branch is proof of this. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The recognition of the risk of loss of autonomy and the creation of the autonomy branch are real opportunities to strengthen the right to the quality of life of the persons concerned and to accelerate the inclusive transition process. This societal challenge is inevitable, as the health crisis has revealed the immense fragility of those who have contributed to our collective and individual history: the elderly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u95	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u96	Here we are: we are in the post-covid social crisis -19. Mr Secretary of State, you are announcing for 2020 an abyssal deficit of €52.2 billion, while, after the promises of surplus, social security is back in the red, with an estimated deficit of €5.1 billion for 2020. The famous "after world", so long fantasized, is now in our hands. Nevertheless, the foundations of the "before world" remain, whatever is said, solid. Our social protection is not financed and we can no longer stop the yoyo of the deficits since, after having planned the end of the social debt in 2024, here you propose to extend the existence of the CADES until 2033, that is nine more years, by transferring to it 136 billion euros: 31 billion to cover the past deficits, 92 billion for the deficits of the years 2020 to 2023 and 13 billion to finance part of the debt of the public hospitals. The CADES was created in 1996 by Alain Juppé to clear the cumulative deficits of the general scheme, for a period which was to end in 2009. Its existence was extended by Mrs Aubry for five years, then by Philippe Douste-Blazy for another seven years, and finally by the Organic Law of 2010 which provided for its disappearance in 2025. We are almost there and that leaves us with the sad feeling of an eternally deficit social security. The two bills, organic and ordinary, that you propose to us are under the sign of confusion and haste. While in 2005 the Constitutional Council gave organic value to the rule that any new debt transfer should be accompanied by a corresponding revenue and that, in the face of the uncertainties of the economic situation, an organic law adopted in 2010 provided for a revenue guarantee clause, particularly in the case of the creation of tax or social niches, you confuse social finance with state finance, in violation of the Veil Act of 1994. By deciding in 2019 not to compensate for the exemptions from social contributions, by requiring social security to finance the measures in favour of yellow vests and by organising today the transfer of €13 billion to finance part of the debt of public hospitals, you draw full hands from the resources of social protection, further aggravating its debt. However, the report points out that hospital debt, managed by institutions which are in principle responsible for it, cannot be confused with the debt of compulsory schemes. The impact study considers the transfer of debts to social security agencies to be contradictory. This manipulation is, in short, only a tweaking since you are going to make successive transfers from CADES to health insurance and then to hospitals. What revenue does this bill provide for the financing of this large-scale debt? Actually, we're still treating on credit. Worse still, you reduce revenue by punctuating 0.15 points of CSG, or 2.3 billion a year, to finance the creation of a fifth branch to cover the risk of dependency, the fifth branch which, beyond the display, remains to be defined and financed. According to Dominique Libault, it is far from the point of view, which estimates the additional resources needed to finance this new branch at 6 to 8 billion a year. There are other avenues, as confirmed by the Council of State, which considers that an organic law is not necessary for this and that this should be discussed in the context of the next PLFSS project. The rush and the announcement effects are well orchestrated by your majority, while there is unanimity here to recognize the urgent need to debate a large bill dedicated to old age and autonomy, in consultation with the CNSA, the departments, social security, the State and households. How will this new branch work? Will there be new aid or will the current arrangements be upgraded? Who does what? Who pays? For who? Why? What about the 2.3 billion that have to finance this fifth branch from 2024? It is true that the CADES was already exciting many appetites in view of the reform of pensions, but now you are making it a tote fund. You believe that the creation of this branch by a simple amendment is historic: what is historic is that the sub-objectives of the PLFSS are thus being dismantled, all without providing for any funding, leaving this care to your successors. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The group The Republicans proposes that the 13 billion of the hospital's debt, which belongs to the state, be compensated by it and that the financing of dependency be increased by 2021. Consequently, the group as a whole will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u97	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u98	I salute the Minister of Solidarity and Health who joined us. In exceptional crisis, exceptional measures, exceptional financial means and the establishment of a new branch of social security for autonomy! The enormous amounts we are debating show how badly the health crisis has undermined the nation's accounts, particularly its social accounts. However, they have helped to keep our health and social systems, which have been unheard of in our country's history. The MODEM Group is fully aware of the need to identify the covid debt, linked to these exceptional expenses, to transfer it to CADES and, consequently, to endorse the extension of this fund until 2033. It is up to our generation to repay this debt in ten years so that we do not let our children pay the interest and our grandchildren pay the principal. While the two texts we are examining present a particularly technical and financial aspect, they also include measures of great humanity which suggest a reform expected to accompany the old age. The crisis has revealed the weaknesses and fragility of our society. We all found that the most affected were the elderly and all the staff and structures at their service. This episode should allow national representation to complete our social protection system. Our predecessors, in 1945, at a time when life expectancy was 67 years, could not deal with this subject when the issue of caring for the elderly did not arise. The MODEM Group welcomes last Monday's establishment of the fifth branch of social security as a special committee, by means of parliamentary amendments. Of course, this is only a first step and much remains to be done. Because this reform cannot only be financial, the coming weeks will be crucial to reflect together, with stakeholders, in order to rethink fully organization and governance. Should we do this around the CNSA in order to promote prevention and autonomy, because the goal is to age well in good health? In this context, it is necessary to promote and make more attractive the trades of the sector, and to bring the logics of autonomy for older people closer to those of persons with disabilities. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the work that remains to be done is immense! During the examination of the text in the special committee, some oppositions denounced a mere announcement effect, a pure shelling, or even an empty shell to evoke the creation of this fifth branch – we heard these words again this afternoon. If our predecessors of 1945 had imagined that social security spending would one day reach 470 billion euros, and if they had conditioned its creation to the presence of ringing and stumbling species, are you sure that it would have been born? Let us remember that in the summer of 1945, when consultations for the implementation of this immense work were initiated, collective membership was far from being achieved! Let us remember that it was not until 1946 that the principle of its generalization, which will take a long time, was decided! Finally, let us remember that it took twenty years and the so-called Jeanneney reform of 1967 for the financial separation of risks within the three autonomous branches to be effective. This will result in the creation of the three funds: CNAM, the National Health Insurance Fund, CNAV, the National Old Age Insurance Fund, and CNAF, the National Family Allowance Fund. You understand that, as Rome did, our social protection system has not been built in one day. The ordinances of 1945 are a common reference in our national history: let us promise that June 2020 will find the same echo in a few years! To this end, in order to complete this first stage, the MODEM Group will support an amendment aimed at explicitly including in the founding article of social security that the nation affirms its commitment to the universal and solidarity nature of the support for autonomy. [[Applause on the banks of the MODEM group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] As you will understand, the MODEM Group will vote the texts with a spirit of responsibility mixed with a sense of pride. Minister, Secretary of State, be assured that our group will stand by you to carry out this reform well.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u99	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u100	With the examination of these texts, we are launching a parliamentary debate that will not really be one since your decision is taken and that you feel, as you said before the special committee, that it is "the best," despite the questions raised by economists, the disagreements of trade union organisations or the condemnation of the High Council for the financing of social protection. The result is therefore known in advance: you will transfer 136 billion euros to CADES, putting an premature end to the debate on how to deal with the debt created by the current crisis, while its particular nature justified specific treatment. The Government has decided to act as "before" by denying the specificity of this debt: you therefore have at least the advantage of consistency since, since the beginning of the quinquennium, you have chosen to distinguish as little as possible the scope of social protection from that of the State budget. Not long ago, you decided not to compensate for the exemptions from social contributions. The debt we are talking about is not, however, linked to a structural imbalance in the social security system, but to decisions by the state to deal with a cyclical crisis. These are decisions of the State, which we do not dispute on the substance, which have had consequences on expenditure as well as on the income of social security and UNEDIC. As suggested by the High Council for the Financing of Social Protection, the Government could, in our view, have decided to take on its own account the exceptional deficit created by the crisis. There were many advantages to this solution. The first is the fact that the State borrows on more favourable terms than the social agencies, with a regular difference of 0.1 to 0.3 points. A few days ago, the Government seems to have refused a cash loan to AGIRC, the General Association of Executive Retirement Institutions, which the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies would have refinanced on short-term markets. AGIRC had to resort to banks and pay the swap difference, which could have been avoided if the State had granted the loan. A second advantage lies in the nature of the debts concerned and the consequences thereof. Since 1996, the social security debt has been amortized and thus fully repaid, interest and capital. She's got to move to zero. On the other hand, the State's debt is managed in the very long term: the State bears only interest and borrows the principal indefinitely, which amounts to rolling the debt. The general debate is on the level of this debt of the State, but not on its extinction. Your choice leads us to fear that you will mortgage social spending and reduce room for manoeuvre at the very moment when the Segur of Health opens up and the Government announces that it wants to invest in the hospital and in the old age. While the annual cost of the covid-19 debt borne by the State would be EUR 1.5 billion per year, which corresponds to interest, the transfer of this debt to the CADES, which was due to expire in 2024, deprives the nation's social policy of some EUR 10 billion per year of CSG, of contribution for the repayment of social debt, of unemployment contributions until 2033. The best evidence that your project is basically a dead end is that you only grant a fraction of CSG to CNSA. This EUR 2.3 billion will be insufficient compared to the amounts mentioned in the Libault report. This transfer is much later. You choose to repay the debt rather than satisfy the social needs, and you decide to deprive yourself of any alternative financing, whether it is money financing or a specific tax that would make a contribution to the richest of the French. You opt for the proportionality of the tax as we prefer progressivity. Like many of the caisses we consulted, as well as the social partners and the French and French, we believe that, despite what you say, your choice is not the best. With regard to the creation of the fifth branch, we welcome the fact that the loss of autonomy is finally on the agenda of the Government, even though, at this stage, we are not entirely dealing with the great law promised for the month of December 2018. I know that, for the Republic on its way, everything becomes the night of August 4th, everything is considered a great reform. Of course, the majority, up to the head of state in person, never misses an opportunity to celebrate themselves, but at this point, the announcement is just an announcement. This is a tautology, but nothing is said about what a fifth branch could be, which, at the very least, cannot be a branch like the others because the risk of autonomy is of a particular nature. It involves the CNSA and the departments, at the confluence of health and social. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Ms Jeanine Dubie also applauds]] You are not saying anything about how you design this branch, its governance, or the public policy it involves, a necessarily comprehensive public policy that can not only be made of monetary benefits, but must also include services. You're not saying anything else; You do not say anything about the means you intend to devote, so weak or so late. In short, it would be excessive to consider that your bill is on the record. Ultimately, your great words will not be the great remedies promised.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u101	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u102	Members of the IDU and independent group will not vote for the two texts before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u104	They'll abstain. Indeed, Minister, these two texts are ambivalent, if not schizophrenic. There is a reasonable, pragmatic and responsible first step to ensure that the social debt associated with the health crisis is not passed on to future generations. This health crisis is turning into an economic and social crisis that in a way brings down the balance of social accounts – even if we could discuss the fact that they have been truly balanced. This requires repayment to mature for 10 years, thanks to the mechanism already used in 2011, following the 2008-2009 crisis. It is to extend the existence of the CADES and the amortization period of the social debt. This aspect of the texts, apart from taking into account one third of hospital debt, does not pose a problem to us. On the contrary, we support this approach, which I have described as reasonable and responsible. As far as hospitals are concerned, we question the scope of their debt and the institutions concerned. In the special committee, our questions on the subject did not receive identical answers depending on whether we were dealing with the Minister or the Secretary of State. What about private institutions participating in health cooperation groups that may have created debt to invest? What about private institutions carrying out public service tasks on behalf of the public hospital? Are they involved in taking over part of the debt? Once we have some clarification on these points, we will be pretty clear about the objectives pursued, while regretting that the hospital's specific debt is in some way weighed on social security. Indeed, she is suffering a double penalty: she has been subjected to very strong constraints, and she still sees her revenues amputated by 13 billion. Then comes the second part of the project, on the creation of the fifth risk, that of dependence. No one here is opposed in principle; But, as I said to the Secretary of State earlier, your Government, not more than others before, has dealt with the problem. It is not because it is included in the law, even if it is through parliamentary amendments – with all this implies benevolence on your part and hope on the part of the colleagues who tabled them – that the difficulty is solved. Until we have resolved the problem of financing the overall care of the elderly, we will not have made progress. The departments will be unable, tomorrow, to continue to pay the personalized autonomy allowance – APA – as they are strangled elsewhere. But we know, in any case, that the demographic and civilizational shock of the explosion of dependence is inconvenient with our ability to take charge of it. As long as we have not decided which taxes and principle of solidarity should govern the management of the old age, putting the fifth branch and the fifth risk in the marble of the law will only be an announcement effect. [[Ms. Jeanine Dubie applauds]] I'm sorry to tell you, but making these kinds of decisions is even more dangerous today than in the past, as public speaking is decredible. Our fellow citizens no longer believe in a public speech that does not have a concrete effect on their daily lives. Adopting this law just after the crisis of the covid-19, when we have to deal with the economic crisis and face the fears of our fellow citizens, is giving grain to the populists and the extremes. It is an additional responsibility that you take and that we do not accept.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u105	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u106	Yesterday, the President of the Republic promised that there would be no tax increases. The next day, less than twenty-four hours later, he betrayed his promise. We're used to it and the French don't give much credit to his words anymore. Last night, he falsely lied to our fellow citizens. The message is skilfully disguised – I recognize this merit – under the creation of the fifth branch of social security; But this new branch remains an empty shell, because you deprive it of recipes. The French must know that we are talking about considerable sums: in 2019, taxpayers paid 16.3 billion euros to amortize the social debt. I invite you to read page 15 of the impact statement. You can see the extent of this coarse manipulation: between 2024 and 2033, it is not less than 165 billion euros that will be collected from the French! To prevent this from happening, you have chosen to have this text reviewed on a Monday afternoon, when most of our colleagues are in their constituencies; But the amount at stake is considerable. On the same page, we learn that, since the debt will be financed by the CADES, the financial burden will be – it is written, I was the first surprised – 31 billion euros, i.e. an interest rate of 2.25%, while the Central Bank is lending 0%. These 2 billion euros a year, a financial burden unduly paid by the taxpayer, will enrich – let's say so! – your friends. Between 1996 and 2033, CADES' interest charges will have amounted to EUR 50 billion. It should be noted that €2 billion a year would be needed to almost double the number of resuscitation beds in our country. Do you think the French won't notice this unworthy pass trick? They will of course have understood that you have no more words. But Charles de Courson pointed out something even more serious – I hope you will answer his three questions. Why anticipate future spending? Why take over a third of hospital debt – the famous promise – on state budgets? Why unfairly charge the covid-19 crisis? Indeed, it is a proportional and non-progressive levy, even as you maintain the abolition of the solidarity tax on capital – ISF – and the exemption from capital taxes. You prefer to continue to pursue your policy in favour of the richest while making the most modest pay. It's a disguised tax; It's clever, but the French will find out. It'll be one more lie to your sad record. Proportional and non-progressive contributions represent an absolute scandal in the field of social justice; We understand the maneuver! In addition, with this measure, you are jeopardizing the long-term financing of social spending, including pensions and dependency. It's very paradoxical: you're creating a fifth branch, but you're draining future resources. It's incomprehensible, or rather too understandable: you're trying to close the holes because, as a transferor to Germany, you have refused to monetize the debt by the European Central Bank – a strategy chosen by England, the United States, China and Japan. For let us be clear: either we will manage to monetize the debt linked to the crisis of the covid-19, and France will be able to survive; either we will not, and we will be burdened with taxes. Today we are looking at the first tax of a new type: a hidden but very heavy tax, which will deprive the social security budget of the revenues to overcome the crisis and to really develop our hospital system and our city medicine. So, on the one hand, you are negotiating the famous Segur of Health, and on the other, you are depriving CADES – which could have been very useful, in particular to compensate for the imbalances of pension reform. All this is very sad and shows how much you are sailing on sight. As we face high unemployment, you are building an undersized recovery plan and refusing to make the debt pay by the European Central Bank. That's why we're at the beginning of the tax strike: tax or contribution, call it what you want, but since it's a proportional and not a progressive levy, it's on the modest French that you'll weigh it, to save your clientele.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u107	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u108	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u109	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u110	First of all, in the text of the commission, I call the articles of the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u111	Mr Philippe Chalumeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u112	Article 1 extends the date of the end of the repayment of the social debt by CADES to 31 December 2033. No ordinary law can carry out a debt recovery without providing in parallel for the transfer of additional revenue. This higher value rule ensures the financial balance of CADES. First of all, I would like to stress the good management that underlies this article: CADES reimburses capital and interest at higher rates; it is efficient and reliable in the markets. We therefore act responsibly, because it is a powerful tool. Secondly, two blows are made with one stone: one creates the pipe necessary for the sustainable financing of dependency. The moment is historic. In the face of demographic risks and precisely after the crisis of the covid -19, we have the responsibility to create this fifth branch to support and help the most deprived, the most fragile people. We have a responsibility to accompany this fifth risk. To make a branch, you need a pipe, a primer and an ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u113	Above all, a tree is needed!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u114	This pipe, we're going to create it. For the start, it will probably be necessary to have a conference of financiers and to integrate 0.15 CSG points in order to secure this sustainable funding – that is the spirit of the text. We also need an ambition that will translate into a law on autonomy and old age, which will come in its time. This text will address the home approach, the upgrading and attractiveness of human assistance trades, new rights for our seniors...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u115	We must conclude, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u116	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We measure the level of solidarity of a society to the well-being of its most fragile population. The stakes are at stake, ladies and gentlemen. Article 1 contains all the elements for success.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u117	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u118	Mr Minister, there is no doubt that our country will take much longer to recover from the crisis than it did. In the context of this crisis, you had a particular responsibility to ensure that the French continued to finance our health insurance system. That's why you probably had no choice but to transfer the debt to CADES – which the Republican Group approves. During these discussions, I would have liked to have been able to discuss the safety and sustainability of the funding of our health care system, which you owe to the French. It is currently financed by social contributions which we have been promised will not increase, by tax which we have been promised will not increase, and by debt. As our health care system – particularly the public hospital – is financed by debt, how can we assure the French that it will be sustainable, that it will last for the duration, beyond the dates that have been set for the repayment of the social debt? Let us take the example of the resumption of hospital debt. I share your idea of resuming hospital debt, because it is, in fact, an indirect means of helping and supporting the hospital world. But, if we do not change the way the hospital is financed, if we simply settle for the ONDAM variable, in a few years, the public hospitals will have restored part of the debt that we are going to recover. But we know that this system cannot be sustainable. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] I therefore call for a real debate on the future of funding our health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u119	I have before me four deletion amendments, Nos 5, 8, 9 and 13. I call Mr Dharréville to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u120	As a result of the transfer of the social debt to an amount of 136 billion euros, this article postpones the expiry of this debt from 2024 to 2033. Through this operation, it is a question of bringing the debt linked to covid-19 to social security, while preempting a debate on the need to deepen the financing of protection in the post-epidemic context. Emmanuel Macron repeated yesterday that there would be no tax increases. There will be none for the wealthiest, not for the large multinationals, nor for those who have benefited from the decisions taken over the last three years. [[Laughs and applause on the benches of the GDR, LR and FI groups]] So how are we going to finance social expenditure for the hospital and EHPADs in order to offer better social benefits? To our colleague who is talking about pipes, I want to ask: Where did the big scale go? At the end of the day, that's what we need. The fire is there, and we see that the public hospital and the EHPADs are in an acute crisis that has not stopped in the wake of recent events. You recreate the social security hole and then send the following message: more efforts will have to be made in the years to come to restore social accounts. We know this dangerous smoke-and-scamage strategy. Reversing the maturity of the social debt amounts to making the insured pay the consequences of the management of the health crisis by the Government. Reversing the deadline means depriving ourselves of the room for manoeuvre to finance the present and future social needs of our fellow citizens, the health needs that will grow in the context of an economic crisis. That is why we are calling for the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u121	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u122	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u123	The extension of the CADES announces the death of the end of the security hole. While this hole worries all the French, it is decided that the debt covid will become a social debt, without even involving the social partners in the reflection. Not only is this not fair, especially for social democracy, but we are also depriving ourselves of the resources for hospitals and to finance the fifth branch that will surely be created tonight. That is why we propose the deletion of the article, so that the CADES is not extended and that we can end the hole in the security in 2023 or 2024, as planned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u124	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u125	This article provides for the extension of the existence of the CADES until 31 December 2033, which will have the effect of maintaining pressure on the social security accounts for a fairly long period of time and will justify the austere measures to which this government and previous governments have accustomed us. The fact that the revenues mentioned correspond to the proceeds of taxation of any kind whose base covers all income received by individual taxpayers is extremely problematic. They combine income from compulsory levies and allow porosity between the general state budget and social security accounts, which are financed by social contributions. In addition, it relies solely on natural persons to finance the social security debt. We're a long way from the runoff. That is why we propose to delete this article. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr. Secretary of State, to thank you for responding to my intervention.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u126	I call Mr Boris Vallaud to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u127	This deletion amendment is justified by all the detailed explanations we have given in our interventions. In reality, this transfer of 136 billion euros to CADES is threatening the future, the ability to meet certain social needs of the hospital and the elderly. We'd have found the pipes, but some people are wondering where the big scale is. As for the conclusion, you know it: we found the large scale, but there is no water, there will be little money for this fifth branch. Seeming to be doing this is pretending.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u128	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u129	My fairly detailed answer will be in line with the debates we have had in the special committee. Your amendment would have the effect of eliminating the extension until 2033 of the CADES, which would make the transfer of 136 billion euros, provided for under the ordinary law, lapse. What situation would we be in then? The Central Agency of Social Security Agencies would be suffocated, as a minimum deficit of EUR 52 billion is expected this year, which would even threaten the payment of pensions to millions of French citizens. In addition to these 52 billion, the €31 billion recorded can be added to the conclusion of the 2019 accounting year. It is already at its ceiling, which we have raised twice up to EUR 95 billion. You also dispute the fact that social security bears a share of the financial weight resulting from the crisis of the Covid-19. However, we should not push too far the logic of opposition between the State and social security: if the State is not able to finance itself tomorrow as well as today, and if the interest charges increase – which we are not immune to – it is all the French who will pay it, the same ones who currently benefit from social protection expenditure. For my part, I am pleased to see that social security is capable of assuming its role in the face of a crisis of the magnitude of the one we have experienced. The USSRAF network has shown exemplary responsiveness, allowing many companies to save their cash flow through the deferral of contributions. The introduction of a partial opt-out scheme has made it possible for more than 8 million employees not to be directly threatened by unemployment, as has been the case with several of our economic partners. The extension of the amortization period of the social debt is indeed a necessity, without forcing investment in our social protection, as shown by the Ségur de la santé, whose responsibility you have, Mr.Minister, the bonuses granted to the staff of medical and medical-social institutions, or the transfer of CSG provided for in the ordinary bill which we will have to discuss in the evening. At present, we have the chance to take advantage of particularly positive refinancing conditions, which allows CADES, through the signature of the State, to become in debt at historically low rates. My dear colleague Boris Vallaud, this is a question that you are dear to. François Ecalle, judge of the Court of Auditors, recalled recently that the difference between the interest rates enjoyed by the State and the CADES is extremely small.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u130	She's still not a loser!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u131	Therefore, there is no objection to CADES being able to back up this co-financing, benefiting from a market depth that allows it to be much better served than its needs. For all these reasons, we will deliver an opinion against these amendments, as the Special Committee has proposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u132	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor to give the Government's opinion on the same amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u133	Like the rapporteur, I am expressing an opinion against these amendments. Is this covid-19 debt owed to the state or to social security? The debate is legitimate and we could spend a lot of time sorting between the right grain and the chalk. But let me, in my turn, paraphrase Sacha Distel's song: in the middle of the night, a siren calls fire all firefighters.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u134	Yes, but there's no water!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u135	There is a little fire and we need to transfer some of the accumulated deficits to CADES without delay, so as to ensure the payment of social benefits for the duration – Mr Vallaud, I know that you are very sensitive to this point. Nothing would be worse than a situation that would put us in tension. It should be recalled that social security played its role as a social shock during the crisis, that partial unemployment saved a very large number of jobs and the purchasing power of several million French. It is true, Mr. Grelier, that it was necessary to spend, to buy protective equipment, to arm our hospitals, to set up medical evacuations. "Whatever it takes," said the President of the Republic. And all this had a cost. The debate on the distribution of the debt burden is legitimate, but the extension of the CADES, which we are proposing to Parliament today, seems to me to be a balanced solution: on the one hand, this mechanism has already been used in 2011; On the other hand, it guarantees the conditions for a secure repayment of social debt by protecting social benefits and allowing us to finance them on a long-term basis; Finally, and we will discuss it tonight – late no doubt! – when we look at the draft law on social debt and autonomy, we create a new risk within social security, proof of the importance that the Government attaches to its history, to respect for its rules, to its harmonisation and to its protective role – the text intends to respond to all the issues before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u136	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u137	These deletion amendments deserve support. The minister referred to firefighters, but for the Government it is always the same people who have to sacrifice themselves. No action has been taken to ensure that our country's highest incomes contribute to the national effort. It is the popular and middle classes that will pay the pensions of our pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u138	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u139	When there is an emergency, it is always the French people who pay... However, the President of the Republic promised the opposite yesterday, not even twenty-four hours ago. He said there would be no tax increase: "Move, there is nothing to see! But you say exactly the opposite. What we are witnessing in this Chamber is quite surreal! The mechanism you are considering, because it is not progressive, is profoundly unfair. What's going on tonight is amazing. We're talking about huge numbers! A new sample has just been created and the pipe you're talking about is going to be blocked: there will be only a tiny net left for addiction. This is how the French people are burdened with a new levy, contrary to the commitment of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u140	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u141	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u142	The distribution between the State and the social field of debt amortization is an important issue. One could discuss at length what expenses should be allocated to one or the other. For my part, I think that the proposed distribution is balanced. It is normal, in fact, to compensate for the lack of income from social contributions or to finance the partial activity, whether the social field is requested. We will come back in the fall when we look at the finance bill, on the subject of compensation; For the time being, the distribution seems to me to be balanced. It seems to me more delicate, on the other hand, to know which field the best refinances the debt. In other words, how many hundreds of millions of euros can be earned by amortising the debt in the field of the state? On this point, I do not entirely agree with you, Mr Vallaud, and I maintain what I have already said in committee. You assume that CADES' debt will die in a few years: it was due to end in 2024, but it could find investment segments of three to five years in the market. However, these segments are less promising than the 10-year investment segments. However, once the significant amount of EUR 136 billion has been transferred to CADES, it will be able to take advantage of the demand from these ten-year markets and thus benefit from a better refinancing cost, which is similar to the conditions enjoyed by the State today. Another false debate is the turnover of the debt on the state side as opposed to the extinction of the debt on the social side. On the one hand, the public debt is global. On the other hand, the social field does not show the same turnover because CADES is over 16 billion a year, allowing it to reduce its debt year after year. However, you forget the debt of the ACOSS, which, in turn, increases: the social field becomes itself a turnover of debt due to the transfer to the CADES. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] In essence, it is preferable, for good debt management, for CADES to absorb the amortization of the entire social field. I understand that this is the subject of a political debate in view of the symbolism of the subject, but I cannot let it be said that the best management of debt refinancing is that which takes place through the State. That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u143	Mr Boris Vallaud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u144	I would remind you, Minister, that we supported the measures implemented during the health crisis, starting with partial unemployment. If we didn't do anything, we wouldn't be able to pay the social benefits anymore, you say, but your answer is incomplete. In reality, there are three possibilities: either we leave our debt to social security – that's not what we're proposing –; either we transfer it to CADES – that's what you're proposing – or the State takes it back to its account through a dedicated fund, separately from ordinary social security expenditure and revenue. With regard to the rates to which CADES could benefit, the difference was between 0.1 and 0.3 per cent, which was already the case when CADES had the possibility to borrow within 10 years. The historical chronicle testifies to this original and persistent differential. On the other hand, you can always say that the issue of turnover and payment of interest or principal does not matter, but the annual cost of debt is not the same depending on whether it is managed by the State or the CADES. This is an objective fact that is not contested by economists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u145	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u146	I would like to understand, Minister. Indeed, these 136 billion raise three main questions. Let us start with the last, which concerns the 10 billion recovered over three years from the debt of 30 billion public hospitals. The Government had announced that they would be responsible for the State budget, but you turned them over to CADES,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u147	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u148	Promises only bind those who believe in them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u149	...which amounts to re-applying the CSG, the CRDS and the 2.1 billion of the pension reserve fund, the RIF. Please explain why you changed your position. I have already mentioned the second question, which concerns the 123 billion debt, i.e. the transfer of debt of 136 billion less the coverage by the CNAM of 13 billion. You are transferring the future deficit of 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 to CADES without ever presenting to the special commission or to our assembly the revenue and expenditure projections for those years. This is the first time that the future deficit has been tipped beyond the current year to the tune of 40 billion – 92 billion in future deficits minus the projected 2020 deficit of 52 billion. We've never seen this before!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u150	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u151	It's huge!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u152	Three years.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u153	How can you announce such an amount, when you have not passed on the additional expenses and revenues to us? I come to the third point: the 31 billion cumulative deficits not recorded at 31 December 2019, plus the 52 billion projected for 2020 – we are still 92 billion! We are told that it is not to be touched under the penalty of aggravating the debt of the CADES, but it is not on the road. You could have transferred these amounts directly to the state budget, which could perfectly manage them as part of the public debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u154	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u155	This would have saved your room for manoeuvre to finance the fifth branch of social security on dependency. Thank you, Minister, for answering these three questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u156	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u157	The minister isn't answering?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u158	I have before me four amendments, Nos 12, 4, 6 and 16, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u159	There is another way to do this, in fact, than to transfer the debt to CADES; It's about transferring it to the state. This is a political choice, in the noble sense of the term.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u160	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u161	Or the French are deprived of the revenues of the CADES of 2019, that is 18 billion, and therefore of public policies related to health and dependence, to allocate them to the repayment of the capital of the debt; or the debt is transferred to the State budget, with interest paid each year. The Government has made a choice, but we have the right to have another position. I want to say it from the outset, to avoid the bad faith of some. This amendment has one prerequisite: that the 136 billion debt should not be transferred to CADES. We propose to replace 2033 in the year 2027 – and not 2028 as some have proposed in committee – in order to allocate now part of the CSG and the CRDS to the financing of dependency.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u162	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u163	It is in line with the words of Charles de Courson. We propose to postpone the extinction of the CADES until 2028 and not until 2033 as foreseen in the article. As Christine Pires Beaune has just said, we believe that covid debt must be borne by the State and not by CADES. Repressing the extinction of the text to only 2028 would make it possible to release new resources and finance the new risk created by the text. I hope, Mr Minister, that by giving your opinion on this amendment, you will answer the questions posed by Charles de Courson.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u164	I call Mr Perrut to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u165	The group The Republicans proposes to shift the deadline for the repayment of social debt by CADES by one year, from 2033 to 2034. I think you would benefit from accepting this solution, which would allow the financing of dependency reform to begin earlier. This could amount to approximately EUR 15 to 17 billion. This amendment is consistent with an amendment to the ordinary bill which provides for the entry into force of Article 2 affecting a share of CSG in the CNSA from 2021 instead of 2024. Such a measure would allow the work on dependency reform to begin as early as 2021 without waiting for 2024, as provided for in the bill, and would give credibility to the text. The reform of dependency deserves us to be united in defending it. It is not simply a question of saying that the creation of a new branch to take care of the loss of autonomy is urgent. Still, we have to give ourselves the means to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, we invite you to support this amendment so that together we can have the means to implement the reform as quickly as possible, with a simple and clear provision, without any negative consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u167	Perfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u168	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u169	These amendments all pursue the same objective, but not on the same path, since some propose to anticipate the end of debt repayment by CADES and others to delay it. Mine even aims to fix it to 2041 in an attempt to give substance to the creation of a fifth branch. This is the real debate: how to finance in a sustainable and sustainable way the care of dependency, the old age, how to ensure the dignity of our seniors, whether they are in institutions or, as most of them wish, still at home. I am well aware, Mr Minister, that you intend to refer this debate to the finance conference, but I would like to know what the Government's philosophy is in this matter. What shares should be owed to debt, taxation and insurance, whether individual or compulsory? What is the relationship between income – that from work or from any other source – and dependency? We need to know that in order to move forward and not remain critical – which I admit is easy: "You are only making an ad effect that will remain an ad without effect. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u170	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u171	These various amendments propose either to reduce or to extend the amortisation period of social debt, and hence the life of the CADES. The year 2033 was chosen as a point of balance with regard to the mobilization of resources and the option of transferring, from 2024 onwards, part of CSG's revenue to the financing of the future autonomy law. Therefore, I cannot be in favour of this date being postponed to 2041 as proposed by Mr Brindeau, or even to 2034 as requested by Jean-Pierre Door's amendment defended by Mr Perrut...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u172	Excellent proposal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u173	... since 2033 is a ceiling that aims to protect future generations. Going beyond a nine-year extension would not be reasonable in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u175	In any case, we capitalize on 2024 funding under the CSG 0.15 point. As for the anticipation of the end of depreciation in 2027 or 2028, it would obviously call into question the allocation of the 136 billion that we are going to debate in the course of the review of the ordinary bill, knowing that thus transferring a lesser sum to the CADES would encounter arguments already set out: the CADES is a solid institution whose signature is based on that of the State and which thus owes itself at a lower cost, which does not prevent in any way investment, as the Government does, for better social protection for the French. Let us look forward to having social security institutions strong enough to bear an additional debt. Our hearings also allowed us to explore the dual option proposed by Mr. Door: reorienting, from 2024, 0.15 CSG point to finance the loss of autonomy and extending the duration of the CADES for another year. Our committee quickly realized that this would seriously weaken CADES in the market, as a 12% decrease in CSG revenues would not be neutral. This would amount to a first loan until 2024, and then to return to his banker's house to ask him to extend the duration of the loan by one year on the pretext that 12 per cent of his revenues were lost, while requesting a new loan of 136 billion. I am not sure that this new request would be as well received as the first. I can therefore only reiterate, my dear colleague Door, my unfavorable opinion in committee, while taking into account your concern not to exempt the Government from the assumption of autonomy – but this is a debate that we will have in our consideration of the future bill that I have mentioned. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the investment of my colleagues in the special committee; Many of them have followed our debates during the various hearings we have conducted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u176	It's not secondary, financing!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u177	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u178	These four amendments are underpinned by two logics which, although they do not agree, since one leads to a shortening of the extension of the CADES and the other to its extension, are undoubtedly justifiable on the one hand and on the other. But I will bring some figures that explain the choice of the year 2033. Mrs Pires Beaune, Mrs Dubie, you want to reduce the share of social security expenditure financed by the CADES, but we already know that, of the 136 billion debts, it will recover 13 billion corresponding to the debt which is now that of the hospitals.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u179	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u180	This is a matter of social security, and you will not disapprove of it. And then there is the 31 billion accumulated debt by ACOSS at the end of 2019: it is also social security. As I don't hear anyone contesting it, I think you all agree with me. Thus, 92 billion remains: 52 billion are already spent, of which 8 to 9 billion are spent on additional expenditure under ONDAM, i.e. they still have to be included in the social security column. Finally, it can be argued whether expenditure on partial unemployment corresponds to social protection measures, whether it is for the State to assume them on the pretext that it has decided to do so,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u181	Yes! It's national solidarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u182	... but I consider that measures which have played a role as a social damper in a period when they were necessary could at least in large part be regarded as social security expenditure. Let us accept, however, for the theoretical debate – which in my mouth is not pejorative – that this is not the case: we are in any case at least 52 billion euros that are part of the social security debt. There are still 40 billion, which are provisions, and I would remind you that this is not the first time: in 2011, at the time of the previous extension of the CADES, 68 billion debt had been transferred to it in anticipation. This will be the case for 40 billion, because we have not yet taken stock of all the expenditure made and it has not escaped you that, even if the bulk of the epidemic is behind us, there is still expenditure to come – we have not completely left the phase of partial unemployment, and expenditure has yet to be integrated under the ONDAM. I would therefore not be able to tell you precisely at this stage, even to a maximum of 4 or 5 billion, and even if we agreed on the definition of departure, this would be a matter of the purity of social security and that of the State. It is certain anyway that an extension of the CADES until 2027 or 2028 would not suffice. Theoretical debates may lead to the choice of 2030 or 2031, but the essential thing is to carry out this debt transfer to the CADES, a reassuring transfer for everyone and that makes it possible to escape a difficulty. We know how to repay this social debt, we have already done it seriously, like others before us by prolonging it also seriously and, each time, it has been repaid at a good rate. The Government's simple solution would have no financial consequences for the French. The other two amendments propose that the CADES be extended even further to cover expenditure related to dependency earlier. This proposal honours its authors and I, in turn, recognise all the work that has been carried out in committee on this issue. But this bill uses a formula for which we have been a number for a long time: a fraction of the CSG intended so far for CADES should go tomorrow to CNSA to help finance the necessary expenses related to the loss of autonomy. This mechanism will be applied from 2024 and not earlier because the conditions for the repayment of social debt have contractual value and that retroactive modification of them would not be a sign of seriousness. We need to keep our credit to be able to borrow at attractive rates, which is extremely important. [[Smile]] I understand the spirit of these amendments and I see their sexy side, if I may say so, since they would create a rather painless levy by extending the one that has existed for many years, but extending more to fully fund a new expenditure is not in the same framework as the bill. I would prefer to get the money through the financers' conference, and from this year onwards, so that we can already have a specific budget in the PLFSS of the new year, without even waiting for the implementation of other mechanisms. The Government has committed itself and I will be there to do so on his behalf. I mean, I'll be here...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u183	We don't know!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u184	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In theory! In any case, if I'm not on the bench of the government, I'll be on the bench of the deputies! By then, all funding arrangements will have been identified. Let's rejoice: this time, we're there! [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not touch on the balance of the text because, even if the proposals from both sides of the House are driven by the best intentions in the world, we could discuss them indefinitely. The balance found is good and I assure you that it allows us to see far and in the direction of justice. The opinion is therefore unfavourable on these four amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u185	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u186	In addition to what Mr. Minister has just said, it must be borne in mind that a public debt at the level of ours makes good debt management a requirement. We cannot procrastinate on this and that is one of the objects of the two texts we are discussing. These amendments go in two different directions but ask the same question: can the refinancing of the social debt be optimised by extending it beyond 2033 and thus by taking up a share of CSG earlier, or can we reduce the wing and therefore the duration of the new debt of the CADES? You can think that going from 2033 to 2034 wouldn't be much. However, those who participated in the hearings all considered this to be a mistake, because they know how investors work in such circumstances. Similarly, taking the 2.3 billion CSG earlier than the planned date of 2024 would really be perceived as a breach of contract. This would not only mean paying longer but also more expensive. This does not mean that we must not find financing solutions for dependency, but what these two amendments propose is really a good misconception. As for reducing the maturity of the debt, in response to Boris Vallaud, it would break all the mechanics of looking for long-term investments and thus a better demand for investments in the market. We would lose all the added value of these two texts if we remained as we are today at a maturity of five or six years at the most. In either case, the debate is relevant, but adopting one of these proposals would lead to the loss of any chance of having the best terms for debt refinancing. Besides, I do not repeat this out of pure techno pleasure, but we must be aware that the best refinancing requires budgetary revenues to finance public social policies. I would point out that the repayment of the capital of the debt is not a budgetary burden, but only its interests are.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u187	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u188	Mr Minister, I want to return to the relationship between state finances and health insurance finances: in the first, it is public expenditure and, in the second, expenditure arising from a joint system between employees and employers since 1945. But here again you make a mixture between the two types of expenditure. The first time, it was at the time of the measures to respond to the yellow vest crisis, decided by the state in 2018. You were the Special Rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs when their funding was transferred to social security. Now it's part of the hospital debt you're transferring to. That's what's wrong! We are still a few here to have participated in the review of the Organic Law of 2010 on the management of the CADES,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u189	You were a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u190	... and I remember that the minister himself had declared that the social debt consists of the cumulative deficits of the social security agencies, among them mainly the branches of the general system and the Old Age Solidarity Fund: one point, that's all. And here you add other debts to those already managed by CADES, which is unacceptable. If you say that these 13 billion hospital debt have to be transferred to the state budget, we would be in favour of it, especially since it would increase the expenditure on dependency for this future fifth branch. We must have our feet on the ground and put things back in place in accordance with the Organic Law of 2010. Now you break it, and it's abnormal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u191	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u192	The urgency is indeed the big deadline of July for ACOSS. But the state could already deal with it. Nothing prevents him, for example, from making a cash advance to ACOSS. I understand that there is an urgent need to respect the July deadline, but admit that we could do otherwise and that you are making a political choice. As for the EUR 13 billion in hospital debt, I do not doubt that they could be transferred to CADES. But everyone has heard the promise that this debt will be taken over by the State and included in its budget. Moreover, the State's debt amounted to EUR 2400 billion: no one could believe that it would be put in trouble by adding an additional 136 billion. The State's signature is good – everyone is happy – so much so that it is currently borrowing at negative rates. Mr Minister, you mentioned just now the €52 billion social security deficit for 2020, rightly pointing out that this amount included the €8 billion allocated to ONDAM. Can we know the details of the remaining 44 billion? Finally, with regard to the EUR 40 billion deficit that you are planning for the next three years, I must admit that the assumptions on which you are relying leave me thinking. The impact assessment thus mentions a 2% increase in CSG and CRDS revenues over two years. This building seems pretty fragile to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u193	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u194	Minister, you did not answer my three questions. The first was the recovery of one-third of hospital debt, which we will discuss earlier in our review of the bill, and the scope of the recovery. You initially planned to limit it to public hospitals, before extending it, in response to the advice of the Council of State, to establishments participating in the public hospital service. However, you need to consider private clinics that contribute to this public service. There is a real problem here. In fact, the Constitutional Council will exercise its control on this point – in accordance with the Constitution with regard to the organic law, and because we will seize it with regard to the bill. You did not reply to us about the fact that the proposed scheme is not a debt recovery, but an annual debt payment, which is quite different. In the same way, we did not get any answer on the reasons that prompted you to change your mind about the recovery of EUR 10 billion in hospital debt, which would no longer be transferred to the state, as originally planned, but to CADES. We have still not understood the Government's response on this point. With regard to the second point, your thesis would be consistent if you decided to take back the 31 billion euros of deficits existing at the end of 2019, plus the 5 billion euros corresponding to the forecast deficit for 2020 – a total of 36 billion euros – and then to review each year whether this amount should be revised. That would be consistent. You recalled the decisions taken after the 2008 crisis, but I have never seen the government resume deficits beyond the current year, on a forecast basis, as you propose to do for fiscal years 2021 to 2023. You have still not presented your revenue and expenditure projections for these three years. There is something surreal about this, unless your goal is to stop mentioning this issue in the social security financing laws for 2021 and 2022. Perhaps your ambition is to ignore this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u195	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u196	You have indicated, minister, that you are not in favour of an amendment to the balance introduced by the organic bill, for many reasons. In particular, you mentioned the need to guarantee the credibility of debt refinancing; the fact that, despite everything, the creation of the dependency branch is initiated; the role of the conference of financiers, which will set out the principles and architecture of the future take-over; and the inclusion in the next PLFSS of provisions which will guarantee the additional funding necessary for the take-over of the fifth branch of social security. The President of the Republic announced yesterday, during his speech, that there would be no additional taxes. Is this principle applicable to the financing of dependency, or is it a promise with varying geometry depending on the subjects and the time at which the head of state expresses himself? You will also agree that it is not economic growth that will make it possible, neither in 2021 nor no doubt in 2022, to finance the additional expenses through a mechanical increase in contributions for work. So I ask you again – like Charles de Courson, I have the feeling that I will have to ask my questions several times to get answers: what is the government's philosophy regarding the balance to be achieved between debt, taxes or – other possible way – taking over dependency through compulsory individual insurance throughout life, from the moment of entry into the labour market? What is the Government's assessment of private insurance as a possible complement to dependency care?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u197	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u198	We must recall simple facts and be responsible. First of all, there is an urgent need for resources to fall sharply and spending will increase. We must therefore react quickly. Secondly, a tool exists: it is CADES, whose purpose is precisely to manage social debt. This tool must be used, which is all the more interesting because it is associated with clearly identified resources, i.e. CRDS revenues. The question then is who has to repay the debt, and when. I believe it is up to our generation to repay it in a few years: we must not leave such a burden to our children again, or even to our grandchildren. CADES also has an interest in effectively paying the debt, which is not necessarily the case with the State. The action of the CADES has thus made it possible to close the social security gap in a few years. If the amounts mentioned were transferred to the nebula of the State's debt, it was not certain that they would be repaid.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u199	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u200	I think our colleague's reasoning is very curious, because the state pays off its debt. He simply contracts new ones: there are, of course, substitutions of debts, but you cannot say that the State does not repay its loans. Returning to the Organic Law of 2010, I do not understand what right you impose on social security certain expenditures that are the responsibility of the State. I also do not quite understand your political approach: why create a fifth branch if you are not in a position to finance it? You explain that the finance conference will deal with this issue, but how can you both honour your past electoral promise and confess to the French that you do not have the money to do so, since you close the pipe with expenses that are partly state-owned?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u201	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u202	It is true that we did not get answers to all of our questions. The logic that prevails in this matter seems to be to say "there is a little more, I put it on you too".
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u203	Exactly! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u204	This is your approach: you prepare a gift package, a beautiful chichoumeille, by mixing a set of debts that you place on the back of social security. Of the 136 billion euros of debt that you want to bear by social security – a process that we are challenging –, some of the amounts transferred is even more illegitimate. These are, for example, the €3 billion resulting from the choice of non-compensation that was made during the vote on the last social security budget,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u205	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u206	[[Alain Bruneel and Caroline Fiat applaud]] ... or the debt of hospitals, which the state was supposed to take back. It was, in fact, more than time for the State to take over this debt, which, I would remind you, it has assumed only one third of the debt. The transfer of these debts to CADES is a break with the announcements that had been made, which is not defensible. The questions asked therefore seem to me to be quite relevant, unlike the answers given.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u207	I have before me an amendment, No 11, on the additional article after Article 1. Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u208	I propose that, by means of the Organic Law, the principle of full compensation by the State for the exemptions from social contributions which it has initiated be enshrined. You will certainly be sensitive to this amendment, Minister: in order to avoid that the episode we experienced during the adoption of the last law on the financing of social security happens again, it is necessary to enshrine this principle by organic law and not by ordinary law, in order to strengthen health democracy and better anticipate budgetary trajectories. Everyone will, I believe, be sensitive to this will. Furthermore, I do not understand why this amendment was considered inadmissible for consideration by the Special Committee, but admissible for consideration in a public meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u209	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u210	I understand your intention, dear colleague. Unfortunately, the adoption of your amendment would have the opposite effect to the one you are looking for: the part of the social security code that you propose to remove from the social security financing laws the monopoly of the measures that remove the compensation by the State of the contribution exemption measures which it decides. By abrogating it, we would increase the number of legislative vehicles that would violate the general principle of compensation and weaken social security revenues. As I understand that this is in no way your intention, I suggest that you withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u211	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u212	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u213	Do you withdraw the amendment, Mrs Bagarry?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u214	If you assure me that it is not legally viable, I will withdraw it. However, I would have liked you to propose drafting to protect the principle of full compensation for exemptions from social contributions by the organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u215	Mr Didier Martin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u216	In this major debate on social debt, the working Republic Group is very pleased to welcome the Government's proposal to create a new branch of social security to cover a real risk: the loss of autonomy, whether for the elderly or for persons with disabilities. In the very short term, it is a matter of providing concrete solutions to the problems posed by old age, to the people who work in their service and to their families. To draw all the consequences of the creation of this fifth branch, it is necessary to define the conditions for its financing. We will be discussing this issue in the near future. We must now have figures to open the future finance conference as sincerely as possible. Article 2 aims to adapt the social security financing laws by reducing the number of sub-objectives of ONDAM and by detailing the expenditure and projected expenditure on the self-sufficiency of older persons and persons with disabilities. These changes are absolutely necessary. The creation of an annex to the PLFSS will strengthen Parliament's information and allow for the qualification and quantification of self-government objectives. Article 2 is therefore absolutely necessary and is a corollary to our decision to create a new branch of social security. We are very happy and very proud of it. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u217	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u218	The issue is particularly important, as it requires means for this branch to function. The only assurance we have is €2.3 billion from 2024 onwards. Needs are urgent, but you don't answer them. They are, moreover, much more important, with the Libault report referring to an additional 4.5 to 9 billion per year. What do you expect from the financer's conference that you mentioned earlier, Mr. Minister, when we know that health insurance today finances €13 billion, the departmental councils €6 billion, the CNSA €2 billion, the state €2 billion, and that there are 7 billion left by residents and families? Where will the means come from? A tax increase? Will the departments be involved? We would like a clear answer from you. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The explanatory statement of the bill states that "a consultation will be held shortly to define the conditions for the financing in the shorter term of the measures to be decided in favour of the taking over of the loss of autonomy". Nice phrase and good commitment, but why don't you tell us where you want to go today? Why a simple announcement effect, instead of making sure that funding will be at the meeting? There's an emergency, minister, and we can't wait.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u219	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u220	It is a pity that our colleague has withdrawn his amendment, because it was asking a real question. Why are you taking charge of the €3.5 billion – if I am not mistaken – exemption from social security contributions in the amending finance law that we have begun to examine, when you did not do so at the time of the yellow vest crisis, which has been the subject of a great debate? What is the Government's strategy? Indeed, you are the first to have broken the "Simone Veil case law", on which all governments, regardless of their orientation, agreed to clarify the accounts between the State and social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u221	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u222	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u223	I have nothing against article 2, but is it useful? If I have read the opinion of the Council of State correctly, it would seem that it is not, because the provisions it provides are a matter of simple law, not organic law. Since organic laws are automatically transferred to the Constitutional Council for consideration, are you sure that all or part of this article 2 will not be cancelled?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u224	I'm sure of it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u225	In paragraph 3, for example, the change from five sub-objectives to three falls under the Social Security Financing Act, which makes it possible to create a new branch. This could also be done within the framework of the ordinary law before us. Can you explain why Article 2 should be included in an organic law?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u226	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u227	Without creating the fifth branch, devoted to autonomy, which was created by ordinary law and which, until now, I repeat, has been without means, we would like this creation to take place within the framework of the organic law. Indeed, after Mr Libault's hearing, it appears that this fifth risk, the risk of autonomy, is totally different from those already taken into account, because its scope is much wider, since it covers, for example, beyond care and dependence, habitat adaptation or displacement. Incorporating this risk into the ordinary law limits its scope and it seems to me much safer to engage in a global reflection on dependency by including its creation in the organic law, which would also allow us to get out of the current compartmentalization of self-government policies. It must always be borne in mind that, today, dependency is not managed by a single operator, but it involves the state, the CNSA and, as may be forgotten, the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u228	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u229	I would be afraid, Mrs Pires Beaune, in accepting your amendment, to put me on the back of Mr de Courson, who has just made a brilliant demonstration, recalling that paragraph 10 of the opinion of the Council of State, which I had read to you in a special committee, reaffirms that it is not the organic law to create this fifth branch. On the other hand, we rely on this organic law to create the conditions for this fifth branch, which we will propose in the ordinary law. You also question us about funding. In this connection, I would like to point out that Mr Libault, while he is aiming for funding in his report, also sets the deadline for 2024. Many of us have been involved in this work, and when we ask ourselves whether we should take 2021 or 2024 for the future, we are not talking about the same funding in fine. On the substance, moreover, no organizational provision, a fortiori constitutional, lists the risks or the various branches of social security. So what you're proposing would be a first. The other branches also do not fall within the organic framework, as specified in articles L. 200-1 and L. 200-2 of the Social Security Code, which we have amended in special committee. As for the decision of the Constitutional Council, which you quote in the summary statement of your amendment, it was not about the existence or the creation of a branch, but about its financial autonomy, in respect of the operations of "piping" – to remain in the same register as before. So you will not be surprised that, as in committee, I am sending an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u230	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u231	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u232	Mr Jean-Carles Grelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u233	Minister, you have heard the concerns and questions on most of the benches in this chamber, and you have tried to answer them by saying that you will still be here in September. I'm afraid that's not enough to completely reassure everyone. You need to address the concerns expressed about the finance conference, and you need to answer them now. Where are the room for manoeuvre of the health insurance, the CNSA, the departments, which can no longer do so, and the State, which will help and participate in the financing of autonomy? These are concrete issues on which the entire national representation needs to be informed. [[Smile]] And since you know, Mr.Minister, that I still wish you the best, I hope you will still be here in 2033, when you will have to report to the French on the repayment of social debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u234	I don't think so, with the life I lead!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u235	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u236	Mr President, the Libault report, which you are referring to, is already over a year old. In the meantime, there has been a health crisis, emergency demonstrations and strikes by EHPAD staff to demand additional resources. The report proposes the date of 2024, but Mr Libault himself, among other things, and all the agencies involved, would tell you that financing dependency is an issue that arises right away. As for the question of whether to create this new branch in the ordinary law or in the organic law, I maintain that it would be more secure to do so within the framework of the organic law. Above all, it would allow us to have an open vision of autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u237	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u238	Mrs Pires Beaune, on this legal point, I do not agree with you, but with the rapporteur. However, it does not go to the end. He acknowledges that there is no need for section 2 – and indeed, "due to the amendments made to sections L.O. 111-3 and L.O. 111-4 of the Social Security Code, the Council of State considers that this new branch could be established within the framework of an LFSS". In law, therefore, there is no need to include this creation in the organic law. The position of the Council of State is explained by the fact that, until the end of 2023, the mechanism provided for in the article is simply to create a branch with two of the five sub-objectives of ONDAM – the choice is not so broad: "the contribution of health insurance to the expenditure of institutions and services for persons with disabilities" and "the contribution of health insurance to the expenditure of institutions and services for the elderly". There is no need for this to resort to organic law. Minister, you might object to me that if the opinion of the Council of State is well read, my analysis may be true until the end of 2023, but it is no longer true from 2024, because you are planning a funding arrangement from that date. But every day is enough for him. We are talking about 2024 and, as you said, it is not bad if you are still there until June 2022. Beyond that, let's be careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u239	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u240	A small clarification because, in the end, we fully agree. I understand your intention, Mrs Pires Beaune, to secure the fifth branch in an organic law, but, as Mr de Courson also says, unfortunately the Constitution does not allow it. On the other hand, Mr de Courson, we need the organic law to create the conditions for this creation, in particular for the reference to the appendices of the PLFSS, which can only be modified – I am sorry – by the organic law. We also agree on another point: if funding is foreseen for 2024 in the Libault report, it was already clear in its reaction that we would not wait until 2024 to look into the matter. Even more so, in view of the elements you are referring to, it is up to us to create the conditions for funding to accompany this scheme as early as 2021. That is where the minister gave us an appointment earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u241	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u242	As the rapporteur has just said, we need the organic law to change the sub-objectives of ONDAM. That is what we have done for several years. Today, you will merge five sub-goals to get three, which will relate to city care, hospital care and care for the elderly and medico-social. I propose a fourth one, on which I think we can all find ourselves, because it would relate to future prevention expenditure. Prevention has been the poor parent of the social budget for many years – you run after it, you talk about it, but you never do it. Everyone could vote for my amendment, and Mr Isaac-Sibille would certainly be the first to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u244	This amendment has not been discussed in committee and I therefore have to comment on it personally. Mr Door, nothing today prevents us from going beyond the three sub-objectives proposed and there is no need to introduce the obligation to have four in the organic law. I would have been more seduced by your other amendment, which was unfortunately considered a horseman, because it proposed to print even more strongly the need for prevention. At this stage, however, since your proposal is dissociated from that contained in this other amendment, I shall express an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u246	Mr Door, I understand your willingness to sanctuarize prevention expenditure, but your amendment is very bureaucratic, because it would require that every direct or indirect health expenditure, closely or by far linked to prevention issues, be shared. For example, in the case of vaccination, should the act, the product, its preservation, the distribution by the dispatcher and the order form be included as a preventive measure? And where would they put the masks? In terms of prevention or intervention? What you propose will end up with a wet finger. In fact, it may take a month to ten of the Social Security Directorate's writings, while that will not change anything...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u247	We have the same problem with autonomy!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u248	...because we could vary the device upwards as well as downwards. For being rapporteur-general of the PLFSS, I know that this will not change anything in practice but will add a lot of bureaucracy. This may give the illusion of voting a useful measure, but I assure you that it will not have any consequences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u249	Like the fifth branch!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u250	I understand what your goal is. We will imagine mechanisms to achieve it, because we intend to do prevention. In fact, we will defend beautiful projects, no doubt consensual, in this field, among others within the framework of the Ségur de la santé. So it's a request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u251	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u252	I would like to thank both Mr Door, the rapporteur and the Minister. The idea of including a sub-ONDAM dedicated to prevention is interesting. I would remind you, however, that we have already voted under the PLF for an orange and a yellow budget on this subject. Financial services should therefore normally provide us this year with the prevention costs, on the one hand, of the local authorities on the other. This will already allow us to have a better vision of it. Should we go all the way to the sub-ONDAM? I don't know. I hear what the minister says, but I think we need to think about it and work on it for the next PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u253	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u254	If I have heard you correctly, Mr rapporteur and Mr Minister, you are not against everything about prevention. When I propose to make it a sub-objective of ONDAM, it is not by declining prevention into categories of measures, such as vaccination or others – I agree with many – but by setting a general objective, for example in percentage terms. Indeed, it is well known that the proportion of social security expenditure devoted to prevention in France is extremely low, at less than 2%, while the national targets should be 6 to 7%, as in Scandinavian countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u255	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u256	Minister, paragraph 3 of section L.O. 111-3 of the Social Security Code states that "the definition of the components of the sub-objectives is a governmental initiative". If we keep the government text as it stands and one day you or your successors want to add a fourth sub-objective, we will have to amend the organic law. Why, therefore, would the Door amendment not be adopted, after amending it to make it clear that the number of sub-objectives cannot exceed four? The current text provides that "the number of sub-objectives may not be less than five". Secondly, it is up to you whether or not to add a sub-objective, such as the one proposed by Mr Door on prevention, which is interesting because it is a subject that everyone has been talking about for forty years – and it is true that the proportion of prevention expenditure in the social protection system is, in memory, one of the weakest in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u257	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Annie Vidal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u258	As you have said, ladies and gentlemen, we must make choices of important political significance. Social security, which has been hit hard by the current crisis, is experiencing a major financial shock that leads to inevitable questions about the management of social debt. This is the whole point of our debate tonight. Although heavily affected by the fall in economic activity, social security must continue its tasks, i.e. to provide benefits to those who benefit from it. While the fiscal trajectory will certainly be severely affected, the deficit will be high, and ACOSS's stock is close to the authorized ceiling, the use of debt is inevitable. It seems much more relevant and secure to focus on debt over the long term rather than on the short term and to extend the life of CADES, as proposed in this organic bill. On the other hand, we must incorporate in our reflections high expectations of spending in the medical and social sector, as the epidemic has revealed greater needs than ever before. The draft organic law creates the conditions for the creation of a fifth branch, which lays the foundations for the organization of these expenses. Mr.Minister, you have told us what the funding arrangements would be as early as the PLFSS and in 2021, and I thank you for that. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and MODEM groups]] For all these reasons, the La République on the move will vote on this organic bill and I invite you, colleagues, to join our position.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u259	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u260	Mr Minister, at the beginning of the sitting, before you arrived, I spoke on behalf of the Republican Group to announce that we would abstain on this text. We are all in favour of establishing a branch devoted to dependency and loss of autonomy in the coming years. However, we are making some criticisms. First of all, when you put a principle in the marble, as you do with this sub-objective, you have to make provision for funding. However, as we have tried to say on several occasions, this is not the case today, unless the CSG's revenue was transferred to health insurance, which was to be used for the repayment of the debt. Then you transferred the debt of the hospitals, which, according to the President of the Republic's wishes, had to be borne by the State, to that of health insurance. This is reminiscent of the bad gesture that was yours last year during the yellow vest crisis. These reasons lead us to abstain rather than oppose the whole text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u261	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u262	The GDR Group's opinion on this organic bill did not change during this discussion, which was very short given the €136 billion involved. Perhaps it would have been better to allow a little more time for debate and reflection to examine this text in detail.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u263	The debate is not over!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u264	This has not been the case, in accordance with the procedure you have chosen, which consists of presenting us with a cheque book and asking us to initial it without knowing what is written on it. We are not prepared to trust you on this point or lend ourselves to advertising operations that may prove very disappointing upon arrival.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u265	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u266	Mr Minister, the Liberties and Territories Group fundamentally disagrees with you on Article 1. We were in favour of the transfer of the 31 plus 5 billion euros in the debt of the state by keeping the rest in the CADES. You can see that this creates confusion between the accounts of the State and those of social security, which had been the subject of so much criticism for thirty years. Similarly, with regard to exemptions, you return to the right path in the law of amending finance, but you went astray when you refused to compensate, for social security, for the measures of exemption from employers' social contributions taken by the State at the time of the case of yellow vests. There's a problem here. For these two reasons, we voted against Article 1. On the other hand, while we are in favour of creating a branch devoted to dependence, Article 2 is, to a large extent, unnecessary. Let us also await the decision of the Constitutional Council on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u267	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u268	The Socialist and Related Group will vote against this text. We say yes to a law on addiction, which we have been waiting for for a long time – more than thirteen years. However, we say no to a massive transfer of debts, amounting to €136 billion, to CADES. This is tantamount to depriving itself of CSG and CRDS revenues that would be very useful in financing hospitals on the one hand, and dependence on the other. I would like to add that in 2010, when the legislator decided to extend the life of the CADES – I was not yet a Member of Parliament – he had nevertheless taken care to include in the text that, as a derogation, debt transfers could "be accompanied by an increase in revenue based on wealth income and investment products". Today, you choose to use CSG and CRDS exclusively.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u269	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u270	The Group of the European People's Party will vote on this organic bill for two reasons. First of all, it is said that "governing is planning," but governing is also about dealing with crisis situations. The one that we have just passed requires a change of pace and the adoption of this organic bill, which could almost have been part of the emergency measures that we voted for some time ago, because the transfer of debt is a consequence of the emergency situation and the important decisions that the Government has had to take. On the other hand, we are in favour of Article 2 because the moment when the first stone is laid is always important. Of course, the building remains to be built, but parliamentarians can be proud to have contributed to it. Everyone has been talking about this important project for so long. Well, here we are! It is enshrined in the law. It is now up to us, colleagues, through the PLFSS and the future law on old age and autonomy, to ensure that the foundations of this building are solid for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u271	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u272	The MODEM Group voted in favour, taking on its responsibilities, for Article 1 in the face of urgency. Management must be a priority for us. We will be happy to vote on this text. Of course, the financial dimension is not the only one to be taken into account. Moreover, we will encounter difficulties not only in terms of finances, but also in terms of the organisation of the new branch, of governance – we will have to arbitrate between the state, the departments and the CNSA – of prevention or the attractiveness of the professions. But as Mrs. Firmin Le Bodo said, we are glad to have laid this first stone.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u273	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u274	Why will the FI Group vote against this organic bill? It is always the same story: we are emerging from a health crisis, there is an urgent need, so we are quick to act to respond to it. When we work in the emergency department, as I did, we have an emergency care cart. I don't see myself coming in front of a patient and saying, "It's okay, we've intubated you, we've got the facilitator. Well, it's just missing the pipe in the middle, but, promised, as soon as we get it back, we'll bring it to you, trust us! Such behaviour would put a person at risk. In previous PLFSS, I have often trusted Mrs Buzyn by playing the game and therefore by withdrawing several amendments – you can consult the archives. Today, I'm tired of trusting you. Last time, it was when you promised that a third of the hospital debt would be taken over by the state. And, bingo, six months later, we learn that this debt is actually taken over by CADES. Stop making fun of us: every time we try to trust you, six months later you put it upside down!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u275	It's a vulgarity!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u276	It's okay and it's coming...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u277	Come on, I didn't say any big words! No, I won't trust you anymore, be upset. That is why I will vote against this bill. Words fly away, writings stay. Develop arguments, put them out, I will vote according to what will be written black and white. But I will not vote for words in the air.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u278	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u279	The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group is also opposed to the extension of the CADES. Health insurance and social security as a whole could have benefited from a welcome breath, in order to finance the difficult times of the recession, but also to meet the needs of the hospital. How will we do it? As for the fifth branch, we are in favour of its creation – but in this three-stroke waltz, it is a shame to start with the last! Maybe we'll go back...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u280	I put the whole organic bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u281	The President of the National Assembly received from the Prime Minister communication of the decree of the President of the Republic dated 15 June 2020, calling the Parliament in extraordinary session as from 1 July 2020. The agenda for this special session will be published in the Official Journal of 16 June 2020.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-06-15-O1236.u282	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft ordinary law on social debt and autonomy. The meeting is adjourned.
