ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal (No 3221, 3387).
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u3	I apologize to Mrs Roselyne Bachelot, Minister of Culture, who, as you know, is in contact and therefore confined. It is therefore my pleasure and honour to present this text to you, which I have had the opportunity to prepare in my previous functions. In November 2017, during his speech in Ouagadougou, the President of the Republic expressed his willingness to allow conditions to be met for the restitution of African cultural property, in the framework of an in-depth partnership between France and the countries of the African continent. This bill marks the culmination of the long and significant work that has been undertaken since then. It is an important text that embodies a new ambition in our cultural relations with the African continent. It is not an act of repentance or reparation. It is intended to open a new chapter in the cultural link between France and Africa, based on new forms of cooperation and circulation of works. The project to restore twenty-six works from Béhanzin's treasure to the Republic of Benin and the sword attributed to El Hadj Omar Tall to the Republic of Senegal is part of a policy of cultural cooperation already undertaken with these two countries. This bill also takes place in a general context of reflection on the role and missions of museums in Europe and around the world. Felwine Sarr and Bénédicte Savoy's 2018 report to the President of the Republic provided an exciting opportunity for discussions on the history of collections, particularly from the African continent, and on the need to better explain their provenance to the public. The return by one State to another State of cultural property, or more generally of objects, is not unheard of. Among the most recent refunds are that of twenty-one Maori heads in New Zealand, by a law passed in 2010 at the initiative of Catherine Morin-Desailly, and that of thirty-two gold plates in China, pursuant to the 1970 UNESCO Convention to Combat Illicit Trafficking in Cultural Property, ratified by France in 1997. But with regard to the African continent, the act of restitution that we are about to achieve marks a decisive step by its symbolic and historical significance. The works and objects that we wish to return to the two countries that have requested them are of a quite exceptional nature: exceptional by the violent circumstances that have led to their appropriation, especially as spoils of war, exceptional because they embody the genius of their creators, of course, but also because history has made them symbols of a culture, of a people. Having become real places of memory, they are endowed with a unique value for all those who give them, beyond their aesthetic interest, a strong symbolic meaning. The sword and sheath attributed to El Hadj Omar Tall embody the exceptional adventure of the founding and extension of the empire toucouleur by this military and religious leader, who finally met with the French forces. Given to the Musée de l'Armée more than a century ago by General Louis Archinard, they are currently on display at the Musée des civilisations noirs in Dakar as part of a long-term loan agreement. They were handed over by Edward Philippe, then Prime Minister, on one of his trips to Senegal. As for the remarkable works gathered in the treasure of the kings of Abomey, they embodied the continuity and greatness of this multiseries dynasty when they were seized in 1892 by General Dodds during the fighting between King Béhanzin and the French troops. The loss of this royal treasure has gradually become, for the people of Benin, the symbol of lost independence. Conserved by various French museums, then, from its creation in 1999, by the Musée du Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac, these works aroused considerable emotion when they were presented in 2006 on Beninese soil as part of a temporary exhibition. That is why the Republic of Benin, in 2016, asked the French Republic to return the twenty-six works of the Royal Treasure of Abomey. By restoring these exceptional objects to Benin and Senegal, we will therefore help to give African youth...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u4	Why only young people?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u5	... access to major elements of his own heritage, in accordance with the objective defined by the President of the Republic. It is through legislation that we have to carry out these restitutions, because Benin and Senegal have not brought before any courts to challenge France's ownership of these objects. It is therefore up to the legislator, not the judge, to respond to their requests. The legislative path is necessary for us, moreover, because the restitution of objects in Benin and Senegal requires a derogation from the principle of the inalienability of public collections,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u6	Principle to be respected!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u7	... which is enshrined in the Heritage Code. This principle is, in fact, fundamental in the French conception of the museum, which entrusts our public institutions with building collections so that they are studied, preserved and presented to the public. Thus, a collection is considered a long-term collective work, which aims to transmit to future generations the heritage preserved in our country. To derogate from this principle of inalienability in a precisely identified case is by no means to call into question this fundamental principle, as the previous laws of the same type have shown. Indeed, the bill that I have before you is not general in nature: it applies only to the specific case of the set of objects that it specifically lists.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u8	It's better...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u9	That's very good!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u10	Thus, even if the objects concerned were viewed as takings of war, the vote on this bill will not have the effect of calling into question the legality of the property of our country over any property acquired in the context of an armed conflict, mode of acquisition today – of course – totally condemned.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u11	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u12	The issues surrounding these refunds, however, are not only legislative and legal. We know that they are at the heart of heated debates, that they feed many ethical, philosophical and political questions. So I want to clarify the spirit in which they were prepared. France agrees to return works to other States only if it undertakes to preserve their heritage vocation, i.e. continue to be preserved and presented to the public in places dedicated to this function. In the case of Benin and Senegal, these guarantees were given – I myself went to Benin to exchange with my counterpart and the Beninese authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u14	France is committed to supporting ambitious heritage initiatives with these two countries. Last year, a joint work programme was drawn up with Benin and our cultural partnership with Senegal was strengthened to ensure that these refunds are part of enhanced cooperation. Our country supports projects to develop museums...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u15	They're not coming out of the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u16	... and training actions to share the expertise of French heritage professionals, to establish genuine professional channels in this field and to increase cultural exchanges. The refunds we want to make are therefore part of a broader trade dynamic, which they will help to strengthen. Thus, this law does not in any way call into question the role played by French museums,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u17	Happy again!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u18	... in particular those who ensured the preservation of the objects concerned by the text, the Musée du Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac and the Musée de l'Armée. Both institutions studied these works, revealing their historical and aesthetic value. They also presented them to the public, here in France but also abroad, and in particular in the countries concerned by the refunds, in the context of loans. These museums and their teams have therefore responded to their primary mission, and this calls for our gratitude. Nor does the bill call into question the universalistic approach of museums that France has been defending and promoting for more than two hundred years. Our country will not give up this model, which is based on the absolute rejection of contempt for the culture of the other and on the conviction that culture also expresses what our human condition has of universal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u19	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u20	In a world fractured by identity positions of all kinds, we need more than ever universal museums to bring together works from all continents, from all epochs, to make dialogue between the cultures they bear witness to, with deep respect for differences. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill before you is not an act of repentance, nor a condemnation of the French cultural model.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u21	That's all he'd miss!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u22	[[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] It is an act of friendship and trust towards Benin and Senegal, countries to which we link a long history and plans for the future. The unanimous support that the bill received during its consideration by the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education a few days ago reflects the unity that must prevail over this matter. Far from dividing us, these acts of restitution must bring us together around the universal values that underpin our republic. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, IDU-I, LT and LR groups]] Tomorrow, our Beninese and Senegalese partners will be able to identify with symbolic objects of their past, which will form the basis of a dynamic cultural and heritage policy. This is what these refunds will allow and all the cultural and scientific exchanges that accompany them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u23	Mr Yannick Kerlogot, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u24	[[The speaker delivered a sentence in Breton]] First of all, allow me to give all my encouragement to the Minister of Culture and to repeat them to her in the language of Corentine. We are meeting tonight to consider a bill that is intended to bring together. Even if, as you will have noted, this text contains only two articles, it refers to France's desire to strengthen, renew, even reinvent, its bilateral relations with the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. To achieve this, she chose the cultural field. It seems essential to recall that this bill reflects the will of the President of the Republic expressed on 28 November 2017, during his speech at the University of Ouagadougou in front of several hundred Burkina Faso students, to address the youth – the African youth, of course, but also the youth of France, with its diversity and Afro-descendant component. In his address, the President called for "conditions for temporary or permanent restitution of African heritage in Africa". This is a strong, assumed and new political decision. Recall that a first request for restitution made by the Republic of Benin in 2016 had been refused by France. The bill that brings us together today embodies this new will towards two countries: the Republic of Benin, with the return of twenty-six objects of the kingdom of Dahomey, which form the treasure of Béhanzin and are currently preserved at Quai Branly; the Republic of Senegal, by the restitution of the so-called sabre of El Hadj Omar Tall, exhibited as part of a renewed loan to the Museum of Black Civilizations in Dakar. With this bill, the Government is therefore asking the legislator for permission to declassify works from public collections in order to return them to Benin and Senegal. Rewriting history is impossible, but making the choice to take on the darkest, the least glorious pages is part of this desire to rethink relations with each other, and in particular with countries that have been oppressed in the context of the asymmetry of the colonial context. The restitution must not be experienced exclusively as an act of reparation which is completely impossible. Rather, it must be thought of as a desire for dialogue, a desire to establish "a new relationship" with West Africa. Repentance, contrition do not allow rebound. However, by restoring these works, we continue to write history. This restitution desired by the President of the Republic is basically an intention, that of assuming a past, in order to be able to project itself, with full responsibility, alongside young people and future generations, in a twenty-first century whose stakes, placed in the history of humanity, have never been so global, so global. The love of a shared culture, the heritage accessible to as many as possible, remain appropriate fields to express this desire for rapprochement, the consolidation of bilateral relations and the relations of friendship between States. As rapporteur, I wanted to take the time to listen, by organising 20 hearings alongside Marion Lenne, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Michèle Victory, law enforcement rapporteur, and Pascal Bois, responsible for the text for the La République group on the move. These hearings allowed us to meet a large number of personalities and institutions from a wide range of points of view: ambassadors of France and ambassadors of the countries concerned in France, central administrations of culture and foreign affairs, museums, collectors and art dealers, founders of private museums in Africa, Beninese administration and curator in Senegal. Regrettably, however, he was unable to hear the art historian Bénédicte Savoy and the Senegalese academic Felwine Sarr, co-authors of the "Report on the restitution of African cultural heritage. Towards a new relational ethic", presented in November 2018 and came to fuel the reflection on the stakes of the planned refunds. Their views would have informed the rapporteurs. Indeed, while this report – which does not reflect the official position of the French Government – aroused expectations on the part of those who wished to obtain the restitution of pieces belonging to the French collections, it has also caused much agitation and concern to the European museums, which have felt challenged by the subjective vision of the Western museum it proposes, which is described pejoratively as "the museum of the other". But isn't the history of the other the history of the humanity to which we all belong? European museums, and in particular French, present works of all cultures, from a universalist perspective that seeks to showcase human genius, wherever it comes from. It is this universalist vision that deserves to be disseminated throughout the world. The purpose of this bill is to recognize the legitimate return of stolen property, "badly acquired" property, while recognizing the steps taken by museums, which spend ever more time identifying, historically and scientifically, the origin of the works. We need to ask ourselves again about the legitimacy of the conservation of certain cultural property, in other words, to engage in an exercise of heritage introspection. From the hearings we have conducted, we note that this approach is not Franco-French, but well shared by the western museums of the former colonial states. The International Council of Museums, with the voice of its President in France, Raoul-Duval, clearly confirmed this European dynamic during its hearing. No, there is no reason to believe that any work that came from Africa during the colonial period has necessarily been looted. On the other hand, the desire claimed by some to apply the reversal of the burden of proof, which would require each museum to prove that a preserved object has not been stolen, plundered or improperly acquired, is not understandable: it is technically impossible for all collections. This would also be tantamount to putting suspicion on the majority of preserved works of art. This is unjustified, as the Sarr-Savoy report itself confirms: "The modalities of the initial acquisition of these objects, which spans almost a century and a half, may have been very diverse: spoils of war, of course, thefts but also donations, bartering, purchases and direct orders to local artisans and artists. » While public opinion, in its majority, favours refunds, it is nevertheless not aware of the complex issues underlying this debate. Indeed, it is legitimate to believe that cultural property presented as plucked from its owners is returned to them. The reality is otherwise more complex and comes up against cultural history and legal obstacles, including that of the inalienability that cements French law. In fact, public collections are protected by this principle of inalienability, translated into law even if it is not enshrined in the Constitution. It is a principle that protects our public collections since the French Revolution, and even since the Edict of Moulins in 1566, which had already been acknowledgment that the king was only the custodian of the Crown's property.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u25	A long legal tradition!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u26	It should also be recalled that the restitution procedure presupposes that the requesting State has made a request to the French State in the context of a diplomatic procedure. The CRAN – the Council representative of the Black Associations of France – considered at the hearings itself, by the voice of its president, Mr Vedeux, that requests for restitution had to be the subject of a serious prior work of historiography on the part of the requesting countries. Let's say that today there are few of them – I am thinking of Ethiopia, Chad, Mali, Côte d'Ivoire and Madagascar – and the answer to the case by case is undoubtedly the best. However, we are likely to expect a growing number of requests in the coming years, and this first hand in Benin and Senegal obliges us, ladies and gentlemen, to succeed. It also obliges the requesting countries in order to succeed in the reception, in particular on behalf of a young person wishing to establish links with a heritage which is soon to be accessible. In the course of our hearings, the question was raised as to why a law of circumstance and not a framework law. It is legitimate to ask the question, knowing that there may be other requests in the future. The legislator, at the initiative of the Senate, had tried to create a procedure that would have declassified, after advice from a scientific commission, without going through the law. However, at the outset, this commission declared itself incompetent to declassify goods that would always have their artistic, historical or scientific interest. Perhaps the law was not explicit enough. This national scientific commission for collections, established in 2002 by the French Museums Act, was consolidated in 2010, but it did not meet at all, the quorum being difficult to reach, and the draft law on the acceleration and simplification of public action envisages its abolition. However, while the reflection on the establishment of a procedure governed by a framework law should not be ruled out, it presupposes the definition of precise criteria, and this is the whole difficulty of the exercise. The forthcoming refunds, on a case-by-case basis, should enable us to shed light on the definition of these criteria: neither too strict to deprive us of certain symbolic refunds, nor too broad to compromise the diplomatic and cultural scope of these refunds. In any case, restitutions must enable us to strengthen our cultural diplomacy towards African countries, by helping them to showcase their heritage thanks to the French expertise in museums, which is recognized worldwide. The arrangements for cooperation with Benin on the Béhanzin treasure are exemplary in this regard. The president and vice-president of the museum and heritage cooperation committee between France and Benin, whom we have received at the hearing, have demonstrated to us their willingness to rely on the French museum and heritage expertise in the context of the ambitious investment project "Benin développée", in which is the construction of the museum of the epic of the Amazons and the Kings of Dahomey on the current site of the royal palaces, a museum intended to welcome the twenty-six pieces of the restitution that is occupied. We must travel together on the ridge line linking the legitimate demands of African states and the universalistic dimension of Western museums. It is in this perspective that I will quote historian Pascal Ory, taken up by Emmanuel Pierrat in his book, Do we have to return works of art to Africa? "Undoubtedly the least radical solution – the least absurd – passes through the principle of compromise. For example, some symbolic renditions would be of good humanist policy, but without any system: the darkness or ambiguity of the acquisition conditions would suffice to circumscribe the cases. A second principle could be similar to a kind of memory co-responsibility. What is to be encouraged, from a universalist perspective, is the circulation of works, against the confinement of each culture in its specificity – obviously largely imaginary: it is called cultural nationalism (Is Leonardo da Vinci the property of Italy?), or even racism. The game will be won on the day when, to see some masterpieces of Roman antiquity or the Gothic Middle Ages, it will be necessary to go to a museum in sub-Saharan Africa. » [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and GDR groups]] As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will find ourselves in the widest possible vote, as did the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Education and Culture, which unanimously adopted this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u27	Mrs Michèle Victory, implementing rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u28	To be a rapporteur for the implementation of a law on the restitution of cultural objects is to verify that the regulations enabling the implementation of this law are promulgated in a timely manner. Therefore, from the date of entry into force of the two articles of this law that we are willing, I believe, to vote today, the twenty-six works of the Kingdom of Abomey will cease to be part of the national collections. The administrative authority will then have one year to organize the material restitution of these works to the Republic of Benin. For the so-called sabre of El Hadj Omar Tall, already exhibited at the Museum of Black Civilizations in Dakar and whose loan agreement has been renewed for five years, it will also have to cease to be part of the national collections, from the date of entry into force of this text, within the same period. We see no difficulty here. It is an act of symbolic restitution of diplomatic significance. One can of course imagine the various problems to be addressed by the French, Beninese and Senegalese authorities to a lesser extent, as well as the teams of the museums concerned. Concerns have been expressed, although almost no one contests the legitimacy of these requests. So let me remind you of a few things. The future museum of Abomey, scheduled for completion in 2023, is part of a large investment project, "Benin développement", which includes, in addition to museum facilities, the rehabilitation and construction of heritage and museum infrastructure, combined with the restructuring of the African Heritage School in Porto Novo. It is therefore through Ouidah, a city symbol of slavery, that these works should pass through before reaching their final destination. Financially supported by the Agence française de développement, AFD, and the agency Expertise France, the French agency for international technical cooperation, on administrative and legal issues, supported by the Ministère de la culture and the Quai Branly teams, this vast project is part of a cultural cooperation that everyone wishes to balance. The regulation also allows us to produce an assessment report within three years on the legal, economic, financial, social and environmental impact and consequences of this law. The budgetary impacts appear to be low, and we will be able to look at the consequences of this text for the operators and players of the art market in the near future. These refunds should not have major administrative consequences. Indeed, the work already done by the head of African collections at the Quai Branly museum has allowed for a finely documented approach. Questions remain on possible social impacts that this text has highlighted. Beyond knowing whether the objects we are talking about will have regained their original land under the conditions and deadlines laid down in the text, we cannot ignore the exciting stakes of all kinds raised by this return. Together with the rapporteur, we have heard the symbolic importance of returning these objects, which we probably have the greatest difficulty in understanding the mediation function and the originality of the life cycle. The debates which it can provoke, in a context marked by the questioning on the consequences of colonization and slavery and on the traces which they have left behind, are topical. We have also heard the enthusiastic and bitter expectations of the authorities of Benin and Senegal; We have heard it as a request for gestures of friendship, proof of confidence indispensable to build a new equitable relationship between France and Africa, based on a demand for truth and a bilateral will to calm the conflicts of memory and to foster a demanding dialogue. It is for us to participate, modestly, but with conviction, in a gesture by which we recognize the legitimacy of these demands and the role they will have in the re-appropriation by African youth of its fragmented history, where the diaspora of objects and people has intertwined in time and space. This gesture must be part of the building of a bridge between the past and the future, between those who have been deprived of too much of their heritage and those who, for good or bad reasons, have entrusted themselves with the task of enriching national collections. "African heritage cannot be a prisoner of our European museums. Beyond the unexpected remarks made by the President of the Republic in November 2017 there are obviously many questions about their scope and how France intends to support this work of memory and reconstruction that so many Africans want to see realized. However, we also know that this return journey will not be without pitfalls, because these objects, whatever the conditions for their arrival in our national museums, have acquired, with the time and care brought by our curators, by art lovers, another feature. The principle of inalienability, whose objective, both protective and universalistic, complicates today, as much as it protects, the process of restitution, remains the undisputed framework of the permanence of our collections. As diverse and complex as is and was the history of our relations with the African continent, nothing seems to alter the feeling of fascination and astonishment in the face of the beauty of these objects, whose artistic and spiritual power constantly renews the museum and ethnographic interest. It is a confrontation that asks us about the history of these often forced trips and prompts us to rethink the circulation of these heritages. It is therefore not a question of trying to balance a colonial past by a hijacked way of disguised another form of interference, by making our European museums an unsurpassable model, by denying the expertise of African conservatives and by placing on Senegal and Benin doubts as to their ability and willingness to value these restitutions, to build through them a path of access to their own culture for the benefit of local populations. [[Applause on the SOC, GDR and LaREM benches]] The temptation not to be able to imagine these works outside the frame of the Quai Branly Museum is great, but the demand for accompaniment, support and sharing is established; It should participate, without excessive naivety, in the promise of a new ethic of exchange.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u29	Without excessive naivety!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u30	In the general debate, Mr Pascal Bois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u31	The Minister and the rapporteur have described very well and in their respective comments the purpose of this bill and all the singularity that this sword and these twenty-six regalia represent. I won't go back in detail. We can only be satisfied with their return to Senegal and Benin – I intentionally use the term "return". On behalf of the Republic on the move, I congratulate the rapporteur for the in-depth work he has done; I associate Marion Lenne, draftsman of the opinion. The numerous hearings, as enriching as each other, have allowed us to meet almost all the actors involved. They have also enabled us to better understand the extent of the problems related to this complex subject, which confronts several elements: political voluntarism and the entrenchment behind the inalienability of public collections; the requirement of truth and repentance where humility requires us not to rewrite history and accept all the enigmas of a work; Condescendence about future conservation conditions and confidence in ongoing and future museum cooperation. We have also become aware of the scope of the principles of universalism of the museums of France and of the circulation of works, but also of the heritage capture. 90% of African heritage is found in private collections and mainly in museums in Europe. This situation literally prevents the people of Africa – a fortiori their youth – from accessing works from their own cultures and civilizations; We must have it in mind when we look at this bill. That is what the President of the Republic has understood. The return of these works reflects one of the commitments made during his speech in Ouagadougou in 2017, which expressed three strong messages. First of all, that of the hand stretched out to Africa as a sign of friendship. It is not just an act of cultural diplomacy; On the contrary, it offers the first role for cultural cooperation to initiate new relations of exchanges between Africa and France and, to use the formula of the President of the Republic, "a past, which must pass". This invites us to create a new imagination, far from the memories of our conflicts and traumas, which would make us turn into the tragedy of ignoring each other. It is also the reparation of injustice. We return items removed from their country of origin, in negative circumstances, during the colonial past of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u32	No anachronism!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u33	There's no anachronism. These objects, as we have seen from the hearings, are imbued with a strong symbolic, spiritual and historical charge. Both in Senegal and Benin, they have been received or are eagerly expected, in a peaceful and consensual climate. Most of all, they're going to get back to their real lives of totemic objects! In Benin, the twenty-six regalia will be the centrepieces of Abomey's future museum complex, designed in close cooperation with the French Development Agency, which will support local tourism development. The sabre of El Hadj Omar Tall is already an iconic object of the Museum of Black Civilizations in Dakar. Finally, it is an act of confidence in the direction of African youth, which is the strength of this continent where 70 per cent of the population is under thirty years of age and faces the multiple challenges of the contemporary world. France will be at the rendezvous, in particular to help it re-appropriate its history and regain access to its heritage. It is also the object of ambitious cooperation not only for the design or development of exhibition venues, but also to train curators in the capacity to ensure the preservation and safety of collections in the long term. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] In conclusion, we should commit France to a new policy of circulation of works, because universal cultural property has no borders as it is the common heritage of humanity. With this restitution, we are demonstrating this will, and it is for all these reasons that I call on you, following the unanimous vote in committee, to do the same in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u34	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u35	With this bill, we are talking about the history of two countries and a heritage that binds us to them. In 1892, General Alfred Amédée Dodds led the Dahomey campaign and, during the capture of the city of Abomey in present-day Benin, seized the treasure of Béhanzin. These are works in the palace of the eleventh king of Dahomey, Behanzin Kondo. While the latter set fire to his palace following the capture of the city by the French on 17 November 1892, General Dodds, a French-Senegal Métis at the head of the French troops, recovered these works. Returning to France, he bequeathed them to the Musée d'ethnographie du Trocadéro; Today they are preserved at the Musée du Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac. Following the official request for the return of the Republic of Benin, the President of the Republic, on the proposal of the Musée du Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac and the Ministry of Culture, announced that France would proceed with this restitution. This request, limited to a specific list of works, is part of Benin's desire to better understand its history. It is also part of a museum project promoted by the Republic of Benin for which the French Development Agency has granted a loan of €12 million. France intends to participate in this project, within the framework of the Franco-Beninian work programme signed on 16 December 2019 in Cotonou. Another story: in April 1893, Colonel Louis Archinard recovered during the fighting in Bandiagara against Ahmadou Tall, a sword attributed to his father, El Hadj Omar Tall. In 1909, General Archinard donated it to the Army Museum. In July 2019, the President of the Republic of Senegal, Macky Sall, asked the President of the French Republic to return this sword, exhibited at the Museum of Black Civilizations in Dakar since its opening in December 2018. Two months later, the Prime Minister responded favourably to this request. It is now necessary to translate this restitution into an output from national collections. These restitutions of works are part of a dialogue and cultural cooperation with Benin and Senegal. The Republican Group supports this initiative in its majority, from the moment that guarantees are made. We are indeed strongly committed to the main principles of inalienability, imprescriptibility and non-seizibility of collections.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u37	But it is primarily because this bill proposes a simple departure from these principles, not questioning them, that it is acceptable to us. On the one hand, these refunds are limited to certain works and must remain so; they respond to specific requests from countries. On the other hand, they are carried out with guarantees of good conservation which it would be appropriate to recall. Amendments have been proposed to this effect, and they will need to be adopted. It is also important to be able to give these countries the museum material they are sorely lacking in order to trace their history and culture. You have to listen to the way it is formulated. It should be noted that the French museums have retained these works, not in a desire for national appropriation of these treasures of humanity, but with a universalistic dimension which consisted of preserving this world heritage and transmitting it to the generations that come. It is in our museums that the dialogue between cultures can take place and we must be careful not to associate with the works that are associated with it the mark of a claim that would be primarily nationalist. It should not be a question of ownership by one country rather than another, but of sharing our cultural experiences. The definitive refund is, moreover, only one of the possible aspects. Cultural property must also be able to travel, be subject to deposits, temporary refunds or loans.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u39	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The particular history of these cultural objects, which I told in the first part of my speech, must also invite us to better trace the path of the works to our museums. It is important to distinguish whether they come from legal or illegal acquisitions, a distinction on which our museums do a remarkable documentary work that I would like to acknowledge in conclusion of my remarks.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u40	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u41	[[Applause on all benches]] I wish to express a very special thought for Marielle de Sarnez, who is very attached to this text and this theme and whose place is on these benches. We give him all our support and affection. The bill we are considering is primarily symbolic; We must rejoice at this. But this text is also such as to allow a much broader and more fundamental reflection on the re-foundation of our relations with the countries to which our colonial past binds us. Yet, four years ago, such refunds were deemed impossible. On this issue, the hesitations and pretexts of the previous government have given way to a political courage that should be welcomed. It was indeed the President of the Republic who initiated a new doctrine during his speech in Ouagadougou on 28 November 2017; He stated that "African heritage must be developed in Paris, but also in Dakar, Lagos, Cotonou [...] within five years, the conditions will be met for temporary or definitive refunds of African heritage in Africa. »
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u42	The famous Macron doctrine!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u43	It therefore took an unprecedented political courage...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u44	Let's not be afraid of words!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u45	... to make a radical turn, promising significant refunds. For this reason, we support the passage of this bill – but, you understand, we want to go further to make the return movement broader and more ambitious. Indeed, this text, which is an immediate, ad hoc and partial response, continues the logic of the analysis of requests on a case-by-case basis, which is not a viable solution for achieving the objectives set. In this sense, this bill does not meet the ambition expressed, and which I share, by the President of the Republic. For the Group of the Democratic Movement and Related Democrats, the adoption of this draft is essential to create a dynamic, but it must be prolonged by a more comprehensive reflection on the rules surrounding restitution. This could take the form of a parliamentary mission or report, which would involve the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education; we could reflect on the articulation of the principle of inalienability of public museum collections and study the transformation of the provisions of article L. 451-7 of the Heritage Code, which prevents the decommissioning of works from a legacy or gift, without going through an ad hoc law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u46	This is a general principle of law!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u47	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Same movements]] The ultimate objective would be to propose a framework law on refunds, in order to give them a clear, legible, fluid and independent procedure of political hazards and the goodwill of decision-makers. Please: this is only a goal!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u48	We are opposed to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u49	Let us listen to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen: he alone has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u50	Let me express this opinion, if you will. This work will have to strike a balance between the requirement to preserve the heritage present in French museums and the more frequent and less complex restitutions to be implemented. It would also be an opportunity to address key issues that the bill is not intended to address as they stand: enhancing access to African museums,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u51	The masks are falling!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u52	... the training of their curators and restorers of works of art, the facilitation of loans, the circulation and the dialogue from museum to museum, the deployment, finally, of the expertise of the agency France-Muséums throughout the world. Thus, with a framework law and an ambitious cooperation strategy, we could go beyond the notion of restitution to lay the foundations for a sincere and fair partnership policy. The resulting doctrine would be a clear break with the troubled chapter of Françafrique and would be a fair contribution by France to the re-appropriation by African peoples of their history and heritage. In this new axis of African-French relations, we could devote forcefully and without ulterior thinking to the right to heritage, advocated by the Council of Europe at the Faro Convention in 2005, fifteen years ago. Let us remember that soon half of the African population will be under the age of twenty: the access of African youth to the culture, creativity and spirituality that have nourished the history of the continent is a major challenge, which we must help to address. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the indispensable follow-up of returned works, because we see the risks of losing track of these works in countries subject to forms of political instability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u53	When the works are gone, they are gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group, as well as on some benches of the LaREM groups and Actir ens]] The initiative we are about to approve is crucial in many respects, but it cannot remain at the draft stage. That is why we call for its full dimension to be quickly given.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u55	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u56	[[Applause on many benches]] I welcome Jean-François Mbaye, who obtained this text to be examined in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. First of all, I have a thought for the Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs – which I think follows our discussions. We look forward to finding her, and I wish her a speedy recovery. I remember that the debates on previous restitutions, in 2002 with the remains of Saartjie Baartman, and in 2010 with Maori heads, had been lively; I welcome the balanced and constructive exchanges we have had this time, both in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Of course, some current events and other attempts at media agitation can sometimes make up for the chronicle, but time has obviously done its work, and I think we can collectively salute the remarkable work of Mrs Bénédicte Savoy and Mr Felwine Sarr,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u57	There's a lot to say about this report!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u58	... as well as the diplomatic and museum officials concerned. Like many actors, I remain very attached to the principle of the inalienability of public collections and I find that, for these works, things have been very healthy. From the formal and targeted request for restitution made by the Republic of Benin and that of Senegal, to the commitments of good conservation and exposure to the public, to the ambitions of enhanced cultural cooperation with these two countries, I welcome the fact that the refunds envisaged are part of a renewal of France's cultural policy in Africa. For these reasons, the Socialist and related group will of course vote in favour of this bill and welcome the return to the Republic of Benin of the treasure of Béhanzin, composed of twenty-six objects of the kingdom of Dahomey, currently preserved at the Museum of Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac, and to the Republic of Senegal, the so-called sabre of El Hadj Omar Tall, exhibited as part of a renewed loan to the Museum of Black Civilizations in Dakar. [[Applause on the SOC benches, as well as on a few benches of the GDR and LaREM groups]] We will also pay close attention to the implementation report, for which my colleague Michèle Victory is responsible, which will assess the legal, economic, financial, social and environmental consequences of the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u59	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u60	Mr Minister, we are delighted to meet you, as we left at the end of a committee meeting which left some traces, slight for some, deeper for others – I am thinking of my colleague Raphaël Gérard who was there earlier. "To speak openly about restitution is to speak of justice, of rebalancing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u61	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u62	... of recognition, restoration and reparation, but above all, it is opening the way to the establishment of new cultural relations based on a rethought relational ethic. For example, Felwine Sarr and Bénédicte Savoy address the issue of the restitution of African cultural heritage in their report on the subject, submitted to the President of the Republic in November 2018. Two years later, we have come together to take a new step in our relations with the countries of Africa. This bill will allow us to return cultural property to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal. More specifically, it is a matter of bringing out of the national collections twenty-six works given to the French State by General Dodds and preserved at the Musée du Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac, which constitute what is customary to call the treasure of Béhanzin; On the other hand, it is a question of restoring the sword and its sheath attributed to El Hadj Omar Tall and donated by General Louis Archinard to the national collections. Presented symbolically by Edward Philippe, then Prime Minister, to President Macky Sall, exposed at the Museum of Black Civilizations in Dakar, no one can deny the highly symbolic value of this sword, both nationally and religiously, because of the status of Muslim and military leader of El Hadj Omar Tall. This symbolism has caused a lot of ink to flow: some and some have protested against its restitution, often those who denounced its symbolism of the time, that of jihad, often the same, which, in France, contest the slightest debate about statues and their power of representation. This is proof that the representations of one day are always questionable and questionable, which is not abnormal. This bill marks an important step, both in our relations with these countries and in the work of reconciliation on French territory and in our conception of cultural property. Indeed, as my colleagues have pointed out, it is a matter of allowing a derogation from our legislation, which guarantees the cultural property of the public collections of the museums of France a triple protection – inalienability, imprescriptibility and impermissibility – which prohibits their permanent export from the territory. Yet, without denying the inalienable and universal character of the works in national collections, addressing the issue of restitution is a legitimate concern. It is not new, but despite attempts to open up for several decades, all requests have resulted in negative responses. Today, it must be stressed, the opportunity is finally given to re-examine the context of the acquisition of certain works that make the richness of our collections and museums. The investigation and expertise of the latter allow us to determine that some property was actually looted and stolen during a wartime episode of colonization, and were therefore misunderstood in our current conceptions. The vast majority of African heritage lies outside the African continent: therefore, returning the right to heritage to African youth is neither denying the past nor dispossessing itself, but looking at the past in front of them. Access to restitution claims is not a question of the past, but a contribution to the construction of a more peaceful future, including in France. With respect to conservation and exposure conditions, the bill raised concerns. In response, I would like to point out that the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal have the means of conservation or are preparing the arrival of these cultural objects, in order to ensure that these fragile works are preserved in the best possible conditions. Furthermore, as the draftsman for an opinion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs pointed out, requests for restitution are rigorously dealt with through careful scientific and historical expertise. On the other hand, as the report by Felwine Sarr and Bénédicte Savoy suggests, we must ask ourselves the question of an evolution of the law in order to anticipate future refunds. We were able to discuss the possibility of a framework law in our committee work. At the moment, there are not many requests, but it seems to us appropriate to consider the creation of a restitution procedure, conditional on the definition of a charter and the conclusion of bilateral cooperation agreements, which may prove to be more flexible. Thus, beyond derogation from the principle of inalienability, the two academics recommend other measures, such as the establishment of a Joint Committee of Experts of the two signatory countries, to examine requests for restitution or arrangements for long-term cultural and scientific cooperation. [[Applause on a few benches of the LT and LaREM groups]] Colleagues, we are in a crucial context for our future relations with the African continent. The recent openness to the principle of restitution allows us to rethink our cultural exchanges with other countries. To restore is to restore an ethical and just breath to our cultural cooperation, to understand the sensitivities and symbolic importance of cultural property. Therefore, restitution does not call into question the universality of works: on the contrary, it gives new impetus to the circulation of works and recognizes the importance of dialogue between cultures.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u63	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u64	Every country, every people has the right to know their history. Every country, every people must be able to trace what makes their culture, so that it can be passed on to future generations. France, in its desire to build healthy relations with the Republics of Benin and Senegal, has responded favourably to their request to enrich the collections of their national museums in order to transmit to their people their heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and LR groups]] Their request is legitimate and we do not wish to oppose it. However, the IDU and independent group stresses the importance of the accuracy of the requests made. Indeed, we are committed to the inalienability of French collections; We would also like to thank our colleagues in the Republicans Group for having included in the body of the bill that the bill is an exception to this principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u66	All right, Mr. Brindeau!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u67	France has so far kept these works in accordance with its great universalist tradition, which promotes dialogue between cultures. Their good conservation, to which we are all attentive, has been ensured. This very important point deserves to be stressed for our friends, to whom we are going to pass on these precious goods. The sabre of El Hadj Omar Tall, already exhibited at the Museum of Black Civilizations in Dakar since 2019, is preserved in good conditions and allows visitors to better understand the history of this opponent of colonization, and therefore the history of colonization.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u68	Property refunds in Benin are in line with the Franco-Beninian work programme signed on 16 December 2019 in Cotonou. France will also participate in the development of a new museum, through funding from the Agence française de développement. Thus, Benin will be able to better trace its history and transmit its culture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u69	The IDU and independent group will vote for this bill, as the goods concerned are circumscribed and such restitution is not intended to be generalized.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u71	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] We approach this discussion by remaining open to further possible improvements to this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u72	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u73	The problem of the restitution of works of art cannot be solved by the Prince, because it is global. It concerns both Africa and Europe, particularly with the demands of Greece, and the Middle East, with the demands of Iraq, and many others.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u74	Africa wants to re-approve its history and make culture one of the pillars of its development. Some African countries have therefore decided to demand the restitution of works they believe to be their property. If one can consider that the plundering of African works by the colonial powers of the time is an indisputable fact, one must not forget, here as elsewhere in the world, the existence of other endogenous vectors of dissemination of works of art, such as changes in beliefs, representations of living and other spiritual and artistic evolutions. This is how the history of humanity goes: the legality of the war spoils of 1892 strikes us today, rightly. In this historical perspective, we must reflect the abuses of colonial troops and the practice of slavery of King Behanzin. Repentance cannot help solve the problem of restitution of works of art. It is about building new relations with the peoples of the world, particularly those of Africa, based on mutual respect for our collective intelligences.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u75	Museum universality presupposes access to the most diverse heritage collections from all over the world to fulfil its function of cultural awakening. This relationship to the universality of access to works of art presupposes reciprocity. Thus, it is true that it is much easier to contemplate the jewels of African art in western capitals than in African museums – the circulation of works often forgets their original territory. One can also wonder about the merits of loans of works of art to recipients who claim ownership of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u76	He said that France was the saver of African art, thanks to the repatriation of collections in Hexagon; But at the time of the plundering of the twenty-six statuettes of Abomey, the kingdom of Dahomey was just as capable of this preservation. While it is true that the African continent, with the exception of a few strong places, lacks the means and infrastructure to host major exhibitions, this is in no way a definitive impediment to the return of African art to its home. I have studied the report on the situation of African objects held in France by Bénédicte Savoy, the Collège de France, and Felwine Sarr, Saint-Louis University of Senegal. They advocate a very bold programme of restitution of cultural property. However, the reality tells us that most African countries do not want this magnitude to be restored; the Congo, for example, does not make any request to that effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u77	Should we return? The intention is laudable and well justified. However, there are legal questions about the inalienability of national collections, the legitimacy of applications for ownership and, finally, the reservation of refunds to public institutions. Private collections, which hold 90% of the works concerned, are excluded. For example, one of King Béhanzin's thrones, exposed in Benin, is the property of a private Franco-Beninian foundation that is very favourable to the restitution process. One might imagine that, combining words with deeds, this private foundation would donate this exceptional heritage to the Beninese state.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u78	The haste you have shown in this dossier has disturbed many African states, which see the opening of a box of Pandora which, like you, they do not understand all the dimensions. Behind this act of contrition is a new communication operation by the Government, rather than a broad reflection on relations between France and African States.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u79	The restoration of the sword and the twenty-six statuettes will in no way alleviate the neoliberal predation of African economies, nor the French sufficiency and condescendence towards their countries. On the day of the announcement of the restitutions of works of art, the President of the French Republic split his remarks inadmissible to the President of Burkina Faso. The latter had left the room after an inappropriate remark by the French Head of State,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u80	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u81	...who preferred to ironize by saying that the president of Burkina Faso had gone to repair the air conditioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u82	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u83	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If there is something that President Macron must restore to the people of Africa and to our people, it is dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u84	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u85	The objects we are talking about tonight are smugglers of memory, they bear witness to the past of the African continent, but also to our past, with its shadows. Although necessary, this bill is not just an act of reparation; It must inaugurate rich cooperation, because it is equal to equal, between our States. By handing over these goods to the Republic of Senegal and the Republic of Benin, France is doing more than a symbolic gesture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u86	In 1892 the troops of the French army took the royal city of Abomey on the territory of Dahomey, in the present Benin. In the fire of King Behanzin's palace, several objects were looted by French troops under the orders of General Dodds. He will then donate coins belonging to Béhanzin's treasure to the Trocadéro ethnological museum. The sword and its sheath belonging to El Hadj Omar Tall were recovered in 1893, following the fall of the Toucouleur empire, in a military battle between the French troops and his son Ahmadou Tall. Stored at the Musée de l'Armée in Paris, these objects have already been symbolically handed over to President Macky Sall in November 2019. They are exhibited at the Musée des civilisations noirs de Dakar, in the form of a five-year loan, pending the transfer of property from France to Senegal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u87	Thus, we can speak of reparation, because the goods we refer to were looted during colonial wars. I hope above all that this restitution will be a prelude to the end of Françafrique, in favour of relations based on the collaboration of each country. The return of these objects must be part of a desire for partnership and enhanced cooperation between sovereign countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u88	Requests for the return of cultural property by Senegal and Benin are legitimate. All people must have access to their historical heritage. Through this approach, there is no question of rewriting history, nor of denying the colonial past of France, evoked this evening in a beautiful documentary aired by France 2, but of recognizing that these goods, acquired in a military context, must be handed over to their country of origin. These objects have an immense memory range; This memory is a wealth for our two continents.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u89	The Musée du Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac and the Musée de l'Armée have carried out an extraordinary effort to preserve and study these objects; I salute their valuable contribution. The knowledge and expertise acquired will be essential for the Republic of Senegal and the Republic of Benin to preserve and expose these assets. These refunds can allow us to go further in collaboration, by transmitting our expertise in museumography and conservation. Without this exchange of knowledge, these restitutions would not be complete. Let us take far our ambition as a universal museum, which you mentioned, Minister Delegate. However, one can worry about Abomey's new museum, which struggles to get out of the ground. This project, supported by the Agence française de développement and meeting international conservation standards, is important for Beninese people. It is part of a broader programme, entitled "Benin Revealed", which aims to increase the visibility of the country's tourism assets. It must therefore be completed quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u90	The visibility of cultural works and objects must be ensured, whether on the African continent or on other continents, in the context of temporary exhibitions and exchanges between international museums. The protection and exposure of works to all are important conditions for the delivery of these goods. Indeed, the treasure of Behanzin and the sword and sheath of El Hadj Omar Tall have a universal character; They belong to the World Heritage of Humanity. It is because these properties retain their historical significance that they cannot be declassified from the French collections and that we must now pass a bill of circumstance, derogating from the principle of inalienability.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u91	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The issue of the circulation of cultural works is of paramount importance, and I regret that no bill has been able to better regulate the private art market, most of which is completely beyond the reach of the general public. Despite this reservation, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will of course vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u92	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u93	Let me make an opening statement. First of all, I want to think about Roselyne Bachelot, Minister of Culture, who unfortunately cannot be here tonight. We have reviewed this bill with her in committee, and we know that she is committed to it. I also have a thought for the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, our colleague and friend Marielle de Sarnez; I also wish him a speedy recovery. Finally, I thank Deputy Minister Franck Riester, who worked for many months on the subject and was in Benin on 16 December 2019 to strengthen cultural cooperation.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u94	This text embodies a strong commitment of the President of the Republic, formulated in Burkina-Faso in November 2017, to the students of the University of Ouagadougou: to restore cultural works belonging to the heritage of Africa. It is part of a reshaping of relations with our African partners. Today, 90% of Africa's heritage is outside its continent. It is therefore appropriate to provide African youth with access to their own heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u95	The new partnership aims to bring the law into line with a well-considered restitution policy. From this perspective, the draft law tends to allow a limited derogation from the essential principle of inalienability, applicable to French public collections, in order to allow these objects to be removed from national collections in the context of a transfer of ownership.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u96	To the Republic of Benin will be restored the twenty-six works of the Royal Treasure of Abomey preserved by the Museum of Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac following their donation to the national collections by General Alfred Dodds. To the Republic of Senegal will be returned a sword, called El Hadj Omar Tall, with its sheath. It was preserved by the Army Museum, following a donation by General Louis Archinard. It is a matter of enabling African peoples to have easier access to their heritage art at home and to share it with humanity. This approach is fully part of a new form of cooperation, based on co-construction with our African counterparts. Cultural cooperation is, of course, one of the pillars. It takes shape in Benin as in Senegal through the formation of heritage cooperation projects, with the support of French agencies and support for museum policy. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes this new impetus, which shows France's clear will to establish a renewed friendship with the countries of Africa. The announcement of this bill, along the lines of the report on the restitution of the African cultural heritage, sparked sometimes very lively debates about what France's heritage policy should be. I want to reiterate here that this bill does not challenge the universalist vocation of French museums, nor the principle of the inalienability of national collections. I would like to recall the excellence of those who work for the preservation of works. It is not a question of emptying our museums, but it is necessary to become aware of the memorial and symbolic stakes of the restitution of works often acquired during the wars of colonization. Accept legitimate requests for reconnection with a heritage; It is a right of African peoples. What matters here, beyond the historical value and intrinsic quality of the works, is the present and the new relationship that our country intends to weave with Africa. The restitution of cultural objects must therefore be integrated into extensive heritage and museum cooperation. The African partners of France, which have many conservatives trained in France, also measure the universal value acquired by these returned goods and the need to have the means to ensure their optimal conservation, in particular through a generation of trained professionals. These refunds are also intended to be part of the strategy for the economic and tourist development of some of the countries that France wishes to support. The evolution of our heritage relationship with many African States is part of a more global context, where they are increasingly turning to other foreign partners to benefit from their expertise; I am thinking in particular of China, which recently built the iconic Museum of Black Civilization in Senegal. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens and LaREM groups]] The Group of the European People's Party supports this bill, which fully contributes to the strengthening of diplomatic and cultural relations between France, Benin and Senegal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u97	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u98	I had the privilege, along with some of our colleagues, to accompany the President of the Republic to Ouagadougou in November 2017; We had the great satisfaction of hearing him announce this desire to return works of art to Africa, in the context of a broader discourse aimed at redefining our ties with this continent. This part is just a piece of a puzzle that we still have trouble reconstructing. There are tensions, incomprehensions, guilt poorly digested; There is also friendship, solidarity, fruitful partnerships, culture. I am struck, every time I go to Africa, by the knowledge of the French culture of Africans, whether they are from the south or the north of the Sahara, like Moroccans. Conversely, we do not know African culture. Yet Picasso was inspired by African culture to produce his own works!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u99	[[Smile]] He was a communist, that's why!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u100	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Since it is more a matter of redefining our ties with Africa, we will one day have to review our visa policies and go back to this unincorporated decision to increase university fees for African students.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u101	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u102	I do not underestimate the importance of the bill we are debating tonight. Restitution is a symbol, many have said, but it is more than that: it is a work of justice, for Africans and for Afrodescendants in Europe. Of course, when such a decision is made, questions arise. What to return? When was there spoliation? For the twenty-six Beninese works, there is no doubt: their capture is a fact of war, since Colonel Dodds, the expeditionary chief of the French Corps, reported them with his mission report. Of course, they were saved from the flames; But Beninese soldiers died to defend these works of the kingdom of Dahomey. In the future, research will need to be able to work to establish spoliations. I do not forget, beside the facts of war, those works which colonial officials took to Paris, but also to Dakar, to the French Institute of Black Africa. Perhaps one day the question of refunds between African countries will arise. Many of our colleagues have also raised the question of circulation, and more broadly of cultural cooperation, which must be established. Like others, I would like to reassure those who would like to set conditions, fearing that Benin does not have the means to preserve these works. Be careful with condescendency! The capital of Benin is home to the African Heritage School, which trains professionals. The former Portuguese fort of Ouidah will host the works returned in less than a year. Finally, there will be the future museum of Abomey, their final destination, the fruit of a cooperation with the Agence française de développement – cooperation that goes far beyond the creation of a museum, since it aims to strengthen, over the long term, the capacities, to support the training of staff and to strengthen museum cooperation. Yes, the circulation of works and cooperation is an issue for tomorrow; When we give back to Africans what is due to them, we can continue to build these beautiful cooperations, so that these African works, of course, but which belong to the world heritage, will be the occasion for a real work of memory on colonization, therefore on our common history. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u103	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u104	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u105	According to article 89, paragraph 6, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, "in the event of the inadmissibility of a bill or an amendment, the deputy who is the author of it may request a written explanation of the inadmissibility". I have tabled an amendment calling for the return to Algeria of the Burn of Emir Abdelkader, who is currently in the reserves of the Army Museum. Article 40 of the Constitution was opposed to me to declare my amendment inadmissible; This article prohibits parliamentarians from proposing "either a reduction in public resources, or the creation or aggravation of a public office", but amendments reducing a public resource may propose in exchange for an increase in another resource. I would like to know how the return of this material to Algeria would contravene this provision and how to secure such an amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u106	That is a question you are asking the chairman of the Finance Committee. He will take care to answer you.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u107	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u108	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u109	The bill we are considering today is the translation of Emmanuel Macron's presidential promise during his visit to Burkina Faso in November 2017. In this famous Ouagadougou speech, he said he wanted "in five years time the conditions for temporary or definitive restitution of African heritage in Africa". This declaration attracted the approval of many young people present on that day, as did that of diasporas. I have a special thought for all those who work for the good relations between France and Africa, and especially between France and Benin, a country that I had the pleasure of discovering a few months ago with the association Cumea-Na'ndé, based in my constituency in Val-d'Oise. This bill is the result of the desire to strengthen the links between France and Benin, with a desire to recognize our common past. Returning these assets was a necessity, as their appropriation by France was based on a morally reprehensible act, a spoliation; In this case, they constituted a spoil of war. To talk openly about restitution is to turn a page in our common history. It is to give impetus to new relations between two friendly countries, based on a new relational ethic thanks to the universal mediator of culture. The issues raised by restitution are therefore far from being limited to legal aspects relating to legitimate ownership. This restitution is based on three other pillars: history and our colonial past; the need for each people to have their memory objects at the service of a shared culture or a spiritual dimension; the nature and quality of relations between peoples and nations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is the sense of deep reflection that we must collectively engage in in a calm and responsible manner. I welcome the fulfilment of the Head of State's promise to open the way for a new relationship between France and African countries. I hope that other texts of the same nature concerning other countries will soon be presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u110	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u111	France is preparing, with this article 1, to return several cultural objects to Benin. This text is rather consensus-based today; However, despite the reference to the principle of inalienability, questions arise in the text on the initiative of my colleague Constance Le Grip. This bill makes a few teeth gnashing; It must not create a workout effect, the first signs of which could be seen tonight. Let us keep in mind that Greece regularly asks for the return of the marble friezes of the Parthenon, currently exhibited at the British Museum in London. We are aware that these works have been acquired in particular situations; But, very often, if they had not been taken by our country, they would no longer exist today, even though they are very well preserved in our museums. The Group of the Republicans does not, as a matter of principle, oppose the return of these goods, but we wish to recall our deep commitment to the protective principle of French museum collections. Such refunds must be made on a case-by-case basis and in the context of cultural cooperation with the country concerned, in order to ensure in particular their safety and proper maintenance. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] The Republican Group will vote for the article in the majority, although everyone's freedom to vote remains, of course, complete.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u112	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u113	The return of these cultural property in Benin and Senegal leads me to share some questions with you. They are first of all legal, and relate to the violation of the principle of inalienability of assets. What belongs to the national collections belongs to the French, to all the French. You are creating dangerous exceptions here, which make legal principles unnecessary. If we accept the departure of these goods, why not extend this measure to others? Why not return the bridge of the Gard to the Romans, the obelisk of the Place de la Concorde to the Egyptians?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u114	What a caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u115	[[Exclaims]] Belgium asked us for a picture of Rubens, and we refused. However, he had been taken in the Napoleonic conquests. Why is there a hierarchy? Why some countries and not others? There was no robbery; They're spoils of war, you said. But these spoils no longer exist since the Hague Convention in 1899. It was done before! We have to put things back in their place, though. This restitution is part of a context where community demands seem to win the debate on repentance and I fear that this bill will fuel their ideological victory. I am not sure that a good message is sent to the indigenists who debunk the statues of Jean-Baptiste Colbert by telling them, at the bottom, that it is enough to claim to obtain. Finally, from a security point of view, the conditions for receiving works in these sub-Saharan African countries do not seem optimal. The area is sensitive, so will we not know the same thing as in Palmyra, where the statues were destroyed by the Islamic State? Do we have any guarantees in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u116	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u117	[[Mr. M-Jid El Guerrab applauds]] Since his speech in Ouagadougou in 2017, Emmanuel Macron has shown a desire to return African works of art from colonization and preserved in French museums. On several occasions, France has made every effort to ensure that these restitution operations are a success. This bill is a new example; I welcome him and should be encouraged to do so. Without repentance and resuscitating the past, however, I wish to say that I regret the scope of this text, which is limited to two countries: Benin and Senegal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u118	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u119	In view of the ambition expressed by the President of the Republic, France could respond to a much greater number of requests. Official requests such as those from governments and museums in Côte d'Ivoire, Chad or Nigeria have not been successful. Madagascar, which has officially requested the return of Queen Ranavalona III's crown, is still waiting for its restitution to take place. I believe that a text dedicated to this issue should be drawn up without delay. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group; MM. Bruno Fuchs and Jean-François Mbaye also applaud]] This bill is therefore moving in the right direction, but it is now necessary to increase dialogue with the countries concerned in order to go much further in the restitution and circulation of works.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u120	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u121	With this amendment, I wish to supplement Article 1 with the following sentence: "This process is carried out in consideration of the optimal arrangements for receiving, preserving and presenting to the public the relevant works offered by the Republic of Benin. In our work in committee, I had already tried, you certainly remember, Mr. Rapporteur, to introduce the idea, dear to museums and to all French stakeholders, that the restitution process was taking place precisely because the arrangements for reception, preservation and presentation were, or would be, particularly good in the two countries concerned by the bill. It seems to me important to recognize that a great deal of work has been done, to which the Ministry of Culture of the French Republic and the French museums have taken and continue to take their full part. This is also the case of the Agence française de développement with regard to the future museum in Benin. It is therefore appropriate to stipulate in the draft law that this process takes place, since it is considered that the optimal conditions are offered by the two recipient countries, in this case the Republic of Benin with regard to article 1. Far from me the idea of introducing any conditionality or adopting a condescending attitude – which I had been opposed to in committee. It is simply a matter of acknowledgment that a great deal of work has been done on both sides, particularly by the Republic of Benin, so that the twenty-six returned works are welcomed in the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u124	Dear colleague, we have indeed had the opportunity to initiate this reflection in committee. I understand that the amendment that you are presenting to us this evening has been slightly rewritten since then. In commission, you were talking about "optimal conditions," while today you prefer the terms "optimal modalities." I listened with great attention to Mrs Anthoine's speech, which itself confirmed that, for Benin, the accompanying conditions are satisfactory, thanks to the action of the French State, of Expertise France, or of AFD. The sums have been recalled, notably by Mrs Anthoine, we are acting with both loans and grants. In addition, thanks in particular to AFD, whose representatives we have heard, we have collected very precise information on the Beninese project, which is both tourist, economic and cultural. Benin's request was therefore very clearly formulated. France responded with a willingness to accompany it. I would add that the ANPT – the National Agency for the Promotion of Heritage and the Development of Tourism in Benin – is a pledge, a way of demonstrating that the reception of works has been thought out and anticipated. I remind you that the site of Abomey Palace extends over forty-seven hectares and that, if there is a rehabilitation to be carried out, a museum is expected by the end of 2023. Thanks to the funding and the nature of the project itself, there is a clear desire to welcome these objects beyond their museum function. It is important to recall this: the museum function is clearly assumed in Benin's project, in the same way as the economic function or the desire to restore their full place to artists and artisans, especially those perpetuating the tradition of the arts of the court of the kingdom of Abomey. There is a genuine desire to support these artists and artisans, but also to build a project in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, and to give more attention to women, in particular through the development of handicrafts. In the end, and as you yourself say in your amendment, Mrs Le Grip, Benin has provided guarantees. I would understand this legitimate concern to obtain guarantees for new projects, but in this case these are two specific projects in Benin and Senegal. So we adopt a logic of trust, albeit vigilant. Adding to the text the terms "optimal reception arrangements", when we already know the reception conditions and we have already heard your request to include in the text a reminder of the principle of inalienability, would therefore be contradictory to our willingness to show vigilant confidence. Nor would I like such a reference to be interpreted by the countries concerned as a form of interference. I think trust is mutual. The President of Benin has clearly defined his project. France is positioned to accompany him and we have all the information. Let's rest on that trust. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u125	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u126	I am very much in line with what the rapporteur has just said: there is complete confidence with Benin. As I said earlier, I visited the country in late 2019 at the invitation of my counterpart. The teams of the Ministry of Culture have also been heavily involved in discussions with their Beninese counterparts, and a delegation has visited the area. The works will be welcomed at the Museum of Abomey and, until its opening, in the Museum of Fort Ouidah. With all the guarantees put together, we must send a great sign of confidence to our Beninese friends. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u127	But no, it is very well this amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u128	Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u129	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u130	The late Burkina Faso Head of State Thomas Sankara said: "We must teach the child to be first and foremost a social being, that is, a man and not an individual. Through this draft law on the restitution of cultural property in Benin and Senegal, this is what it is all about: to train and educate African youth, as the President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron committed himself to it before the students of the University of Ouagadougou in November 2017. That was also the aim of the amendments which I wanted to table, but which were declared inadmissible. But the burn of Emir Abdelkader today takes dust from the reserves of the army museum, like many other objects and cultural works that would deserve a better exhibition. The publicity which would result from its restitution, as was the case last July with the skulls of the Algerian resistors, would serve two purposes. The first is to make better known to the generations on both shores of the Mediterranean the exceptional personality of Emir Abdelkader, who was both a hero of the resistance and decolonization of Algeria during the battles of Macta, Sig and Sidi-Brahim, and elevated to the dignity of the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour by France, especially for its protection of the Christians of Syria. And the second is to open a serene dialogue with our Algerian partners on the memorial issue, while the President of the Republic declared again last Friday to the Walls that traumas are still not resolved. Let us therefore open the debate peacefully, especially since our discussions in committee have shown a shared will in this area. I would therefore like to thank the Deputy Minister for his answer to this question from Abdelkader's Burn.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u131	With this intervention, my colleague, we have moved a little away from the subject of the amendment. The floor is now open to Ms. Fiona Lazaar.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u132	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister- Delegate and the rapporteur for the clarification they have given on the arrangements for receiving the works: they will be received in good conditions and this is an essential element for the confidence we must have in our Senegalese and Beninese partners. On the other hand, I would like to stress that we are going to vote on an historic text this evening. I am therefore dismayed to see that amalgams are made on certain benches of the Chamber with the questions of communitarianism and indigenism. Especially when we vote on a text of such magnitude, I believe that it is a mistake to present things in this way. This text will allow, by way of derogation from the principle of inalienation of French public collections, to return important works to the Republic of Benin and the Republic of Senegal. This is a first step towards reshaping our cultural partnership with these two countries and in a way to take on a part of our history that can be described as dark. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, DEM and EDS groups]] Its adoption will therefore represent, I believe, an essential step forward in entering into a new relationship with African countries, which will be absolutely fundamental partners in meeting the challenges of the twenty-first century.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u133	Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u134	I also wished to commend the quality of the work of the Minister- Delegate and the rapporteur, Mr Yannick Kerlogot. And with your presence, Mr President, we can say that the Côtes-d'Armors are widely represented tonight for this historic moment. For the dialogue of cultures, so far we said that it was necessary both the Corrèze and the Zambezi; Now we can say that we have the Côtes-d'Armor and the Comoros, or the Côtes-d'Armor and El Salvador!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u135	[[Smile]] What about the Oise? There are four of us tonight!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u136	In essence, this text allows us to discuss our gaze on what is and should be a museum. And through restitution, it is the question of transmission, especially to African youth, which arises, as well as that of reconciliation with a complex history and which is still alive for a number of our fellow citizens and atrodescendants. The bill is also an opportunity, as has been said, to trust these countries. I believe that in 2020 the question of trust must be asked. But we cannot assess the reception conditions of Benin and Senegal only on the basis of our own standards. It's obvious that we have demands, but it's important to know that the look at the function and identity of a museum in Africa is very different from ours. A few days ago, we celebrated the death of Jacques Chirac, who had had the audacity and courage to defend an innovative museum project, which did not correspond exactly with the idea that such a place could be made in the 18th or 19th century. I will be very obsessive and rigorous so that the reception conditions of these countries are the best possible. But to the extent that African youths also tell us that they feel a deep need for identity, we need to change the way we design a museum in African territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u137	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u138	Above all, I would not like to appear to suspect condescending Ms. Le Grip, with whom I am pleased to co-chair the Heritage Study Group. However, there is a need to trust professionals, in this case African professionals. Both in universities and in institutions with little heritage in Africa, they have real competence. If we gave them more space in international discussions, we would probably have a slightly less inaccurate view of their ability to preserve the collections that return to the African continent after having left it a long time ago. Moreover, this text is proof of the proper functioning of our institutions. The founding speech delivered by the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou provided the diplomatic framework for a political will to work with African countries to restore their heritage. The scientists then did their research and information work within the collections proposed for restitution; States have made requests; Parliament has to decide on specific cases, in order to get some collections out of the regime of public statehood. There has been talk of framework legislation, here or there, in previous interventions, but our system works well: it is better not to touch it. I hear Mr M'jid El Guerrab's wish to make refunds to other countries. I would be the first to support the enlargement of the system, but, once again, let us do things in order, let us leave the institutions in their respective place, each in its role, and we will achieve results similar to that of today.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u139	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u140	Mr. El Guerrab asked me about Abdelkader's burn: it was a gift made in 1897 to the army museum by the grandson of the Emir, Khaled bin al-Hachemi, an officer of the French army, an officer of the Legion of Honour in 1915. His entry into the national collections was therefore made under any conditions other than that of the objects mentioned in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u141	Thank you for that precision!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u142	I would add that Abd el-Kader's burn has not yet been the subject of any discussion between the French and Algerian authorities. Thank you, however, for asking me about this.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u143	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before me by the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u144	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u145	First of all, I would like to welcome our three rapporteurs, including the rapporteur, for their work, because this text has been discussed jointly by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Cultural Affairs. I sincerely thank them for that. This has already been said on several occasions: cultural diplomacy is of paramount importance for relations between our country and its partners, whether to strengthen them or to enrich them when they are well established, as is the case between France and the Republic of Senegal. Earlier, when I heard one of our colleagues talking about a community-based, indigenist request, I thought that she had not read the text. Senegal and France are bound by a common history, as well as by their strong cooperation from the Republic to the Republic: it is not President Le Fur who will contradict me on this point. Section 2 of the bill will therefore complete, with the consent of national representation, a gesture that symbolizes the agreement between our two countries. I welcome the return to law of this sword on Senegalese soil, where it is already exposed to the sight of those for whom it is a physical manifestation of their history. History and culture must be common to both populations; It is the beams of the bridge that connects individuals. As I said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: culture must not be the prerogative of one state or another, because it is it that makes it possible to build bridges between our societies, which allows individuals to understand each other despite their differences. It deserves to be shared. By allowing the circulation of these works, we help to strengthen a vision of international relations dear to France.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u146	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u147	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For these reasons and for those which have been put forward by my colleagues, I invite you to adopt unanimously not only this article, but the whole text that honours the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u148	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u149	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u150	In the light of the examination of Article 2, which organizes the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Senegal, I once again wanted to make it clear on behalf of the Republican Group that we will not object, as a matter of principle, to this process. However, as the experts have done, it is possible to question the merits of the very choice of the term "restitution", in terms of deepening the dialogue between cultures and cultural, museum and scientific cooperation – in terms of knowledge of the history of art – between two countries, two continents. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] By the excellent intervention of Emmanuelle Anthoine, by the two amendments which we have adopted in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, we simply wanted to point out that the collections of French public museums are subject to the main principles which underpin the public domain: inalienability, imprescriptibility and inmissibility. It is with complete responsibility, with complete clarity, with confidence, which does not exclude vigilance in any way, that we have wished to lend our support to this bill, insofar as it intends to derogate from these principles in a limited and targeted manner, by authorizing the movement and restitution of cultural objects, the list of which is duly annexed.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u151	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u152	Thank you, Minister, for responding to the idea that I had put forward in committee, which was intended to open the debate. [[Mr. Hervé Berville applauds]] Moreover, since we come to the sword of El Hadj Omar Tall, I attended his surrender: it was an extraordinary moment. The other parliamentarians who were there with the former Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, can testify to this. We put back an old relic probably hard to pull out of its sheath; But in the room, the members of all the Senegalese Sufi fraternities looked at this sword as if it were invested with a power that today, in this Chamber, we are absolutely incapable of imagining. [["Ah! » on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] These acts, which, for us, represent an amendment or at most a bill, have an extraordinary symbolic force. Everyone must be aware of this. Again, what we are doing here, in terms of symbols, is very strong. I thank the Government, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic for wanting this vital gesture.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u153	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u154	It raises the same question as Amendment No 7, concerning this time Article 2 and the restitution of cultural property to the Republic of Senegal. I hope that this article can be enriched by the following sentence: "This process is carried out in consideration of the optimal arrangements for the reception, preservation and presentation to the public of the relevant works offered by the Republic of Senegal. In this case, the only work concerned is already, as part of a long-term loan, at the Musée des civilisations noirs de Dakar, which is a magnificent place and where this sword is beautifully highlighted.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u155	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u156	The sabre of El Hadj Omar Tall is preserved in Dakar in a window lent by France, in a room where it is the only object exposed: these are optimal reception modalities. Therefore, I can only plead once again for a relationship of trust, and invite you to withdraw your amendment; If not, the opinion of the committee will be unfavourable. Let's trust it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u157	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u158	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u159	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u160	Mrs Le Grip, the rapporteur said: let us trust. In November 2019, the French and Senegalese ministers of culture signed a cooperation agreement, one of which focused precisely on the preservation of works and cultural mediation. Like Amendment No 7 on Benin, it is satisfactory: we must walk in confidence, hand in hand with our African partners, in order to ensure the full implementation of this beautiful and ambitious text which I hope we will adopt this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u161	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u162	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and LaREM groups]] The Museum of Black Civilization is a superb place, once again, and our relations with Senegal are old, imprinted with friendship and trust. I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u163	Mrs Marion Lenne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u164	Let me start by thinking about two women: Minister Roselyne Bachelot, who, like any contact, is in isolation, and Mrs Marielle de Sarnez, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who we miss so much. I welcome the Government's willingness, as a result of the speech delivered by the President of the Republic in Ouagadougou, to bring about a renewal in France's relationship with Africa, the birthplace of humanity. In this new relationship, culture occupies a central place and, thanks to the restitution or circulation of works, youth both African and French or, more broadly, European and, finally, every citizen of the world has access to the history, common heritage and all the magic, spirituality and creativity that African cultural goods bring to him. During our discussions, the issue of Franco-African cultural cooperation was discussed. Our approach is partnership, equal to equal and co-built. Once the works have been restored, it will no longer be up to us to interfere in the museum and heritage policies of our partners. On the other hand, there are many requests for cooperation based on the recognition of French expertise. Our external action will have to remain at hand, particularly through support and training. La francophonie can also be the support of cooperation, in order to make this space an intercontinental springboard for the circulation of works – if, of course, its Member States agree. The choice of legislative vehicle was also mentioned. We're still open. The use of an emergency law, respecting both the primary will of States to proceed on a case-by-case basis and the historical realities and subtleties of countries, will be assessed. The aim is to refine our thinking before any general principles for the handing over of works can be put in place by means of a framework law. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will vote for this text allowing the return of cultural property to their country of origin, respectively Benin and Senegal.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u165	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u166	At this stage of our debate and as this very interesting discussion ends, I would like to reiterate that, in its overwhelming majority, the Republicans will vote on the bill, in a spirit of responsibility and in the light of the message of trust and strong commitment to an old friendship that we want to give this evening a blatant demonstration to our African partners. I do not hide that, as Maxime Minot and Emmanuelle Anthoine have pointed out, questions, concerns and perplexities are expressed in many circles, as well as within the group Les Républicains, where there is a fear of a driving effect, a precedent under which, once the text has been voted on by the French Parliament, requests for "restitution" could eventually multiply. We have therefore placed great emphasis on the derogatory nature of the two sections of this bill in relation to the principles that govern French museum collections. It seems important to us to have succeeded in obtaining the inclusion in Article 1 and Article 2 of the principle of the inalienability of French public collections. We would also like to reiterate our commitment to a case-by-case approach, and therefore our rejection of any legislative or political approach in the form of a framework law or other model that goes beyond that. We hope that the legislator, representing the sovereign people, will continue to have control over the timetable and choose the countries with which to develop restitution processes. It's very important to us. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I would remind you that the musée du Quai Branly-Jacques Chirac, which President Jacques Chirac wanted and which has been alluded to on numerous occasions this evening, has as its slogan "the dialogue of cultures", to which we are very attached. The president of the museum, who himself wondered about the concept of restitution, wished to make it clear that not all the objects acquired during the colonial period had been acquired by force.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u167	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u168	The Action Together Group welcomes this bill, which responds to commitments made by the President of the Republic since 2017. This is not the first text to be voted on. So let's not be afraid of the air call, or the closing of the Quai Branly Museum. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] Today, it is a very beautiful message that we send to our African partners, with whom we must continue the dialogue and cultural cooperation that will be a true marker of our future relations. The Action Together group will therefore, of course, vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u169	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u170	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LR groups]] [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] The debate we have just had on the restitution of cultural property in Benin and Senegal seems to take a majority, to which Members of the GDR Group will join, and we welcome it, but we cannot be satisfied with it: beyond this law, we must make lasting reparation for the damage that France has inflicted on these countries. The Communist deputies will therefore not be content with Prince Macron who, from the top of his pedestal,...
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u171	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u172	... agreed in November 2017, in Ouagadougou, to return some spoliated works in favour of the French colonization of Dahomey and the Toucouleur empire. This broader reflection should focus on international cooperation around cultural and artistic property, which has dual value: national and historical value for the countries that have been deprived of it and universal value for all others. These values must protect them doubly. First, because these goods are objects that symbolize the invasion of one continent by another, in search of resources, profits and power, ignorant and massacring the inhabitants, destroying the local political systems and solidarity, and ending by drawing borders in contempt of the peoples, which we still pay the heavy toll. The preamble to Resolution 42-7, adopted in 1987, by the United Nations General Assembly, clearly underlines "the importance to countries of the return of cultural goods of fundamental spiritual and cultural value to them, so that they may constitute collections representative of their cultural heritage". But these goods also deserve to be protected because such objects also belong to the common universal heritage and bear witness to the history of all men and their art. As such, they must have a status that requires, beyond proper restitution, that the latter be accompanied by international cooperation commensurate with that burden. In order to meet these demands, it will obviously be possible for UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, to carry out this mission in full, only through unwavering multilateralism. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville and Mr. Hervé Berville applaud]] International arbitration in restitution requests, fight for better security of property or strengthening partnerships for museum cooperation and conservation: there is no shortage of topics.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u173	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u174	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you understand, the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this text. It is important to get rid of the very strong idea that our museums would be an unsurpassable model. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no The African peoples are, of course, fully able to take charge of their own heritage. We cannot hold the speech we have had this evening on trust and the need to create new conditions and new relations and, at the same time, to set old conditions by telling the peoples concerned how to do it. It doesn't work together. Tonight, everyone was happy to hear about this renewed trust. It would be a shame not to continue in this direction and not to allow these objects, which represent something very strong for those who have been robbed of them, to regain their freedom with those to whom they belong. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We have no reason to fear that there will be other demands – and of course there must be. Nor does anyone fear that we will empty our European museums, which are full of beautiful things. There is absolutely room, throughout the universe, for all our riches. There will, of course, be other demands, and that is entirely legitimate. We'll have to hear them.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u175	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u176	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LT groups]] This courageous and successful initiative demonstrates that our cultural cooperation with African countries is solid and that the guarantees are there. Our discussions have also shown that this approach can take place in appeasement, and that is what we must remember. The Liberties and Territories Group will support Mr El Guerrab's request for Abdelkader's burn and vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u177	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u178	[[Same movements]] After passing through the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Cultural Affairs, you have understood that the Group of the European People's Party and allied Democrats will vote for this text, which we consider to be a symbolic text and which is a first step towards something that needs to be expanded. [[Vif applause on the benches of MODEM, LaREM, Agir ens and LT groups]] We want Parliament to take a step that aims to create the conditions and parameters for a universal surrender under a framework law, not an exceptional law, and that would perhaps allow us to redefine our relationship with our former colonies and, more broadly, France's relationship with Africa. Today we are at a moment in history when we need to reshape our partnership relations. Let us therefore take advantage of this law and this reflection to give substance to this ambition.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u179	As no other speaker has asked for the floor, we are done with explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u180	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u181	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 55 Number of votes cast 49 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 49 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u182	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this unanimous vote. As you can see, Mr. Lecoq, this text, of course wanted by the President of the Republic and presented by the Government, is not by the Prince, but by a unanimous vote of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u184	There was also my vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u185	I know that, honourable Member, and that is why I thanked you. I take this opportunity to greet Roselyne Bachelot and I have a very special thought for the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Today, as has been said, a very beautiful and strong signal has been sent to our friends in Benin and Senegal. Of course, we will continue to work to establish more cultural exchanges with our African friends. This will begin with the work we are doing, as Mrs Kuric reminded us, with the Malagasy authorities on the crown of Queen Ranavalona III. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, MODEM, LT and Agir ens]] We may therefore still have the opportunity to present in the future some exceptions to the inalienability of national collections. Be aware, however, that today the National Assembly has sent an exceptional signal to our African friends. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-FR_2020-10-06-O1009.u186	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Draft law on various provisions for the adaptation of European Union law in economic and financial matters. The meeting is adjourned.
